25-01-2021||India||'Change lifestyle to adapt to climate change': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a change in lifestyles globally as a means to adapt to the disastrous impacts of climate change. Speaking at the Climate Adaptation Summit 2021 being virtually hosted by the Netherlands, PM Modi said, “to adapt to climate change, our lifestyles must also adapt…”“India’s civilizational values teach us that importance of living in harmony with nature. Our ancient scripture Yajurveda teaches us that our relationship with planet earth is that of a mother and her child. If we take care of mother earth, she will continue to nurture us. To adapt to climate change, our lifestyles must also adapt to this ideal,” he said adding that one of the other important measures to adapt to climate change is disaster resilient infrastructure.“I call upon the Global Commission on Adaptation to work with Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) to enhance infrastructure resilience globally. And, I invite all of you to the Third International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure later this year in India,” he said. The Global Adaptation Commission was launched in 2018 to focus on adaptation measures globally. It is overseen by former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation co-chair Bill Gates and World Bank CEO Kristalina Georgieva.“Climate adaptation is more significant today than ever before. And, it is a key element of India’s developmental efforts. We have promised ourselves that we will not just meet our Paris Agreement targets but exceed them; we will not just arrest environmental degradation but reverse it, and we will not just create new capacities but make them an agent for global good,” PM Modi added.Also read: Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consentIndia is targeting 450 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030; promoting LED lights and saving 38 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually. New Delhi is also committed to restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030, among other measures.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an urgent increase in funds for climate change adaptation. He said 50 per cent of the total share of climate finance provided by all donors to be allocated solely to adaptation and resilience building of developing countries.“We are already witnessing unprecedented climate extremes and volatility affecting lives and livelihoods on all continents. According to the World Meteorological Organization, there have been more than 11,000 disasters due to weather, climate and water-related hazards over the past 50 years at a cost of some 3.6 trillion dollars. Extreme weather and climate-related hazards have also killed more than 410,000 people in the past decade, the vast majority in low and lower-middle-income countries. That is why I have called for a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience,” he said.“The recent United Nations Environment Programme Adaptation Gap Report calculates annual adaptation costs in developing countries alone to be in the range of $70 billion. These figures are likely to reach $140-300 billion in 2030 and $280-500 billion in 2050. But huge gaps remain on financing for adaptation in developing countries. That is why I have called for 50 per cent of the total share of climate finance provided by all donors and multilateral development banks to be allocated to adaptation and resilience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-lifestyle-to-adapt-to-climate-change-pm-modi-101611599069878.html
25-01-2021||India||Willing to resign, Nagaland Lokayukta tells SC, seeks protection from state||Nagaland Lokayukta Uma Nath Singh has expressed his willingness to resign as the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman following complaints of impropriety and unjustified personal demands leveled against him by the state government.The suggestion came on a note of paper submitted in the court by senior advocate Vikas Singh who represented the Lokayukta. But the three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde did not receive the note. Even the Advocate General KN Balagopal appearing for Nagaland was served a soft copy of the note during the hearing. The bench decided to post the matter for hearing next week.The note by Lokayukta suggests “unpleasant circumstances” and “hostile environment” as the reason to quit forthwith but “upon dismissal of writ petition (by Nagaland government)”. He further wants no action or proceeding to be initiated against him by the state that could defame him or cause any stigma to his privileges and status as Lokayukta.The state ombudsman even cited a pending criminal case lodged by him against his personal security officer (PSO) and demanded closure of the case. The case related to assault or use of criminal force to stop a public servant from executing his duty, punishable under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 353 and 506 (criminal intimidation). Since the accused was poor and had since apologized, the Lokayukta had agreed for a compromise. Finally, the Lokayukta demanded a graceful exit from the state after submitting his resignation to the Governor.The Nagaland government had come to the apex court in exceptional circumstances for orders to restrain the sitting Lokayukta from hearing any case or exercising his powers or functions under the Nagaland Lokayukta Act, 2017. Justice (Retd) Uma Nath Singh, a former Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court, was appointed Lokayukta of Nagaland on March 13, 2019.The petition pointed out numerous instances to show the “crippling” state of affairs with the Lokayukta engineering documents to show that the Chief Secretary gave him approval to function online from Delhi when no such consent was granted. The counsel for Lokayukta pointed out that he worked online from Delhi due to “meager work” and the extraordinary situation due to Covid-19.On the previous date of hearing, the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had observed, “When there is no dignity in continuing why go through all this and insist to continue at any cost.”The state even told the apex court that the Lokayukta was taking up commercial arbitration work despite a clear prohibition provided under the Lokayukta Act.“In another case he has ordered the Chief Minister to conduct a preliminary enquiry against Deputy Chief Minister which is not permissible under the Act,” the senior advocate added, pointing out that these orders were the result of state denying his demand to occupy the old bungalow used by the state’s Chief Minister.His other demands include exemption from frisking at airports, deployment of army personnel for his protection, presence of Commissioner of Police at his arrival and departure from airport, his photograph to be displayed next to that of the Governor and Chief Minister on the state’s official website among others.The petition said, “The Respondent 1 (Lokayukta) is behaving in a manner that suggests he has become a law unto himself and has no respect for the rule of law and in particular the legislature….this type of maverick decision-making indicates that Respondent 1 is unfit to an office that requires him to lead by example.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-resign-nagaland-lokayukta-tells-sc-seeks-protection-from-state-101611598715563.html
25-01-2021||India||He deserved top medal: Col Santosh Babu's kin disappointed with Maha Vir Chakra||The announcement of Maha Vir Chakra, India's second-highest military award, being awarded to late Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu as part of Republic Day honours, has come as a major disappointment to his family.“We are thoroughly disappointed. I was expecting my son would be conferred the Param Vir Chakra, the highest military award of the country, for the kind of sacrifice he made for the nation,” Santosh Babu’s father Bikumalla Upender, a retired employee of State Bank of India, said.He reminded that Santosh Babu’s sacrifice was not an ordinary one. “He was leading the 16th Bihar battalion under peculiar climatic conditions. In fact, climate was his first enemy at Galwan valley. Yet, he had been stationed there for 13 months, keeping himself physically fit while combating the enemy forces,” he said.Santosh Babu fought the enemy with bare hands, without using any weapons and inflicted heavy casualties and injuries to the enemy. “My son displayed tremendous courage to encounter the Chinese forces, which were in larger numbers. It was because of his bravery that Chinese forces had to beat a retreat,” he said.Also read: Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consentHe claimed that the cunningness of China got exposed internationally only after Colonel Babu’s death. “Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Chinese forces could not occupy even an inch in Galwan valley, thanks to the valiant fight by the Indian armed forces. Who should be credited with it? Was it not my son?” Upender asked and regretted that the Centre chose to honour Santosh Babu only with Maha Vir Chakra, instead of Param Vir Chakra.The late Colonel’s mother Manjula said she was not at all happy to receive the news that her son was conferred Maha Vir Chakra. “I expected the top medal, not this,” she said.She reminded that her son had inspired millions of youth across the country with his brave fight with the enemy on the Indo-China border and stood as a role model for them. “His sacrifice triggered patriotism in every Indian. He deserved the highest military honours,” Manjula said.Asked whether he would write any letter to the Central government in protest, Upender replied in the negative. “No, we don’t want to make it a controversy. We just wanted to express our opinions on the announcement of the award,” he said.Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi, who was appointed as trainee deputy collector in Yadadri Bhongir district and is presently staying in Hyderabad, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-deserved-top-medal-col-santosh-babu-s-kin-disappointed-with-maha-vir-chakra-101611597765436.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Govt announces gallantry award winners. Full list here||The Union home ministry announced a list of gallantry awards on Monday, the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day. Prominent among those who received the awards is Col Santosh Babu, who was killed in a skirmish with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley in une last year. He was awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest wartime gallantry medal.Col Babu was given the award posthumously.The other awardees include those conferred with Paramvir, Mahavir, Ashok and other Chakras. The wartime Chakra series awards include highest Paramvir Chakra, Mahavir Chakra and Vir Chakra. The peacetime highest gallantry awards include Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra.Here's the list of awardees who received these gallantry medals:Mahavir ChakraCol Bikumalla Santosh Babu, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)Vir Chakra1. NB Sub Nuduram Soren, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)2. Hav K Palani, 81 FD Regt (Posthumous)3. Hav Tejinder Singh, 3 Med REGT4. NK Deepak Singh, AMC, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)5. Sep Gurtej Singh, 3 Punjab (Posthumous)Kirti ChakraSub Sanjiv Kumar, 4 Para (SF) (Posthumous)Shaurya Chakra1. Maj Anuj Sood, Guards, 21 RR (Posthumous)2. RFN Pranab Jyoti Das, 6 Assam RIF3. PTR Sonam Tshering Tamang, 4 PARA (SF)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-govt-announces-gallantry-award-winners-full-list-here-101611596050257.html
25-01-2021||India||'India foiled expansionist move in Ladakh': President's veiled dig at China||In a veiled dig at China over the border standoff in Ladakh, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday that India faced "an expansionist move" on its borders which was foiled by the country's valiant soldiers and said 20 of them laid their lives in the violent clash in Galwan Valley.In his address to the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day, the President said India is committed to peace but its forces are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine security and national interest will be protected at all costs.Also Read: Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honours"The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives," he said."The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand," he added.India and China are in a standoff in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) following actions by the Chinese army. Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in Galwan Valley in June last year.The President said that soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions including in Galwan Valley and Siachen.Also Read | Republic Day 2021: Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubramaniam among Padma Vibhushan awardees"Just as our hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius - on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas - our warriors are vigilant every moment," he said."Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-foiled-expansionist-move-in-ladakh-president-s-veiled-dig-at-china-101611595444135.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind says Indian armed forces 'adequately mobilised' to thwart any bid to undermine national security||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday asserted that the country's armed forces are "adequately mobilised" in a "well-coordinated" move to thwart any attempt to undermine national security, and recalled how its valiant soldiers foiled the "expansionist" plans by China in Ladakh last year."Our national interest will be protected at all costs," the President declared in his address to the nation on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day during which he also said every Indian saluted the farmers and sought to allay their fears over the three contentious farm laws.Kovind's remarks came amid the nearly nine-month-long military standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the deadlock between the Centre and the farmer unions over the farm laws enacted in September."The path of reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions but the government is singularly devoted to the farmers' welfare," he said, as the protests by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three laws continues at border points in Delhi.On the country's efforts to fight Covid-19, the President said an effective response to the pandemic would not have been possible without the Constitutional value of 'Fraternity' among the people of the country. He also took pride in the fact that India was called as "pharmacy of the world" for supplying medicines to several countries to alleviate the sufferings across the globe.He felt that after about a year of this "unforeseen ordeal", India today stands "not despondent but confident."Also, he said the slowdown has turned out to be transitory as the economy has regained its dynamism.Kovind urged people to utilise the "lifeline" provided by the Covid-19 vaccine and get inoculated as per guidelines. "Your health opens the way for your advancement."Paying tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh last June during clashes with the Chinese troops, the President said the past year "was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts.""We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives."Kovind said the nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers."Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand," the President said.He said adversity often plays the role of a great teacher and makes people stronger and more confident. With that confidence, India has taken great strides in several sectors."Economic reforms have continued apace and have been supplemented by long-pending reforms in the areas of labour and agriculture through legislation," he added.Paying tributes to the farmers, the President said every Indian salutes our farmers who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products.He said that despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic the farmers sustained the agricultural production."A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers."The President said that like hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions."From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius - on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas - our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers," he said.He also spoke about the scientist community saying that by their contribution to food security, national security, protection against disease and disasters and to different areas of development they have strengthened the national endeavours."From space to the farms, from educational institutions to hospitals, the community of scientists has enriched our life and work. Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity."He said that the scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries."The net outcome of all these efforts is before us."The President said a self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history.He said the administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success."I am sure that this love for humanity and the spirit of sacrifice will take us to great heights. He said let us look at 2020 as a year of learning."Kovind also said India is moving ahead and taking its rightful place in the world."During the recent years, its arc of influence has been expanding and encompassing the larger part of the world. The manner in which India got overwhelming support of the international community for its entry as non-permanent member in the Security Council this year is indicative of that influence."He said the engagement with world leaders has enhanced manifold and India, with its vibrant democracy, has rightfully earned its respect as a responsible and trustworthy nation.He said the call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’ given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was for converting a crisis into an opportunity and is in line with the aspiration to shape a new India by the year 2022 when our country turns 75."This will be a significant milestone in the journey of the nation as we are determined to achieve major goals: from providing pucca houses with basic facilities for every family to doubling the income of farmers. In order to build an inclusive society of new India, we are giving special emphasis on education, health, nutrition, upliftment of the under-privileged and welfare of women," he added.Recalling the thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi for making all efforts to wipe tears from every eye, the President asked people to remember Constitutional mantras -- Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity -- and added that equality is the watchword for the great project of the Republic."Social equality warrants dignity for each one of us, villagers, women, weaker sections of our society, namely, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Divyang-jan and the elderly people. Economic equality entails equal opportunity for all and handholding for the downtrodden."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-says-indian-armed-forces-adequately-mobilised-101611595436325.html
25-01-2021||India||Attending Republic Day ceremony in Delhi compulsory, Govt tells officers||The Centre has mandated that all officers in government ministries and departments invited for the Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath in the national capital on Tuesday must attend the function.In a letter sent to all government ministries and departments dated January 22 Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba also warned "that serious view would be taken against those who fail to do so." HT has reviewed a copy of the letter."The Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath is an important national function held every year on the 26th of January. Considering the importance of this national function, it is expected that all the officers who are invited, attend the Ceremony," the letter said."In view of social distancing requirements imposed due to COVID - 19, the seating capacity this year has been decreased to 25% of the original capacity. It is all the more important, therefore, that the officers who are invited attend the Ceremony as part of their duty. You may suitably advise all officers of your Ministry / Department, who are invited to the Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath to attend the function You may also like to caution them that a serious view would be taken of their absence on this occasion," it added.Officials aware of the development said all officers above the rank of Under Secretary and above had been invited to attend the ceremony on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attending-republic-day-ceremony-in-delhi-compulsory-govt-tells-officers-101611595199251.html
25-01-2021||India||Odisha meets over 92% of Covid-19 vaccination target, leads among all states||A little more than a week after the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, Odisha may have the highest vaccine coverage among the bigger states. The state has achieved over 92 per cent of its vaccination target.Of the 1.92 lakh beneficiaries that were to be vaccinated till January 25, the state has covered 1.77 lakh – 92 per cent of the planned beneficiaries have received the vaccine in the state. While states like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are leading in absolute numbers of vaccination of healthcare workers, Odisha is the leader as far as percentage of targeted beneficiaries is concerned."We managed to cover 92 per cent of the targetted beneficiaries through a smart strategy of targetting more health workers as we realised on January 16 that not all who are being targetted every day would report to the vaccination centre. While we expected some districts to underperform, we made up the deficit by pushing up the target in other districts like Nabrangpur, Mayurbhanj and Puri," said additional chief secretary, health department, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra.Mohapatra said the state also worked around the glitches in the Co-Win app by sending Google sheets to individuals districts for district-wise uploading of vaccination statistics and then updating the same on the app.Also read: 'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh"We also sent SMSes on our own to individual beneficiaries. This helped us in tackling the problem in achieving the target. Unlike other states, where vaccination happened for about 3 days a week, in Odisha it did not stop except on Sunday,” said Mohapatra.Director of Family Welfare, Dr Bijay Kumar Panigrahy, who is in charge of Covid-19 vaccination, said, Odisha's achievement was creditable as its frontline health workers did not halt their other routine activities such as pulse polio and deworming."We could do higher vaccination as private nursing homes were also roped in," he said.Officials said 1.73 lakh of the total 3.5 lakh healthcare workers who are yet to be vaccinated would be given the Covid-19 vaccine shots by February 10. From January 28, the state would speed up daily vaccination so as to complete the target before the deadline."The multipurpose health workers who had initially announced a boycott of the vaccination have now agreed to take the shot. We would start the second dose of the vaccine from February 15, exactly 28 days after the first dose of vaccination was given on January 16," said Panigrahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-meets-over-92-of-covid-19-vaccination-target-leads-among-all-states-101611594955242.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Tarun Gogoi, Ram Vilas Paswan among 10 Padma Bhushan awardees||Former chief minister of Assam Tarun Gogoi and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan were among the 10 people conferred one of the highest civilian awards of India, Padma Bhushan.Prominent Shia preacher and scholar Shri Kalbe Sadiq was the third person to have received the award posthumously this year. He was also the vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board before he passed away in November last year. Sadiq was known to be one of the most reputable Shia cleric in Uttar Pradesh.Former chief minister of Gujarat and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Keshubhai Patel also got the award posthumously. He served as the CM in 1995 and from 1998 to 2001 and was a six-time member of Gujarat Legislative Assembly.Former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan was also conferred the award. Mahajan, a BJP leader, served as the speaker of Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. She was also the longest serving woman Member of Parliament before her retirement from electoral politics.Krishnan Nair Shantakumari Chithra (for Art), Chandrashekhar Kambara (for Literature and Education), Nripendra Misra (for Civil Service), Rajnikant Devidas Shroff (for Trade and Industry) and Tarlochan Singh (for Public Affairs) were the other five awardees.All three Padma awards- the Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri - are conferred on the eve of Republic Day every year by the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-tarun-gogoi-ram-vilas-paswan-among-10-padma-bhushan-awardees-101611592214946.html
25-01-2021||India||Senior officers must attend R-Day event at Rajpath or face action: Govt||The government has conveyed to all officers, who have been invited to attend the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath, to compulsorily attend the event and warned that a serious view would be taken against those who fail to do so.In a communication to all secretary rank officers of the central government, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the seating capacity at the official function at Rajpath has been decreased to just 25 per cent of the original capacity.In his letter, Gauba said the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath is an important national function held every year on January 26 and considering the importance of the ceremony, it is expected that all the officers, who are invited, attend the event."In view of social distancing requirements imposed due to Covid-19, the seating capacity this year has been decreased to 25 per cent of the original capacity. It is all the more important, therefore, that the officers who are invited attend the ceremony as part of their duty."You may suitably advise all officers of your ministry/ department, who are invited to the Republic day ceremony at Rajpath, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view would be taken of their absence on this occasion," the letter said.President Ram Nath Kovind will take the salutes from the armed forces, police, paramilitary forces and others at the Republic day function.The armed forces will display various tanks, missiles and other equipment which will be followed by a vibrant parade comprising tableaux from different states and cultural dances.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his ministerial colleagues, MPs and other dignitaries will attend the event.There will be no chief guest in this year's function as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was invited to attend it, had cancelled his visit due to the growing health crisis in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-officers-must-attend-r-day-event-at-rajpath-or-face-action-govt-101611594943422.html
25-01-2021||India||Full text: President Ram Nath Kovind’s speech on eve of 72nd Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday addressed the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. In his address to the nation, President Kovind thanked the farmers, soldiers, and healthcare workers for their contributions. He also lauded the scientists for their work during the pandemic and urged people to take part in the Covid-19 vaccination programm.Here’s the full text of President Kovind’s speechDear Fellow Citizens,Namaskar!Greetings to all of you on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day of the world’s largest and most vibrant democracy. In this land of ours, enriched by diversity, with many festivals, our national festivals are celebrated by everyone with great patriotic fervour. We celebrate the national festival of the Republic Day with enthusiasm and express our respect for the national flag, and our faith in the Constitution.This day has come to mean a lot to all Indians living within the country and abroad. Seventy-one years ago, on this very day, we the people of India adopted, enacted and gave to ourselves a unique Constitution. For all of us, then, this is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that the Constitution propounds. These values – Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity – outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us. Its abiding adherence is meant not only for those who are mandated to govern but for the people at large.It is not without reason that the wise men and women who framed the Constitution chose to place these four terms at the very beginning of the Constitution to build the foundation on which the edifice of our democracy rests. In fact, these were the values that guided our freedom struggle. A galaxy of great leaders and thinkers like Bal Gangadhar ‘Tilak’, Lala Lajpat Rai, Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose inspired our freedom struggle. They had diverse dreams of a magnificent future of the motherland, but common to their aspirations were these values: Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity.I would like that we go further back into history and inquire why precisely these values guided our nation-builders. And the answer is obvious: This land and its inhabitants have cherished these ideals from the time immemorial. Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life. They come to us from the dawn of this civilisation through an unbroken chain. It is, of course, the task of every generation to seek out the meaning of these values for its times. As the freedom fighters did in their day, so should we in our time. These key principles should light our path to development.Dear fellow citizens,Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the COVID-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained the agricultural production. A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.Just as our hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius – on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas – our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers.By their contribution to food security, national security, protection against disease and disasters and to different areas of development, our scientists have strengthened our national endeavours. From space to the farms, from educational institutions to hospitals, the community of scientists has enriched our life and work. Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity. Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries. Thus, all our farmers, soldiers and scientists deserve special appreciation and a grateful nation greets them on this auspicious occasion of the Republic Day.Dear fellow citizens,Last year, as humanity almost came to a halt in the face of a calamity of gigantic proportions, I often found myself reflecting on the central message of the Constitution. Our effective response to the pandemic would not have been possible without our Constitutional value of ‘Fraternity’. Indians have been like a close-knit family, making exemplary sacrifices to protect each other in the face of the common enemy of Coronavirus. I am thinking here of doctors, nurses, paramedics, healthcare administrators and sanitation workers who put their own lives at risk to care for Covid-19 patients. Some of them even lost their lives. Along with them, about 1.5 lakh people became victims of this pandemic. I convey my condolences to the bereaved families. Our frontline Corona-warriors were ordinary citizens who turned out to be extraordinary. When the history of this tragic chapter, which is not yet over, is written, I am confident that the future generations will behold you all for the heroic response to the crisis for which no one could have truly prepared.Given our country’s population density, diversity of cultural traditions, natural and geographical challenges, taking precautionary measures against Covid-19 was far more difficult for us. Yet, we have managed to check the spread of the virus to a large extent.Despite the serious calamity, we have succeeded in taking forward our activities in many spheres. The pandemic threatened to derail the young generation’s learning process, but institutions and teachers quickly adopted new technology and ensured that there was no break in education. By conducting not only free and fair but also safe elections in Bihar which has high population density and in union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh with difficulties of access and other challenges, our democracy and the Election Commission have accomplished remarkable feats. The Judiciary found help in technology and continued to function and dispense Justice. The list is long.In order to open up the economy without risking the lives of the people, the process of unlocking was carefully calibrated. This has proved effective and the economy has started showing indications of recovery faster than anticipated. The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery. The government has encouraged small and medium industries to unleash entrepreneurial spirit by providing easy loans to them and helped them to come up with innovative business ideas.Dear fellow citizens,The adversities of the previous year have only reminded us of what we have always known deep in our hearts - that care and concern for humanity and the feeling of fraternity is what kept us together for millennia. In every sphere, Indians rose to the occasion, and put others before themselves. We Indians live and die for humanity. This Indian ideal has been expressed by the great poet Maithili Sharan Gupt in these words:उसी उदार की सदा, सजीव कीर्ति कूजती;तथा उसी उदार को, समस्त सृष्टि पूजती।अखण्ड आत्मभाव जो, असीम विश्व में भरे¸वही मनुष्य है कि जो, मनुष्य के लिये मरे।In English, these sentiments can be broadly conveyed in the following words:It is the benevolent whose glory lives on in songs eternal,It is the generous whom the world reveres forever,Whose spirit of oneness fills the boundless universe,They truly are human who die for fellow beings.I am sure that this love for humanity and the spirit of sacrifice will take us to great heights.Let us look at 2020 as a year of learning. There were miracles of a revitalising Mother Nature which taught humanity a hard lesson that the Small is not expedient but complementary to the Big. I am sure that with a view to reducing the risk of such pandemics, the issue of climate change will be accorded top priority at the global level.Dear Fellow Citizens,Converting a crisis into an opportunity, the Prime Minister gave a call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’. Our vibrant democracy, our enterprising and talented fellow citizens – specially the youth – energise our efforts in shaping a self-reliant India. The demand for goods and services in the country, the domestic efforts to meet them, and the use of modern technology in such efforts are strengthening ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Under this Mission, steps have been taken for economic growth as well as employment generation by promoting micro, small and medium enterprises and making the start-up eco-system more robust. It has become a movement being taken forward by the people themselves.‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ is in line with the aspiration to shape a new India by the year 2022 when our country turns 75. This will be a significant milestone in the journey of the nation as we are determined to achieve major goals: from providing pucca houses with basic facilities for every family to doubling the income of farmers. In order to build an inclusive society of new India, we are giving special emphasis on education, health, nutrition, upliftment of the under-privileged and welfare of women.Adversity often plays the role of a great teacher. It makes us stronger and more confident. With that confidence, India has taken great strides in several sectors. Economic reforms have continued apace and have been supplemented by long-pending reforms in the areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. The path to reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it is beyond doubt that the Government remains singularly devoted to farmers’ welfare.Equally salient but touching more lives directly is the comprehensive reform in education which was long overdue. The ‘National Education Policy 2020’, with its stress on tradition as well as technology, will lay the foundation of a New India which aspires to emerge as a knowledge hub on the international stage. This reform promises to incubate innate talent of students and ignite their minds to take up the challenges of life.The net outcome of all these efforts is before us. After about a year of this unforeseen ordeal, India today stands not despondent but confident. The slowdown has turned out to be transitory as the economy has regained its dynamism. A self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history. The administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success. I urge upon the countrymen to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated as per guidelines. Your health opens the way for your advancement.Today, India is being rightly called “pharmacy of the world” as we are supplying medicines and other healthcare items to several countries to alleviate people’s suffering and contain the pandemic across the globe. Now we also provide vaccines to other countries.Dear Fellow Citizens,The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives. The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces – Army, Air Force and Navy – are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India’s firm and principled stand.India is moving forward and taking its rightful place in the world. During the recent years, its arc of influence has been expanding and encompassing the larger part of the world. The manner in which India got overwhelming support of the international community for its entry as non-permanent member in the Security Council this year is indicative of that influence. The quality of our engagement with leaders across the world has enhanced manifold. India with its vibrant democracy has rightfully earned its respect as a responsible and trustworthy nation.We would do well to keep reminding ourselves of our Constitutional mantras. I have said this before, but I will repeat that we should make it a part of our daily routine to meditate upon the life and thought of our Father of the Nation. We must make all efforts to wipe tears from every eye. Equality is the watchword for the great project of our Republic. Social equality warrants dignity for each one of us, villagers, women, weaker sections of our society, namely, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Divyang-jan and the elderly people. Economic equality entails equal opportunity for all and handholding for the downtrodden. Acts of helping fellow human beings expand our capacity for empathy. In our collective path ahead, Fraternity is our moral compass. Let us all continue on the path of ‘constitutional morality’ which Babasaheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar mentioned in his speech to the Constituent Assembly on November 4, 1948 while presenting the draft of the Constitution. He clarified that 'Constitutional morality' means supremacy of the values enshrined in the Constitution.Dear Fellow Citizens,As we are set to celebrate the anniversary of our Republic, I am thinking of our brothers and sisters abroad. Our diaspora is our pride. Indians abroad have succeeded in different walks of life, some rising to high levels of political leadership, some contributing to science, arts, academics, civil society and business, each bringing laurels to their new homelands and also to India. Republic Day greetings to you from the land of your ancestors! My greetings to the members of the armed forces, paramilitary forces and the police who usually celebrate festivals staying away from their families. My special greetings to all those jawans.I once again congratulate you all, for the Republic Day.Thank You,Jai Hind!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-text-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-speech-on-eve-of-72nd-republic-day-101611594533624.html
25-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi wraps up Tamil Nadu campaign; attacks AIADMK, BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrapped his three-day campaign tour of poll-bound Tamil Nadu’s western region capitalising on the ongoing farmers' protest and the state’s view that the ruling AIADMK’s ally, the BJP, is attempting to impose its ideology.In his aggressive campaign, Gandhi on Monday targeted chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and launched attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-RSS combine.“The chief minister is corrupt so he’s being controlled by the prime minister,” said Gandhi during his roadshow in Karur district. “Why is the CBI, the enforcement directorate not investigating the chief minister of Tamil Nadu like it's happening in other states? What is he giving in exchange to Modi? Did the chief minister have the guts to raise questions against demonetisation and GST? The BJP- RSS is controlling Tamil Nadu. The RSS ideology is anti-Tamil,” he said.Later in the day, Gandhi went on a bullock cart and interacted with farmers in a coconut farm in Karur and listened to their grievances. “We are stopping these laws and protecting your interests because these are criminal laws,” the former Congress chief said on the three new farm bills. Gandhi reiterated the NYAY scheme as a "revolutionary idea" promised by the Congress in its 2019 election manifesto to protect the poor.Also read: 5 Galwan heroes get gallantry awards, Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir ChakraSpeaking to reporters regarding Arnab Goswami's leaked Whatsapp chats on the Balakot strike, Gandhi said that it was a breach of Official Secrets Act, 1923. He said that he had spoken on this issue to AK Antony, former defence minister during the UPA regime.“The PM, defence minister, home minister, NSA and the air force chief - those are the five people (who know of a top-secret operation of this nature) according to our UPA defence minister. Now the question is, who of the five people has told this journalist about the Balakot mission,” Gandhi said. “If it is not the prime minister, why has he not ordered an enquiry and said ‘treason has taken place…’ The only reason he’s not done anything is because he is involved in this type of information leak,” he said.Besides farmers, Gandhi met weavers, industrial labourers and MSME representatives and spoke at roadshows to large gatherings in the districts including Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode. These are western regions of the state and the AIADMK's stronghold. Congress’ longstanding ally, the DMK, is working to breach these bastions.The BJP in Tamil Nadu has been countering Gandhi’s comments stating that PM Modi hosted Chinese premier Xi Jinping in Mahabalipuram and often quotes Thirukural. In a bid to connect with Tamil voters, the party went on a ‘vetrivel yatra’ (victorious spear march) across the state where popular Tamil deity Lord Murugan carries the vel (spear).Gandhi will make a series of visits covering across Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-wraps-up-tamil-nadu-campaign-attacks-aiadmk-bjp-101611593603292.html
25-01-2021||India||Wrestler Virender Singh, Zoho founder, Bombay Jayashri among Padma Shri awardees||The Union home ministry on the eve of Republic Day announced the recipients for Padma awards. Padmi Shri has been awarded to 102 people from the fields of medicine, social work, sports, literature and education, trade, sports, public affairs and art.Prominent names in the award list include wrestler Virender Singh who won a bronze medal in the World Wrestling Championship in 1992 at Cali. He also won a silver medal in Commonwealth Championship in 1995 and a Gold Medal in the South Asian Championship (SAF Games).Jitender Singh 'Shunty' who was elected as the Member of Legislative Assembly from Shahdara from Bhartiya Janta Party in 2013 is also in the list of awardees. He is the founder of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Seva Dal, an NGO that helps to cremate unclaimed bodies and immerse the ashes as guided by the Hindu and Sikh religion.Check full list of Padma Shri awardees hereIndustrialists conferred with Padma Shri include Rajnikant Devidas Shroff (UPL Ltd); Rajni Bector (Mrs Bector’s Food Company); P Subramanian (Shanthi Gears) and Sridhar Vembu (Zoho).Sridhar Vembu is an Indian billionaire business magnate and the founder and CEO of Zoho Corporation. According to Forbes, he is the 59th richest Indian in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion as of 2020.Rajni Bector of Mrs Bector Food Specialities, transformed a small ice cream shop she had opened in her backyard into one of the most well-known bakery brands in India. Mrs Bector Food Specialties on December 17 garnered 198 subscriptions to its initial public offering (IPO), generating bids worth ₹40,000 crore and a market value of ₹540 crore. Not just biscuits, Mrs Bector is also the supplier for fast food chains like Burger King and McDonald's."Bombay" Jayashri Ramnath is also in the list of Padma Shri awardees. She is an Indian musician who has sung in multiple languages including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi movies. Born into a family of musicians, Jayashri represents the fourth generation of music practitioners in her family. Trained by Lalgudi Jayaraman and T R Balamani, she is one of the most sought after Carnatic musicians today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-virender-singh-zoho-founder-bombay-jayashri-among-padma-shri-awardees-101611592371379.html
25-01-2021||India||Man attacks 16-year-old girl with knife, held at Varanasi airport||A 16-year-old girl suffered serious injuries in her hand when a 32-year-old man allegedly attacked her with a knife after she turned down his marriage proposal on the outskirts of a village under Sadat police in Ghazipur district on Saturday, police said Monday.A senior police officer said the incident took place when the girl along with a female cousin went out of the village in the morning where Nand Kishore Tiwari attacked the minor causing serious injuries on her hand and head. The accused fled after the girl's cousin raised an alarm and locals rushed to the spot, a police officer said.The officer said the girl's kin informed police and rushed her to a hospital. Thereafter, Ghazipur’s superintendent of police Dr Omprakash Singh reached the spot where locals informed him that the accused was planning to flee to Dubai.The SP then ordered a lookout notice for the accused and sent a team to Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi. The team arrested the accused from the airport when he was about to catch a flight to Dubai on Saturday evening itself."The accused was caught before he could catch a Dubai-bound flight," the SP said.A case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code against Tiwari following a complaint by the girl's father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attacks-16-year-old-girl-with-knife-held-at-varanasi-airport-101611592349761.html
25-01-2021||India||Government says ban on Chinese mobile apps, including Tiktok, would continue||The government has sent notices to Chinese apps, including Tiktok, that the order to block them will be continued. The notice has been issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT after reviewing replies of blocked apps, according to a source who did not wish to be identified. When contacted, Tiktok confirmed to have received a reply from the government. "We are evaluating the notice and will respond to it as appropriate. TikTok was among the first companies to comply with the Government of India directive issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns the government may have. Ensuring the privacy and security of all our users remains to be our topmost priority," a TikTok spokesperson said. The government had blocked 59 Chinese apps in June and 118 more apps, including PUBG mobile game, in September. The Ministry of Information Technology had blocked the apps under section 69A of the Information Technology Act after learning that the apps are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-ban-on-chinese-mobile-apps-including-tiktok-would-continue-101611592589801.html
25-01-2021||India||All you need to know about Padma Vibhushan awardee Maulana Wahiduddin Khan||The Centre on Monday released the list of Padma awards on the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day in which it has honoured 119 people for their achievements and contributions to their respective fields of work.One of the names that is sure to pique interest is that of renowned Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan. He has been given Padma Vibhushan, India's second-highest civilian award, for his exceptional contribution in the field of spiritualism.Khan first shot to limelight when he gave a clarion call to Muslims to relinquish claims over the disputed Babri Masjid site, one the first community leaders to do so.He then floated, along with others, the "Vajpayee Himayat (support) Committee", which had extensively campaigned for the former BJP prime minister in the Lucknow constituency in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections.Khan is known for his association with Vajpayee and his senior colleague in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) L K Advani.Khan has contributed articles to the RSS mouthpiece Organiser which presents him "as an enlightened alternative to Islamic fanaticism" for "reportedly counselling Muslims to abandon their claim on Ayodhya".His verified Facebook page describes the Islamic scholar as, "Maulana Wahiduddin Khan is an Islamic spiritual scholar who has adopted peace as the mission of his life. Known for his Gandhian views, he considers non-violence as the only method to achieve success."He established Centre for Peace and Spirituality (CPS) in 2001 to promote and reinforce the culture of peace. The website of the organisation says the Khan was born in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh in 1925.Padma awards - conferred in Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri categories - are among the highest civilian awards given in various disciplines/fields like art, social work, public affairs, science and engineering, trade and industry, medicine, literature and education, sports, and civil service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-padma-vibhushan-awardee-maulana-wahiduddin-khan-101611591256620.html
25-01-2021||India||Centre asks states to act against those spreading rumours about Covid vaccines||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to states asking them to take penal action against those who are found to be involved in spreading wrong and ill-informed news about the Covid-19 vaccinesIn a letter to chief secretaries of all states on January 19, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that states “must check the spread of such ill-informed rumours, and direct all the concerned authorities under the State Government to take appropriate measures to counter false information about Covid-19 vaccines.”The letter comes in the backdrop of a degree of hesitancy among health workers during the initial phase of vaccination. The letter emphasises the safety of both vaccines ‘‘The National Regulatory Authority in the country has found that the two vaccines, Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by the Bharat Biotech Limited were safe and immunogenic,” it said.“It has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such kind of rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people at large, and there is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” wrote Bhalla.Bhalla asked the chief secretaries to direct all the authorities to disseminate factual messages, adding that “penal action may be taken against the person/s or organisation/s who is/are found to have indulged in such activities, under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-act-against-those-spreading-rumours-about-covid-vaccines-101611591154200.html
25-01-2021||India||Maha Vir Chakra for Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu, Vir Chakra for 5 others||Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar regiment, who was killed during a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last year, will be posthumously awarded with Maha Vir Chakra on Republic Day.Five other soldiers who displayed outstanding courage during the Galwan Valley skirmish with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army have been awarded war-time gallantry awards. While a Maha Vir Chakra was announced for Col Babu on the eve of Republic Day, the other five soldiers have been awarded Vir Chakra. The MVC is India’s second-highest wartime gallantry award followed by the VrC. Four of the VrC have been awarded posthumously.The VrC awardees are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar) (posthumous), Havildar K Palani (81 Field) (P), Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium), Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) (P) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab) (P).Babu’s citation said: “Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to pushback Indian troops. Despite being grievously injured, Colonel Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position.”The soldiers involved in the skirmish had fought off numerically superior Chinese troops at the cost of their own lives in the remote Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020. The infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered.Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades.The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6 pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The squad, however, found that a few tents and an observation post were still intact and the Chinese soldiers had not retreated from PP-14. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.Brigadier Sanal Kumar (retd), who has served in 16 Bihar and later commanded 12 Bihar, “Colonel Babu enjoyed the reputation of being a sane and balanced officer even as a youngster. It reflected in the way he handled the situation in Galwan Valley last year. As the CO of the unit, he could have sent someone else to PP-14. But he went there himself to ensure that things stayed under control. The gallantry awards are a well-deserved recognition of the bravery of Babu and the men who fought under his command.”Brigadier Kumar said Col. Babu and his men were taken by surprise because the PLA had pre-planned the attack. “The PLA only achieved initial surprise. Indian soldiers turned the tide with their courageous actions,” said the Brigadier who retired in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-vir-chakra-for-galwan-braveheart-col-santosh-babu-vir-chakra-for-5-others-101611590632853.html
25-01-2021||India||Kamal Haasan’s MNM promises Singapore-like standards to tackle Chennai floods||Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Monday released a seven-point agenda each for rural and urban governance ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.In urban areas, it includes bringing in Singapore-like standards to mitigate flooding, especially in Chennai, and international standards of traffic management. If elected, the party’s government would support any panchayat or corporation which "adopts international standards in ecological sensitivity to become clean and green with the participation of citizens and NGOs,” the party said in a statement.In rural areas, the MNM has promised salary to panchayat presidents and councillors along with the right to recall elected members in grama sabhas. The functions of the panchayat body will be available online and accessible through apps for the public and an ombudsman at the state and district levels to address issues raised by rural local bodies.The agenda was prepared by the MNM along with a Chennai-based social organisation Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, said actor-politician Kamal Haasan at the video press conference.Also read: 'Constructive talks' India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh“There are several possibilities of corruption and we believe those on a payroll will be answerable and accountable,” said Haasan on their scheme to provide salaries to panchayat working heads.In November, the MNM promised a computer with high-speed internet for every home and a pay for women homemakers for their household work in its seven-point governance and economic agenda.Haasan is campaigning on an anti-corruption poll plank and positioning his fledgeling party as a third front where the ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK are the principal contenders.The MNM was formed in 2018 and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with a 3.7 per cent vote share. Several former bureaucrats and social activists have joined hands with Haasan’s party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-s-mnm-promises-singapore-like-standards-to-tackle-chennai-floods-101611588221266.html
25-01-2021||India||Wrestler Virender Singh among 102 Padma Shri awardees. Check full list here||As many as --- people were conferred with the Padma Shri awards on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. Awardees were recognised for their distinguished service in the fields of arts, sports, social work, public affairs and literature etc.One of the highest civilian awards, the Padma awards are conferred every year by the President since 1954. President Ram Nath Kovind honoured --- people this year with the Padma Vibhushan award and --- were conferred the Padma Bhushan award.The Padma awards, unlike the gallantry awards, are not normally conferred posthumously. However, in highly deserving cases, the Government could consider giving an award posthumously.Here is the full list of people conferred Padma Shri award:﻿Shri Gulfam AhmedArtUttar PradeshMs. P. AnithaSportsTamil NaduShri Rama Swamy AnnavarapuArtAndhra PradeshShri Subbu ArumugamArtTamil NaduShri Prakasarao AsavadiLiterature and EducationAndhra PradeshMs. Bhuri BaiArtMadhya PradeshShri Radhe Shyam BarleArtChhattisgarhShri Dharma Narayan BarmaLiterature and EducationWest BengalMs. Lakhimi BaruahSocial WorkAssamShri Biren Kumar BasakArtWest BengalMs. Rajni BectorTrade and IndustryPunjabShri Peter BrookArtUnited KingdomMs. Sangkhumi BualchhuakSocial WorkMizoramShri Gopiram Bargayn BurabhakatArtAssamMs. Bijoya ChakravartyPublic AffairsAssamShri Sujit ChattopadhyayLiterature and EducationWest BengalShri Jagdish Chaudhary (Posthumous)Social WorkUttar PradeshShri Tsultrim ChonjorSocial WorkLadakhMs. Mouma DasSportsWest BengalShri Srikant DatarLiterature and EducationUnited States of AmericaShri Narayan DebnathArtWest BengalMs. Chutni DeviSocial WorkJharkhandMs. Dulari DeviArtBiharMs. Radhe DeviArtManipurMs. Shanti DeviSocial WorkOdishaShri Wayan DibiaArtIndonesiaShri Dadudan GadhaviLiterature & EducationGujaratShri Parshuram Atmaram GangavaneArtMaharashtraShri Jai Bhagwan GoyalLiterature and EducationHaryanaShri Jagadish Chandra HalderLiterature and EducationWest BengalShri Mangal Singh HazowaryLiterature and EducationAssamMs. Anshu JamsenpaSportsArunachal PradeshMs. Purnamasi JaniArtOdishaMatha B. Manjamma JogatiArtKarnatakaShri Damodaran KaithapramArtKeralaShri Namdeo C KambleLiterature and EducationMaharashtraShri Maheshbhai & Shri Nareshbhai Kanodia (Duo) *(Posthumous)ArtGujaratShri Rajat Kumar KarLiterature and EducationOdishaShri Rangasami Lakshminarayana KashyapLiterature and EducationKarnatakaMs. Prakash KaurSocial WorkPunjabShri Nicholas KazanasLiterature and EducationGreeceShri K KesavasamyArtPuducherryShri Ghulam Rasool KhanArtJammu and KashmirShri Lakha KhanArtRajasthanMs. Sanjida KhatunArtBangladeshShri Vinayak Vishnu KhedekarArtGoaMs. Niru KumarSocial WorkDelhiMs. LajwantiArtPunjabShri Rattan LalScience and EngineeringUnited States of AmericaShri Ali ManikfanOthers-Grassroots InnovationLakshadweepShri Ramachandra ManjhiArtBiharShri Dulal MankiArtAssamShri Nanadro B MarakOthers- AgricultureMeghalayaShri Rewben MashangvaArtManipurShri Chandrakant MehtaLiterature and EducationGujaratDr. Rattan Lal MittalMedicinePunjabShri Madhavan NambiarSportsKeralaShri Shyam Sundar PaliwalSocial WorkRajasthanDr. Chandrakant Sambhaji PandavMedicineDelhiDr. J N Pande(Posthumous)MedicineDelhiShri Solomon PappaiahLiterature and Education- JournalismTamil NaduMs. PappammalOthers- AgricultureTamil NaduDr. Krishna Mohan PathiMedicineOdishaMs. Jaswantiben Jamnadas PopatTrade and IndustryMaharashtraShri Girish PrabhuneSocial WorkMaharashtraShri Nanda PrustyLiterature and EducationOdishaShri K K Ramachandra PulavarArtKeralaShri Balan PutheriLiterature and EducationKeralaMs. Birubala RabhaSocial WorkAssamShri Kanaka RajuArtTelanganaMs. Bombay Jayashri RamnathArtTamil NaduShri Satyaram ReangArtTripuraDr. Dhananjay DiwakarSagdeoMedicineKeralaShri Ashok Kumar SahuMedicineUttar PradeshDr. Bhupendra Kumar Singh SanjayMedicineUttarakhandMs. Sindhutai SapkalSocial WorkMaharashtraShri Chaman Lal Sapru(Posthumous)Literature and EducationJammu and KashmirShri Roman SarmahLiterature and Education- JournalismAssamShri Imran ShahLiterature and EducationAssamShri Prem Chand SharmaOthers- AgricultureUttarakhandShri Arjun Singh ShekhawatLiterature and EducationRajasthanShri Ram Yatna ShuklaLiterature and EducationUttar PradeshShri Jitender Singh ShuntySocial WorkDelhiShri Kartar Paras Ram SinghArtHimachal PradeshShri Kartar SinghArtPunjabDr. Dilip Kumar SinghMedicineBiharShri Chandra Shekhar SinghOthers-AgricultureUttar PradeshMs. Sudha Hari Narayan SinghSportsUttar PradeshShri Virender SinghSportsHaryanaMs. Mridula Sinha(Posthumous)Literature and EducationBiharShri K C Sivasankar(Posthumous)ArtTamil NaduGuru Maa Kamali SorenSocial WorkWest BengalShri Marachi SubburamanSocial WorkTamil NaduShri P Subramanian(Posthumous)Trade and IndustryTamil NaduMs. Nidumolu SumathiArtAndhra PradeshShri Kapil TiwariLiterature and EducationMadhya PradeshFather Vallés(Posthumous)Literature and EducationSpainDr. Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan(Posthumous)MedicineTamil NaduShri Sridhar VembuTrade and IndustryTamil NaduShri K Y VenkateshSportsKarnatakaMs. Usha YadavLiterature and EducationUttar PradeshCol Quazi Sajjad Ali ZahirPublic AffairsBangladesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-virendra-singh-among-102-padma-shri-awardees-check-full-list-101611573811611.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubramaniam among Padma Vibhushan awardees||The government announced the list of Padma awards on Monday, on the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day. This year, the government has chosen seven people for Padma Vibhushan, India's second-highest civilian award.Among these seven is former prime minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe, who has been given the award for his achievements in Public Affairs.The other recipients are noted singer S P Balasubramaniam, who passed away last year. He was 74. The singer was admitted to hospital after he contracted Covid-19, but later tested negative. Balasubramaniam suffered a cardio- respiratory arrest which led to his death in September last year.Dr Belle Monappa Hegde has been given Padma Bhushan in Medicine, Narinder Singh Kapany (Posthumously) in Science and Engineering, Maulana Wahiduddin Khan in spiritualism, B B Lal in Archaeology and Sudarshan Sahoo in Art.All these people have made exceptional contributions in their respective fields.The Padma awards are conferred by the President on the eve of Republic Day every year.These awards were instituted in the year 1954 and are conferred in three categories - Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri.Even though these awards do not amount to a title and cannot be used as a suffix or prefix to the awardees’ name, the recipients are given a small replica of the medallion, which they can wear during any ceremonial or state functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-shinzo-abe-sp-balasumramaniam-among-padma-vibhushan-awardees-101611589791724.html
25-01-2021||India||Ram Vilas Paswan among 10 Padma Bhushan awardees. See full list here||The government has announced the list of awardees for Padma Bhushan, conferred every year by the President on the eve of Republic Day.The winners of this award are recognised for their distinguished service of a high order and it is one of the highest civilian awards being conferred since 1954.The other two Padma awards - Padma Vibhushan and Padma Shri - have also been conferred by the President.The recipients of these awards are given a small replica of the medallion, which they can wear during any state functions etc. The names of the awardees are published in the Gazette of India on the day of the presentation ceremony.Here is the full list of Padma Bhushan awardees for 2021:Ms. Krishnan Nair Shantakumari Chithra- Art- KeralaShri Tarun Gogoi (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- AssamShri Chandrashekhar Kambara- Literature and Education- KarnatakaMs. Sumitra Mahajan- Public Affairs- Madhya PradeshShri Nripendra Misra- Civil Service- Uttar PradeshShri Ram Vilas Paswan (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- BiharShri Keshubhai Patel (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- GujaratShri Kalbe Sadiq (Posthumous)- Others-Spiritualism- Uttar PradeshShri Rajnikant Devidas Shroff- Trade and Industry- MaharashtraShri Tarlochan Singh- Public Affairs- Haryana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-among-10-padma-bhushan-awardees-see-full-list-here-101611573503471.html
25-01-2021||India||Former Japan PM Shinzo Abe among 7 Padma Vibhushan awardees. See full list here||The Padma Awards, one of the highest civilian awards conferred by the President on the eve of Republic Day every year, have been announced.These awards were instituted in the year 1954 and are conferred in three categories- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri. Even though these awards do not amount to a title and cannot be used as a suffix or prefix to the awardees’ name, the recipients are given a small replica of the medallion, which they can wear during any ceremonial or state functions.The Padma Vibhushan is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service. This year, seven people have been honoured with this award.Here is the full list:Shri Shinzo Abe- Public Affairs- JapanShri S P Balasubramaniam (Posthumous)- Art- Tamil NaduDr. Belle Monappa Hegde- Medicine- KarnatakaShri Narinder Singh Kapany (Posthumous)- Science and Engineering- United States of AmericaMaulana Wahiduddin Khan- Others- Spiritualism- DelhiShri B. B. Lal- Others- Archaeology- DelhiShri Sudarshan Sahoo- Art- Odisha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-former-japan-pm-shinzo-abe-among-7-padma-vibhushan-awardees-101611572866725.html
25-01-2021||India||India successfully tests new gen Akash missile||India on Monday announced that it successfully test-fired the Akash-NG (new generation) surface-to-air missile for the first time off the Odisha coast.Akash-NG missile has been designed to strike low radar cross-section aerial targets. It weighs only half of the existing Akash missile and requires fewer ground systems, officials familiar with the project said.The existing Akash missile has a range of 25 km, while the upgraded variant (NG) can strike targets at a distance of 30 km, officials said.“Akash-NG is a new generation surface-to-air missile meant for use by Indian Air Force with an aim of intercepting high maneuvering low radar cross-section aerial threats,” the defence ministry said in a statement.The weapon was tested by the Defence Research and Development Organisation.The missile intercepted the target with precision, officials said. “The launch met all the test objectives by performing high maneuvers during the trajectory. The performance of the command and control systems, onboard avionics and aerodynamic configuration of the missile was successfully validated during the trial,” statement said.The Akash-NG system has been developed with better deployability compared to other similar systems with canisterised launcher and much smaller ground system footprint, it added.The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on December 30 gave its go-ahead to the sale of Akash surface-to-air missile systems to friendly foreign countries and created a high-powered panel for swifter approval to export of military hardware at a time India has set a target of clocking defence exports worth $5 billion by 2024.The missile --- already in service in the Indian military --- has an indigenous content of 96%. The missile was inducted into the Indian Air Force in 2014 and in the army a year later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-tests-new-gen-akash-missile-101611587766511.html
25-01-2021||India||‘Let us look at 2020 as year of learning’: President Kovind’s top 10 quotes||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday addressed the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. In his address to the nation, he thanked the farmers, soldiers, and healthcare workers for their contributions during the difficult year. He also said the government is completely committed to the betterment of farmers. He lauded the scientists for decoding the coronavirus and bringing the vaccine out in such short time. He also urged people to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Here are the top 10 quotes from President Kovind's address: On Constitution“Seventy-one years ago, on this very day, we the people of India adopted, enacted and gave to ourselves a unique Constitution. For all of us, then, this is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that the Constitution propounds. These values – Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity – outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us. Its abiding adherence is meant not only for those who are mandated to govern but for the people at large.”On farmers“Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained the agricultural production. A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.”On soldiers“The brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius – on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas – our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers.”On scientists“Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity. Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries.”On frontline workers“Our frontline Corona-warriors were ordinary citizens who turned out to be extraordinary. When the history of this tragic chapter, which is not yet over, is written, I am confident that the future generations will behold you all for the heroic response to the crisis for which no one could have truly prepared.”On Coronavirus pandemic“Despite the serious calamity, we have succeeded in taking forward our activities in many spheres. The pandemic threatened to derail the young generation’s learning process, but institutions and teachers quickly adopted new technology and ensured that there was no break in education.”On economy“The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery. The government has encouraged small and medium industries to unleash entrepreneurial spirit by providing easy loans to them and helped them to come up with innovative business ideas.”On self reliant India“Converting a crisis into an opportunity, the Prime Minister gave a call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’. Our vibrant democracy, our enterprising and talented fellow citizens – specially the youth – energise our efforts in shaping a self-reliant India. The demand for goods and services in the country, the domestic efforts to meet them, and the use of modern technology in such efforts are strengthening ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Under this Mission, steps have been taken for economic growth as well as employment generation by promoting micro, small and medium enterprises and making the start-up eco-system more robust. It has become a movement being taken forward by the people themselves.”On coronavirus vaccination programme“A self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history. The administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success. I urge upon the countrymen to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated as per guidelines. Your health opens the way for your advancement.”On Indian disapora“As we are set to celebrate the anniversary of our Republic, I am thinking of our brothers and sisters abroad. Our diaspora is our pride. Indians abroad have succeeded in different walks of life, some rising to high levels of political leadership, some contributing to science, arts, academics, civil society and business, each bringing laurels to their new homelands and also to India. Republic Day greetings to you from the land of your ancestors!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-us-look-at-2020-as-year-of-learning-president-kovind-s-top-10-quotes-101611587930965.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bose's grand nephew tweets original photo amid portrait row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Subhas Chandra Bose's grand nephew tweets original photoThe grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandra Kumar Bose, on Monday took to Twitter to clarify the claims on the portrait unveiled by the President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday that said the portrait is that of Prosenjit Chatterjee, the actor who played the role of Netaji in his biopic "Gumnami". Read moreBJP has insulted Bengal and Netaji, says Mamata BanerjeeSharpening her attack against the Bharaitya Janata Party over the Victoria Memorial controversy of January 23, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that it was an insult to Bengal and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Read more'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in LadakhThe Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) agreed to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops at frictions areas on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of military talks held on Sunday. Read moreDr Anthony Fauci reveals ‘disturbing’ incidents under Trump administrationThe presidential years of Donald Trump ended on January 20 amid raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and people who worked in the administration have started opening up about the handling of the health crisis. Read moreChelsea sack manager Frank LampardChelsea FC on Monday announced the sacking of manager Frank Lampard despite the club advancing to FA Cup 5th round following a 3-1 win over Luton on Sunday. Chelsea have won only one out their last five Premier League games and are currently placed at the 9th position with 29 points in 19 games. Read moreVarun Dhawan's 'chilled out bride' Natasha Dalal got her wedding makeup done in 35 mins, says artist Namrata SoniHair and makeup artist Namrata Soni has shared a video of Varun Dhawan's bride, Natasha Dalal, getting ready for her wedding. The couple tied the knot on Sunday in Alibaug. Read moreLet it snow: English zoo turns into winter wonderland due to snowfall. Pictures are ‘winterful’Snowfall in parts of England transformed ZSL Whipsnade Zoo, in Dunstable, into a winter wonderland. The zoo shared pictures of this unique occurrence on its official Instagram account on January 24. To say that images are 'winterful’ to look at would be an understatement. Read moreWatch: Routes to avoid as farmers gear up for tractor rally on Republic DayFarmers are all set to hold their tractor rally in the capital on Republic Day. Preparations have been made by the authorities who are keeping a tight vigil to avoid any untoward incident. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bose-s-grand-nephew-tweets-original-photo-amid-row-101611586192123.html
25-01-2021||India||Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honours||Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar battalion, who led soldiers to evict Chinese soldiers from East Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last June, has been posthumously named for Mahavir Chakra, India’s second-highest military award for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of the enemy, an official announcement by the Defence Ministry said on Monday.The government also named four other soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the Galwan operation for the gallantry awards announced on the eve of the Republic Day parade. The four Vir Chakra awardees, also posthumous, are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar), Havildar K Palani (81 Field), Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium), Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab).The bloody Galwan clash was the first deadly conflict between India and China in at least 45 years and was seen to underline the risk of the border standoff escalating into a full-scale confrontation. The news of the Republic Day honours for the Galwan bravehearts came hours after a fourth clash between Indian and Chinese troops in the last year was reported from north Sikkim.Twenty Indian soldiers including Col Santosh Babu were killed in the seven-hour-long clash that at its peak involved more than 600 rival soldiers. China acknowledged the PLA suffered casualties in the violent scrap but didn’t give any figures.Also Read: Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plansThe Indian Army, based on intelligence inputs and communication intercepts, believes the PLA lost at least 50 soldiers including the commanding officer of the battalion concerned.India’s national security planners believe PLA soldiers, who had come prepared with clubs wrapped with barbed-wire and spears, had hoped to wrest control of Galwan Valley from India. But they were evicted by the Indian soldiers in the operation listed in army records as Operation Snow Leopard.A majority of the casualties on both sides were caused by hypothermia when soldiers were pushed off the cliff into the freezing Galwan river.Also Read: How the Galwan Valley tragedy can transform Himalayan geopoliticsPrime Minister Narendra Modi who had travelled to Ladakh soon after the Galwan clash had lauded the courage of soldiers who repelled the Chinese aggression. “Bharat Mata’s enemies have seen your fire and fury,” PM Modi had said.A memorial was also built for the soldiers who laid down their lives. According to the inscription at the memorial: “The (Indian Army’s) column successfully evicted the PLA OP from Y Nala and reached Patrolling Point 14 where a fierce skirmish broke out between the Indian Army and PLA troops. Col B Santosh Babu led from the front and his troops fought gallantly in hand-to-hand combat, causing heavy casualties to the PLA”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-braveheart-col-santosh-babu-named-for-mahavir-chakra-in-r-day-honours-101611569683269.html
25-01-2021||India||1 pilot killed, another seriously injured as Army helicopter crash lands in J-K||A pilot of the Indian Army was killed and another was critically injured after an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH)--Dhruv crash landed in Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir Monday evening, A Defence spokesman said.The co-pilot, who has been put on ventilator, is critical.Earlier Kathua district police chief, SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “A Dhruv helicopter of the Army crash landed near Lakhanpur. Two Army pilots have been injured in the incident. They have been evacuated to military base hospital in Pathankot.”The incident occurred around 7.15 pm.In October 2019 a Dhruv helicopter of the Indian Army carrying the then chief of the force’s Northern Command Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh and other officers had made an emergency landing following a technical glitch in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch.The army’s Dhruv Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) with Lt Gen Ranbir Singh and six other officers on board was on a sortie from Udhampur to Poonch when it developed a technical snag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-helicopter-crash-lands-in-j-k-both-pilots-injured-101611585328788.html
25-01-2021||India||'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) agreed to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops at frictions areas on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of military talks held on Sunday.“They also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the corps commander-level meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation,” a joint statement stated.Indian and Chinese military commanders held the ninth round of talks to defuse LAC tensions at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the LAC.“The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilize and control the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity,” the joint statement said.Also read: Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of 'leaking information' about Balakot air strikeThe statement added that the two sides had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views” on disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of India-China border areas. “The two sides agreed that this round of meeting was positive, practical and constructive, which further enhanced mutual trust and understanding,” it added. The ninth round of talks went on for 16 hours. Senior Indian and Chinese commanders had met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks. Until now, the Chinese side was insisting that the Indian Army first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration. On January 12, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-push-for-early-disengagement-in-ladakh-101611584277273.html
25-01-2021||India||Amid row over portrait, grand nephew tweets Subhas Chandra Bose's original photo||The grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandra Kumar Bose, on Monday took to Twitter to clarify the claims on the portrait unveiled by the President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday that said the portrait is that of Prosenjit Chatterjee, the actor who played the role of Netaji in his biopic "Gumnami".This is the original photograph of #NetajiSubhasChandraBose, based on which renowned artist Shri #PareshMaity has drawn the portrait which was unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan on 23 Jan 2021, by Hon’ble President of India-Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji. @rashtrapatibhvn @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/WTOHqtgs3p"This is the original photograph of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, based on which renowned artist Shri Paresh Maity has drawn the portrait which was unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan on 23 Jan 2021, by Hon’ble President of India-Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji," the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said along with a picture of the freedom fighter.Also Read | In poll-bound Bengal, politics overshadows Netaji’s birth anniversaryAmong those who had questioned the portrait, which was recently unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhawan, was Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra. "After donating ₹5 lakhs to the Ram temple the President honors Netaji by unveiling a portrait of Prasenjit, the actor who played him in biopic God Save India (because this government certainly can't)," she said in the tweet which has now been deleted.Social media was abuzz with the tweets and memes on the resemblance of the portrait with the actor.Storm in a tea cup. 1. Portrait of Netaji by Paresh Maity based on his original photo. 2. Prosenjit as Netaji. 1. , 2. pic.twitter.com/cJTIGpZmeqProsenjit Chatterjee had also tweeted congratulating the artist Paresh Maity for the making the wonderful piece of art.Would like to congratulate Paresh Maity for the wonderful piece of art in remembrance of our National hero Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. As an Actor,I’m elated that people thought,that the painting resembles my character in Gumnami,dir. by @srijitspeaketh and prosthetics by Somnath pic.twitter.com/HBkXvwFFSwSome people asked for Ajay Devgan's portrait as Bhagat Singh, Vivek Oberoi for Narendra Modi and Ben Kingsley for Mahatama Gandhi.All these actors had played the role of the respective leaders in the biopics dedicated to them.The President of India unveiled the portrait at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji on January 23. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, Netaji's birth anniversary will be observed as 'Parakram Diwas' every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-over-portrait-grand-nephew-tweets-subhas-chandra-bose-s-original-photo-101611581134216.html
25-01-2021||India||'Salute farmers, committed to their welfare': President Kovind in address to nation on eve of Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind highlighted the challenges faced by the country in the year gone by, and hailed the steps taken by the government to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus crisis in his speech on the eve of 72nd Republic Day.He said that India is enriched by diversity where many festivals are celebrated across the country."This is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that Constitution propounds. These values - Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity - outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us," said President Kovind.He took the opportunity to "salute" the farmers of the country who have made India self-reliant in foodgrain and dairy products."Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in foodgrain and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained agricultural production," the President said in his annual address.He said that the government and entire nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.He also made a special mention about the healthcare and frontline workers who took the coronavirus disease head on, and hailed the contribution made by the scientists of the country in developing a vaccine."Our scientists created history by decoding the coronavirus and developing a vaccine in such a short time," said the President, adding, "Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators & people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries."He then talked about the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between Indian nd Chinese soldiers in Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives. The skirmish on June 15 also causes casualties on the Chinese side."Past year was a time of adversity and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives. The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers," President Kovind said.He then highlighted the steps taken by the central government to revive the econokmy battered by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salute-farmers-committed-to-their-welfare-president-ram-nath-kovind-101611583242625.html
25-01-2021||India||SC gives green signal to local elections in AP, poll panel revises schedule||In a setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, the Supreme Court on Monday gave the green signal to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar to conduct gram panchayat elections in the state in February.A two-member division bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the special leave petition filed by the Jagan government seeking to stall the process initiated by the SEC for the gram panchayat elections in the state.The apex court ordered that the elections for the gram panchayats in the state be held as scheduled and there was no need for postponing the elections indefinitely on the pretext of Covid-19 vaccination drive.“Vaccination is no hurdle for the conduct of elections. The SEC is empowered to conduct the local body elections and the court cannot interfere in its powers,” the Supreme Court bench said.The bench asserted that it would not allow the Constitutional breakdown in the state, as the conduct of elections was part of the Constitutional process. The bench wondered whether elections were not held anywhere in the country.“When there was a coronavirus situation, you wanted elections. Why are you opposing it? You cannot attribute motives to the SEC,” the court asked the government.The court also dismissed a batch of petitions filed by the various employees’ associations seeking to implead themselves in the case, opposing the election process. “This is against the law. In what way are the government employees concerned with the decision? They have no business to intervene in the dispute between two constitutional systems,” the bench said.On January 8, Kumar released the schedule of elections to gram panchayats in four phases – February 5, 9, 13 and 17. The notification was issued on January 23 and the nomination process was to commence on Monday.The state government had challenged the schedule in the state high court and on January 11, a single judge bench of the high court cancelled the election process. When the SEC filed a review petition before the high court, a division bench headed by chief justice A K Goswami on January 21 ordered that the elections be held as per the schedule. This was challenged by the Jagan government in the Supreme Court, which gave its verdict on Monday.The nomination process for the phase-1 of gram panchayat elections which was scheduled to begin at 10.30 am on Monday, could not take place, as the district collectors and district panchayat officers refused to start the process as there were no instructions from the state government.The SEC in a statement said no arrangements were made to receive nominations. “The district administrators did not commence the process for phase-1 elections, stating that they were awaiting instructions from the government, thereby vitiating the election process,” he said.Soon after the Supreme Court gave the green signal for the panchayat elections, Kumar announced reschedule of the gram panchayat elections. The phase-I elections will now become phase-IV elections, to be held on February 21, nominations for which would begin from February 10.“As a result, the Phase-II, Phase-III and Phase-IV Gram Panchayat elections will now be rescheduled as Phase-I, Phase-II and Phase-III respectively. The nomination process for the revised phase-I elections will begin on January 29,” he said.The SEC also wrote to the state government to use the services of the Central government employees and also those of Central public sector undertakings for election related responsibilities, if necessary, in case there is non-cooperation from the state government employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-green-signal-to-local-elections-in-ap-poll-panel-revises-schedule-101611582600543.html
25-01-2021||India||Soon, Centre to impose 'green tax' on older vehicles||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday approved a proposal to levy a “Green Tax” on vehicles older than eight years at the time of renewal of fitness certificate. The proposal will be sent to states and Union territories for their comments before being formally notified.The revenue collected through the tax will be used for tackling pollution, the transport ministry said in a statement.Gadkari also approved the policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles owned by government department and PSU above 15 years. It will be notified and come into effect from April 1, 2022.The main principles to be followed while levying the 'green tax' includes; transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10 to 25 per cent of the road tax, personal vehicles to be charged 'green tax' at the time of renewal of Registration Certification (RC) after 15 years while public transport vehicles, such as city buses, to be charged lower.Also read: China tries to open new front with Naku La clash, test India’s defence - ExpertsThe government has also proposed higher tax (50 per cent of the road tax) for vehicles registered in highly polluted cities.“Differential tax, depending on fuel (petrol/diesel) and type of vehicle; vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol, LPG etc to be exempted,” the ministry noted.Vehicles used in farming, such as tractor, harvester, tiller etc., will also be exempted. The revenue collected from the 'green tax' will be kept in a separate account and used for tackling pollution, and for states to set up state-of-art facilities for emission monitoring, the ministry stated.The ministry of road transport and highways, in its long-pending draft vehicle scrappage policy, also stated it will include a waiver in registration fee and reduced road tax by states for vehicles purchased against scrapping certificates by scrapping old vehicles in an environment friendly and scientific manner.The features of the draft policy were listed and discussed by the ministry at the 40th meeting of the transport development council, chaired by Gadkari on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-centre-to-impose-green-tax-on-older-vehicles-101611581909359.html
25-01-2021||India||No senior Shiv Sena leader at farmers’ rally in Mumbai||Even as senior leaders of prominent political parties joined the gathering of farmers' in Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday, the Shiv Sena sent a youth wing functionary as the party's representative.While senior leaders of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Agahdi (MVA) including Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, the Sena sent Rahul Londhe, its youth wing functionary to the farmers’ rallyThe Sena has backed the farmers' protests in New Delhi for the past two months. The ruling party in Maharashtra also supported the farmer's march from Nashik and other parts of the State to Mumbai to protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. However, when it came to showing physical presence on Monday, it failed do so.According to Ajit Nawale, Maharashtra general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray was expected to be present at the public meeting. Instead, he was in Kalyan, about 60 km from Mumbai's Azad Maidan, to inaugurate a railway over bridge. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the over bridge via video conferencing from Matoshree, his private residence in Bandra east.Following the inauguration, Aaditya Thackeray clarified that the Shiv Sena stands fully in support of the farmers. He said that the media should question Centre on why it was not agreeing to the demands of the farmers who have been protesting for the past 60 days."Instead of seeing who went (to the protest site), I think one should look at if the Centre has paid heed to the demands From the Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi, Pawar saheb is indeed leading it, chief minister is speaking on it, I appeal to all the people that masking is important at such protests and rallies. These are Covid times. Shiv Sena is fully supporting the farmers. But the important thing is that even after 60 days the Union government has not yielded to the demands of the farmers. You (media) should ask these questions," Thackeray told reporters when questioned why no party leader was present at the public meeting.Sena leader Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment despite several attempts. Sena MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant said that he was out of Mumbai and unaware of the happenings in the city.The Sena's stand was inconsistent when the three farm bills were passed in the Parliament The party which has 18 MPs in Lok Sabha, had backed the bills but it walked out of the Rajya Sabha during voting in the Upper House The Congress and NCP, its allies in Maharashtra, had opposed the Bills in both the Houses."Shiv Sena doesn't have any cohesive thinking on economic policy or on agriculture or industries. They only make general statements and this has been since the times of Bal Thackeray. I do not think they understand the seriousness of the issue. It must be embarrassing for the party naturally, but it will not create any fissures in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi," said political analyst Prakash Bal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-senior-shiv-sena-leaders-at-farmers-rally-in-mumbai-101611580218126.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi could be heading towards attaining 'herd immunity' against Covid-19, indicates latest sero-survey||The outcome of the fifth round of sero-prevalence survey in the national capital has indicated that Delhi population could be heading towards attaining herd immunity against coronavirus infection, sources said on Monday.The survey has found that in one district, 50-60 per cent of the sampled population has developed antibodies to Covid-19, they said.For the survey, which ended a few days ago, samples of over 25,000 people from various districts across the city were collected, the officials said.Delhi's population is over two crore, spread across 11 districts."In one district, the sero-prevalence rate is between 50-60 per cent, indicating a large number of people have developed antibodies, so we can say the city is moving towards attaining herd immunity," a source said without disclosing the name of the district.Experts say herd immunity is said to have been developed in a population segment if 50-60 per cent of those are found to have the presence of antibodies in a sero-prevalence survey.Herd immunity implies that in any set of people in a community, after becoming affected by the virus, a lot many of them become immune to it, on account of antibodies developed in response to it. And, hence, such people become a protective layer between the infected person and unaffected people, thereby breaking the chain of viral transmission.This is the fifth such exercise that was conducted here, but the Delhi government has not given any official version on it.The first sero-prevalence, done from June 27-July 10 by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had used 21,387 samples and found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had an exposure to the novel coronavirus.The exercise in August showed 29.1 per cent people had antibodies. Also, 79 of 257 people who had tested Covid-19 positive and then recovered, and were part of the sero-prevalence survey done in the first week of August, however, did not have the antibodies against the virus, according to a report released later.In the survey in September and October, the figures stood at 25.1 per cent and 25.5 per cent in October.The exercises were undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and to formulate strategies based on its findings.Delhi recorded 185 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the third time the daily incidence count stood below the 200-mark in January, even as the positivity was recorded at 0.30 per cent.Health Minister Satyendar Jain recently said the pandemic situation in the city is now under control.The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.33 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,808 with nine new fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-could-be-heading-towards-attaining-herd-immunity-against-covid-19-indicates-latest-serosurvey-101611579960623.html
25-01-2021||India||Day before tractor rally, farmers announce plan to march towards Parliament on Feb 1||A day before taking out a tractor rally, the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws on Monday announced their plans to intensify their agitation."On February 1, we will march on foot towards Parliament in Delhi from different locations," said Darshan Pal from the Krantikari Kisan Union, one of the nearly 40 groups protesting near Delhi. The stir has been going on for two months now.To put pressure on the government to withdraw these laws, the farmers have adopted different techniques since their protest launched on November 26. In December, they had organised a nationwide strike, blocking key roads in cities across the country.The protesters have been engaged in talks with the government, and so far 11 rounds have been held but the deadlock is still continuing.Tuesday's tractor rally is also the farmers' plan to intensify their agitation. The police in Delhi have made elaborate arragements for the rally, which the farmers have assured will be peaceful.The farmers are camping along three border points near Delhi - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - and have said they won’t leave until the government rolls back what they call the “black laws”. The Centre has categorically said that the laws won't be repealed; it has, however, agreed to suspend its impelentation for one-and-a-half years.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Monday that this is the best offer and the farmers should reconsider.The government has said that the three laws pased in September are meant to overhaul procurement procedures and grant them more options to sell their produce. But the farmers say that these laws will hurt farm incomes and leave them vulnerable to big corporations.The three farm laws are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-march-towards-parliament-on-budget-day-101611579496493.html
25-01-2021||India||Best offer given to farmers, says minister Tomar, adds stir will end soon||Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that the farmers' agitation would end soon, adding that the government's proposal to suspend the farm laws for 1 to 1.5 years is the “best offer” and the farmers should reconsider it, reported news agency PTI."The government has given the best offer to farmers' unions. I am hopeful that they will convey their decision to us after discussing it among themselves. Once they communicate, we will take it forward," he said.Also Read | 'Sanctity lost': 5 things Narendra Singh Tomar said on farmers' protest"Anyone can express dissent if they disagree. When we saw that some farmers, although their number isn't very high, were protesting against the farm laws, we thought that we must find a solution via dialogue and we still hope that issue will be resolved," he said.Eleven rounds of talks between the protesting farmers and the government have been inconclusive. In the 10th round, the government had offered a proposal to keep the new laws on hold for 1 to 1.5 years. After it was rejected by the farmers, the government asked them to reconsider it in the 11th round.Also Read: Sure farmers’ leaders will ‘actively arrive’ at a solution: Union minister TomarWhile the minister didn't comment on whether there would be a next round of talks, he said he would be ready to meet the farmers to hear out their final decision on the government's offer.Commenting on the Kisan Tractor Rally that the farmers are planning to organise on Republic Day, Tomar said, "They (farmers) could have chosen any other day instead of January 26 but they have announced it now. Farmers would have to ensure that the rally is conducted peacefully, without accidents. This is a concern for the police administration as well."Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws is scheduled to hold its second round of consultations with farmers and agricultural organisations on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-offer-given-to-farmers-says-minister-tomar-adds-stir-will-end-soon-101611577394581.html
25-01-2021||India||Apni Party seeks PM Modi’s intervention to restore J-K's statehood, 4G links||Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Sunday evening met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and presented a memorandum highlighting the pressing demands of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially restoration of statehood and 4G internet facilities.According to Apni Party spokesman, the meeting which lasted almost for an hour, was held in a very cordial atmosphere in which Bukhari expressed gratitude to the Prime Minister for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and initiating a comprehensive vaccination drive in the country."He also thanked the Prime Minister for sanctioning a special package for the revival of the industrial sector in Jammu and Kashmir. During the course of the meeting, Bukhari reiterated his demand for the restoration of Statehood to J&K,” the spokesman said in a statement.At the meeting, Bukhari expressed serious concern at the rising unemployment rate in Jammu and Kashmir and urged the PM for formulation of a comprehensive employment package for the youth of the union territory for a dignified livelihood."He emphasized on the need for exploration of viable options including roping in of multinational companies across the country and in the Gulf countries so as to address the unemployment problem of J&K’s qualified and skilled youth."Bukhari also sought the intervention of the Prime Minister for restoration of age relaxation for J&K’s UPSC aspirants that was in force before January 2020. He said that scrapping the UPSC age relaxation clause to the Domicile of J&K has extremely disappointed the youth of J&K.Bukhari also urged the Prime Minister to lift the ban on 4G mobile internet services across Jammu and Kashmir. He termed the ban on 4G in J&K unjustifiable and a discrimination with the people especially the student and business community.Referring to the return of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmir valley, Bukhari pleaded for an honorable return of the community and sought their rehabilitation with the majority community in the Valley. He said any ghettoization of this inseparable part of Kashmiri society will not be acceptable to the people.The dilapidated condition of Jammu-Srinagar National Highway and developing other alternative inter regional road connections like Mughal Road and Kishtwar-Sinthan routes into all weather roads also figured in the talks.Bukhari also pressed for the construction of individual and community bunkers for residents along the Line of Control in J&K so as to prevent the loss of life and damages to the properties due to recurring skirmishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apni-party-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-to-restore-j-k-s-statehood-4g-links-101611577046291.html
25-01-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari calls for research to explore cheaper alternatives to cement, steel to reduce prices||Amid rising steel prices in the country, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday highlighted the need to explore alternatives to steel as well as cement, for bringing down their prices.The Minister for Road Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) said he has asked some people from Indian Institutes of Technology to carry out research on alternatives to cement and steel."Steel prices have increased by 65 per cent in the last six months," Gadkari said adding that the steel and cement rates will reduce once cheaper alternatives are available.Addressing an event to launch products prepared under the Deen Dayal Upadhayay Vigyan Gram Sankul Pariyojana, the minister also cited the example of soyabean cakes. He said when used for mass consumption, they can be served as cheaper alternatives to mutton while alleviating the problem of malnutrition, due to their high protein content of 49 per cent."I believe that chicken and mutton are spoiling our mindset," the minister said. He, however, added that this should not become a controversial matter, as even though he is a vegetarian, a lot of people in the country are non-vegetarian.Gadkari also said lakhs of jobs could be created by empowering the village industry, which has the potential of achieving the annual turnover of ₹5 lakh crore.He added that by exploring new marketing avenues and export potential, the contribution of India's MSMEs could further be increased from 30 per cent at present to 40 per cent in the next 5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-calls-for-research-to-explore-cheaper-options-to-cement-steel-101611576775136.html
25-01-2021||India||14 Haryana Police officers to receive Police medals on R-Day||Two police officers of the Haryana Police have been selected for the President's Police Medal for distinguished service this Republic Day, while 12 others will get Police Medal for their meritorious service.As per a Haryana Police spokesperson, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Haryana, Navdeep Singh Virk and ADGP Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar have been selected to be awarded.Those who have been selected to be decorated with Police Medal for Meritorious Service include Angrej Singh DSP Headquarter Narnaul, Arun Deswal Sub-Inspector 5th Battalion HAP Madhuban, Suresh Kumar SI Rohtak, Kulwinder Kaur Lady SI State Crime Branch, Hardev Singh ESI Police Headquarter, Joginder Singh ASI Haryana Power Utility, Amit Kumar ASI State Vigilance Bureau, Parveen Kumar ASI Charkhi Dadri, Deepak Kumar, ASI Karnal, Didar Singh ASI Panchkula, Harish Kumar SI Panchkula and Joginder Singh ESI Ambala.The Police officers were congratulated by the Director-General of Police (DGP) Haryana, Manoj Yadava."It is a great honour for the entire police force. The recognition of outstanding services at the national level would further boost their morale as well as of others in the state police force," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-haryana-police-officers-to-receive-police-medals-on-rday-101611576493738.html
25-01-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report must for devotees coming for Kumbh in Haridwar||Dehradun, Jan 25 (PTI) Devotees who wish to attend the forthcoming Kumbh mela must bring a COVID-19 negative RT-PCR test report, according to a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre for holding the religious congregation.The RT-PCR test must be conducted within 72 hrs of the date of the visit, stated the document by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Uttarakhand government shall ensure that healthcare and other frontline workers engaged during Kumbh Mela medical and public health operations are vaccinated on priority.Only vaccinated healthcare and other frontline workers be deputed for Kumbh Mela duties, it said.As far as possible, people must maintain a six-feet distance in public places and wear masks, the SOP stated, while the authorities have been directed to ensure the devotees adhere to COVID-appropriate behaviour during the Kumbh.Mask dispensing kiosks at government-approved rates may be set up at entry points and parking lots. Provision should be kept for distribution of free masks to those who cannot afford them, it said.Enforcement agencies should levy penalties on defaulters for not wearing masks or face covers or for not following physical distancing norms, the SOP stated.Those aged more than 65 years, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those with underlying comorbid conditions such should be discouraged to attend the Kumbh Mela, it said.Devotees visiting the Kumbh Mela must register with the Uttarakhand government and obtain a compulsory medical certificate from the nearest community Health centre district hospital and medical college in their state.The Kumbh Mela administration should identify spatial boundaries of the fair ground keeping in view the physical distancing requirements and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing and sanitization.Kumbh Mela administration should make arrangements for adequate ambulances and build a temporary hospital with 1,000 beds which can be being expanded to 2,000 beds.The likely dates for the event are from February 27 to April 30. It is expected that about 10 lakh people will attend the fair on a normal day and about 50 lakh people will attend the mela on auspicious days. PTI ALM NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-devotees-coming-for-kumbh-in-haridwar-101611574837542.html
25-01-2021||India||17 ITBP officials get Police Medals on eve of Republic Day||Seventeen Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have been awarded police service medals of various categories on the eve of Republic Day on Monday.Two officers have been decorated with the police medal for gallantry, three with the President's police medal for distinguished service and 12 with police medals for meritorious service.Officials said Deputy Commandant Rajesh Kumar Luthra has been decorated for displaying courage and presence of mind to defuse a faceoff with Chinese troops in Ladakh in July, 2019, while Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh has been given a gallantry medal for the second time for undertaking a counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017.The other recipients include Inspector General (IG) Deepam Seth, awarded the meritorious service medal, and Deputy IG (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan who has been bestowed the distinguished service medal.Seth, a 1995-batch Indian Police Service officer of Uttarakhand cadre, is heading the ITBP northwest frontier formation based in Ladakh since mid-2019.He has been part of the various rounds of military talks being held at the Line of Actual Control with the Chinese over the long-negotiated disengagement process in eastern Ladakh as thousands of troops from both the sides remain deployed at friction points under freezing conditions.DIG Natarajan, who joined the ITBP in 1992, has served in high-altitude frontiers of Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh and the anti-Naxal operations grid in Chhattisgarh.The officer is credited for bettering the training standards of the ITBP canine wing, implementing new methodologies to dove-tail dog teams during operations and improving logistics for the ponies, mules and yaks that help transport rations and other paraphernalia to its border posts.The about 90,000-personnel strong force is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs from the Karakoram Pass in the Himalayas to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh apart from rendering a variety of internal security duties like conducting anti-Naxal operations. PTI NES NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-itbp-officials-get-police-medals-on-eve-of-republic-day-101611575447604.html
25-01-2021||India||'Maharashtra Governor has time for Kangana, but not farmers': Sharad Pawar at Mumbai rally||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday lashed out at Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari for not meeting the farmers who are protesting in Mumbai in solidarity with their counterparts in Delhi. These farmers are against the three central farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year."You are going to Raj Bhavan to meet the Governor. Maharashtra has never seen such a Governor before. He has the time to meet Kangana (Ranaut) but not the farmers. It was the moral responsibility of the Governor to come here and meet you," Pawar said at Azad Maidan in south Mumbai where he attended the gathering of the farmers, according to news agency A.Koshiyari, who also holds the additional charge of Goa, is currently in Panaji.Training his guns at the Centre, Pawar further said, "Braving cold weather, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are agitating for the last 60 days. Has the PM enquired about them? Do these farmers belong to Pakistan?"The NCP patriarch also said that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned.Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally in Mumbai where thousands of farmers have gathered.The farmers from various parts of Maharashtra gathered at Azad Maidan in Mumbai and also started a march towards the Governor's House (Raj Bhavan) but were stopped by the police.The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been touted by the central government as the biggest reform in the agriculture sector. They seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains.But the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-has-time-for-kangana-but-not-farmers-sharad-pawar-101611574817567.html
25-01-2021||India||DRDO conducts maiden launch of Akash missile at integrated test range in Odisha||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday successfully conducted the maiden launch of the new generation of surface-to-air Akash missile from integrated test range off the coast of Odisha. The new generation missile is designed for use by the Indian Air Force (IAF) in order to intercept high maneuvering aerial threats, the agency said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the team of scientists for the successful launch of the missile.The test launch at Odisha was carried off in presence of DRDO, BDL (Bharat Dynamics Ltd), the ammunition and missile system manufacturer and BEL (Bharat Electronics Ltd.), the public aerospace company. Representatives from the IAF were also present at the test launch site.Also Read | From Pinaka to Bhishma Tank: India to showcase its weapons on R-DayThe DRDO said that the missile was successful in intercepting the target with textbook precision. The performance of the command and control system, onboard avionics and aerodynamic configuration of the missile was successfully validated during the trial, as per the information provided by the government agency.Several range instruments including radar, EOTS and telemetry systems were used while monitoring the entire path of the missile during the test launch. The multi-function radar was also tested to verify its capability of integration with the system.The variant of Akash which was launched today is unique in a way that it has been built with better deployability in comparison to other similar systems that have canisterised launcher and smaller ground system footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-conducts-maiden-launch-of-akash-missile-at-integrated-test-range-in-odisha-101611575096941.html
25-01-2021||India||CRPF man killed in Pulwama attack gets President's police medal for gallantry||CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Mohan Lal who "chased and fired" at an explosives-laden car that rammed into a force bus in Pulwama killing him and 39 troops onboard in 2019 has been decorated with the highest police medal for gallantry on the eve of the Republic Day on Monday.A total of 207 police bravery medals were declared by the Union government apart from 89 President's police medals for distinguished service and 650 police medals for meritorious service, as per a list published by the Union Home Ministry.Only two police personnel have been decorated with the top category President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) this time, CRPF's Lal and late Jharkhand Police ASI Banua Oraon. As many as 205 personnel have been decorated with the second-highest police medal for gallantry or the PMG.50-year-old ASI Lal was the picket commander of the CRPF road opening party deployed on February 14, 2019 at milestone number 272 near the BSNL Tower in Lethpora, Pulwama on the Jammu-Srinagar highway when the dastardly terror attack was carried out by the Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist outfit.The attack car was being driven by suicide bomber Adil Ahmed Dar with about 200 kgs of explosives inside.The CRPF said Lal, after passing of few vehicles of the cavalcade, noticed this car "running alongside the convoy and trying to enter between the convoy vehicles."The brave official "signalled and chased the car to stop but could not match its speed"."Ultimately, finding no other option, he fired towards the suspicious car to stop but the car rammed into a nearby running CRPF bus and a huge blast took place," the force said.The massive blast killed a total of 40 CRPF personnel, 39 on the bus and Lal, it said.The sub-officer who belonged to the 110th battalion of the force has been decorated with the PPMG for displaying gallantry during this incident, the force said.The Central Reserve Police Force, the lead force for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorist operations in Jammu and Kashmir, also led the gallantry medals tally with a total 69 medals (1 PPMG and 68 PMG) followed by 52 earned by the JK Police, 20 by the Border Security Force, 17 by the Delhi Police and 13 by Maharashtra Police and others.Two personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force, tasked to guard the Line of Actual Control with China, have also been given the police medal for gallantry.Deputy Commandant Rajesh Kumar Luthra has been decorated for displaying courage and presence of mind to defuse a faceoff with Chinese troops at Ladakh in July, 2019 while another officer of the border guarding force, Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh, has been given a gallantry medal for the second time for undertaking a counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-man-killed-in-pulwama-attack-gets-president-s-police-medal-for-gallantry-101611573807868.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi High Court adopts QR code-based digital entry pass system||Delhi High Court has initiated the QR code-based digital entry pass system for lawyers who are entering the courtroom premises and attending physical hearings from Monday.In an office order, Delhi High Court "informed to all concerned that, in addition to the present system of entry into the Court Blocks, Delhi High Court, QR code-based digital entry pass system is also going to be made operational, on an experimental basis, with effect from January 25."The Court has issued various 'Standard of Procedure' on the QR code-based digital entry pass, among which it clarified that QR pass shall be generated and issued digitally by the High Court Registry one day in advance on the basis of listing of cases before the benches holding physical hearings.The High Court also clarified that the QR Pass will be received by all the advocates concerned and parties-in-person, who have got their mobile number and email IDs registered in the 'Case Information System' of the court."The QR pass shall be sent as an attachment (PDF file) through email and SMS. The concerned advocate and party-in-person shall be required to download the attached digital entry pass (PDF file) on her or his Mobile/Laptop/Tablet/iPad from the email or SMS link, and show such downloaded QR Pass to the security personnel at the Entry Gate(s) of respective court building(s) while entering and while making exit," the official order said.However, the court clarified "generally, there shall not be any requirement of generating any printout of such QR Pass" and it will be "valid for the day for which it is issued and can be used only once that day".The court further said the security personnel deployed at entry gate(s) and exit gates(s) will use the QR code reader to get the details of the visiting advocate/ and party-in-person.It also added that the advocate concerned and party-in-person will need to carry any original ID proof along with the QR Pass at the time of entry into the court blocks.The High Court order further added that the advocates concerned will have to ensure that the QR Pass is not misused by anyone."Such QR Pass is non-transferrable. However, in case the concerned advocate is not in a position to attend the court proceedings and wants some other advocate to represent her or him before the court, then she or he shall issue necessary authorization in writing," it stated.The court said in case of such authorisation, the advocate who was issued the QR Pass will have to provide the printout of their pass along with a copy of their ID to the authorised advocate, to be shown at the time of entry."Such authorized advocate shall be permitted entry after due verification. The written authorization shall be retained for the record at the time of entry," the order added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-adopts-qr-code-based-digital-entry-pass-system-101611574427917.html
25-01-2021||India||40-year-old woman killed by leopard in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh||A 40-year-old woman died after being attacked by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district on Monday morning, forest officials said. She became the second woman to be killed by a leopard in the state in a week.Navin Pant, sub-divisional officer of Pithoragarh forest division said, "Seema Devi (40) wife of Shankar Ram from Harali Agar village in the district was attacked by a leopard on Monday morning when she had gone to the forests to collect grass. The woman later succumbed to her injuries."Pant further said that this is the third incident of death due to leopard attack in the area in the past two months. Two more women from the same area have died after being attacked by leopards"We had installed cages in sensitive villages but the animal could not be trapped. We are again intensifying measures to capture the leopard," said the forest officer.Attacks by leopards have been increasing in UttarakhandOn January 20, a 50-year-woman was killed by a leopard in Almora district. On January 9, this leopard had been declared as a ‘man-eater’ by the state forest department. On December 1, a 65-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Chamoli district.In the first week of November, a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district. Three women including a teen lost their lives in a week in October in the districts of Nainital, US Nagar and Pithoragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40yearold-woman-killed-by-leopard-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-101611574239241.html
25-01-2021||India||Goa nearing complete normalcy after Covid-19 outbreak: Governor Koshyari||A five-day session of the Goa Assembly began here on Monday during which Governor B S Koshyari said the state is "nearing complete normalcy" after the Covid-19 outbreak, and that the pandemic is an eye-opener which has taught people to be self-reliant.On the first day of the session, members of the House paid tributes to some prominent personalities who died recently and those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state.So far, 761 people have died due to the coronavirus infection in Goa, as per official figures.The session began with Governor Koshyari's address to the House, following which members of the opposition parties protested against the state government's decision to hold a curtailed session.In his address, the governor said the state has suffered a lot in terms of socio-economic and infrastructure development taking a backseat in the Covid-19 times."But due to systematic planning, regular monitoring and instantaneous corrective measures by the state administration, the state is now gaining momentum in its activities from micro to macro level and is nearing complete normalcy," Koshyari said.He said the Covid-19 (pandemic) is an eye-opener, which has taught people and states to be self-reliant.The governor further said though there was the effect of demonetisation as well as slowdown during 2017-18, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for 2017-18 at current prices stood at ₹69,352.05 crore, registering a growth rate of 9.29 per cent compared to 2016-17."The provisional estimate of GSDP at current prices for the year 2018-19 is ₹73,170.33 crore, with an estimated growth rate of 5.51 per cent as compared to 2017-18," he said."Goa has highest per capita income (at current prices) in the country which stood at ₹4.54 lakh for the year 2017- 18, and for the year 2018-19 it stood at ₹4.76 lakh," the governor told the House.He said mining is an important sector in the state's economy, which had been contributing about 16 per cent of the GSDP in 2011-12, and in 2019-20 is contributing only about 0.2 per cent."The Goa government has conducted 24 e-auctions and sold 14.68 million tons of the mineral iron ore lying at various stack yards," he said."My government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic manner by rejuvenating the state's economy, preserving the environment, natural resources, health status of people in the mining sector with the main vision to ensure sustainable mining in Goa," he said.After the governor's address, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar mentioned obituary references for several eminent personalities who died recently. He also mentioned about the death of several people in Goa due to Covid-19.The House members then observed a one-minute silence to pay homage to all the departed souls.After the governor's address, the opposition members, without making any noise, got up and displayed hoardings to protest against the curtailed session.Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said the opposition had demanded a lengthier session of the Assembly."We met only for five days last year, and this time, the session has been called only for four (working) days," he said, adding that there are lot of issues that need to be raised on the floor of the House.Notably, January 26 would be a holiday for the session on occasion of the Republic Day.Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai and NCP legislator Churchill Alemao said a crucial issue like "turning Goa into a coal handling hub" should have been discussed in the House.Sardesai said the governor's address had no mention of the apprehensions about coal handling, which he claimed as one of the burning issues in the state.Congress MLA and former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro said he had written to the governor, urging him to call a special Assembly session to discuss the coal issue.Mahrashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar said he had submitted that the opposition, during the Business Advisory Committee, demanded five Calling Attention motions, but only three of them feature on the record.Later, BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo moved a Motion of Thanks on the governor's address. It was seconded by BJP legislator Dayanand Sopte.The House was then adjourned for the day.Earlier, Speaker Patnekar on Sunday said 751 questions, comprising 195 'starred' and 556 'unstarred' ones, had been received for the session.Five private members' resolution, four private members' bills and six government bills would be tabled during the session, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-nearing-complete-normalcy-after-covid-19-outbreak-governor-koshyari-101611572255574.html
25-01-2021||India||Maintain peace during tractor rally, appeals Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Ahead of the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the farmers to ensure that the event remains peaceful while urging the Centre once again to heed the troubled voice of the farming community in the true spirit of the Indian Republic."Peace has been the hallmark of farmers' democratic protests all these months, and should remain integral to your agitation in the days ahead, including the R-Day Tractor Rally into the national capital," said the Chief Minister, in his Republic Day eve message.The sight of farmers' tractors on Delhi roads tomorrow will underline the fact that the ethos of the Indian Constitution and the essence of our Republic is inalienable and uncompromisable, he said.Chief Minister said that the brazen manner in which the three Farm Laws were pushed through, without debate or discussion, cannot, and should not be accepted in the world's largest democracy.The Centre had absolutely no power to legislate on a state subject, which Agriculture is, and the implementation of the farm legislation violates every principle of our Constitution and the federal structure it stands for, he added.The Chief Minister said in their collective fight, in which his government was standing shoulder to shoulder with the farmers, was aimed at protecting the federal core of the Indian Constitution."We stand by every farmer whose sweat and blood has nurtured Punjab's soil for decades, and without whom India today would not stand tall as a self-reliant nation. Besides compensation and job for one family member of each of the deceased farmers, we shall extend any other help their families may need. We shall continue also to reach out to the families of those still camping at the Delhi border to make their voice heard by the Government of India," said Captain Amarinder, reaching out to every farmer and their families in Punjab.He also extended his respects to all those farmers who had lost their lives in the prolonged agitation, which could have been avoided in the first place or could have been brought to an end long back had the "insensitive" Government of India, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not chosen to stand on unwarranted ego.There was no justification, said the Chief Minister, for the Central Government's adamant refusal to repeal the Farm Laws, which, in any case, have been implemented arbitrarily without consultation or discussion with the farmers and other stakeholders.Recalling the contribution of Punjab's farmers to India's self-reliance and progress, the Chief Minister said they did not toil with their sweat and blood to see a nation whoseConstitutional ideals of justice, liberty, equality and dignity, were being systemically trampled over the past 6 years, most notably over the past 2 months of their struggle."The voice of the farmers, and in fact every section of our populace, is being subjugated, and we have to ensure that their voice is not only heard but also heeded," he asserted, adding that the celebration of the Indian Republic would not be complete without the acknowledgement of this contribution of Punjab and its farmers to India's progress.Farmers from all across the country are marching towards Delhi to take part in the scheduled rally. Tractors from Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan have reached on Tikri border as the farmers sit in for protest for nearly two months.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintain-peace-during-tractor-rally-appeals-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101611573664646.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present, Shiv Sena sends youth wing leaderLeaders of the prominent parties in Maharashtra joined a gathering of farmers at Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday. Read moreDelhi HC reiterates ‘voluntary to download WhatsApp on mobile, not mandatory’The Delhi High Court on Monday reiterated that it was not a compulsion to download the WhatsApp mobile application but voluntary." Read moreSikkim goes back to non-partisan polls after more than a decadeTiny Himalayan state of Sikkim is all set to return to non-partisan form of elections after more than a decade. Read moreNaku La clash: China trying to open new front, test India’s defence, say expertsThe latest face-off involving Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim appears to be part of a larger effort to both test India’s defences and open a new front. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'He really enjoys a battle,' Andy Flower lauds 'outstanding' Rishabh PantFormer Zimbabwe captain Andy Flower praised Rishabh Pant for his fighting spirit in Australia to help India win the Test series 2-1. Read moreNeena Gupta asks fans if it's okay to need people in life, here's what they saidKnown for breaking the stereotypes and asking important questions, Neena Gupta is making headlines once again. Read moreSkoda Kushaq SUV, rival to Creta, will get two engine and three gearbox optionsSkoda Kushaq SUV, rival to Creta, will get two engine and three gearbox options. Underlining how the mid-size SUV will be made in India but made for the world, Skoda recently released more images. Read moreCustomer leaves $200 tip for each employee in Colorado café, garners praiseNotchtop Bakery & Café in Estes Park, Colorado shared a post on their Facebook page that has warmed netizens' hearts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-gather-for-mumbai-rally-sharad-pawar-present-shiv-sena-sends-youth-wing-leader-and-all-the-latest-news-101611571919620.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind confers Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards to 40 people||President Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards, 2020, to 40 people on Monday, ahead of 72nd Republic Day.The award is given to a person for an exemplary act of human nature in saving someone's life. It can be awarded under three categories - Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak, Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak and Jeevan Raksha Padak. It is also given posthumously.The awardee receives a medal, a certificate signed by the Union home minister and a lump sum monetary allowance which is presented to the receiver by the respective union ministries/organizations/state government to which he or she belongs.The Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards, 2020, were presented to the following persons:Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha PadakShri Muhammed Muhsin (Posthumous), KeralaUttam Jeevan Raksha PadakShri Ramshibhai Ratnabhai Samad (Rabari), GujaratShri Parmeshwar Balaji Nagargoje, MaharashtraKum. Amandeep Kaur, PunjabShri Koripelly Srujan Reddy, TelanganaMaster Tinku Nishhad, Uttar PradeshSmt. Himani Biswal, Madhya PradeshKum. Kalagarla Sahithi, Andhra PradeshShri Bhuwaneshwar Prajapati, Uttar PradeshJeevan Raksha PadakShri Bhaveshkumar Satuji Vihol, GujaratShri Ishwarlal Manubhai Sangada, GujaratShri Manmohansinh Rathod, GujaratShri Prakashkumar Bavchandbhai Vekariya, GujaratShri Rahver Virbhadrasinh Tejsinh, GujaratShri Rakeshbhai Babubhai Jadav, GujaratShri Vijay Ajit Chhaira, GujaratMaster Arun Thomas, KeralaMaster Rojin Robert, KeralaShri Shiju. P. Gopi, KeralaShri Gourishankar Vyas, Madhya PradeshShri Jagdish Singh Siddhu, Madhya PradeshShri Pushpendra Singh Rawat, Madhya PradeshShri Rajesh Kumar Rajpoot, Madhya PradeshShri Anil Dashrath Khule, MaharashtraShri Balasaheb Dnyandeo Nagargoje, MaharashtraShri Sunil Kumar, Uttar PradeshShri Mohinder Singh, PunjabShri Nihal Singh, Uttar PradeshMaster Fedrick, Andaman and NicobarShri Mukesh Choudhery, RajasthanShri Ravindra Kumar, GujaratShri S M Rafi, KarnatakaShri S.V. Jose, KeralaShri Vani Hiren Kumar, GujaratShri Abujam Roben Singh, ManipurShri Bala Naik Banavath, KeralaShri Ashok Singh Rajput, Jammu and KashmirShri Paramjit Singh, Jammu and KashmirShri Ranjit Chandra Ishore, Jammu and KashmirShri Rinku Chauhan, Uttar Pradesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-confers-jeevan-raksha-padak-series-of-awards-to-40-people-101611571847698.html
25-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka becomes first state in India to inoculate over 2 lakh people||Karnataka has become the first state in the country to vaccinate more than two lakh healthcare workers as part of a nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The drive was kicked off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16.According to state health department, 2,06,577 healthcare workers had been vaccinated against Covid-19 by 2 pm on Monday.The state has been leading in getting its frontline workers vaccinated in the first phase of the inoculation programme.After PM Modi launched the vaccination drive nationally through video conferencing, Nagaratna K (28), a ward attendant at Victoria Hospital received the vaccine in the presence of chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Union minister Pralhad Joshi and health minister K Sudhakar among others at the Bangalore Medical College.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated crossed 16 lakh (16,13,667) in the country till 7.30 pm on Sunday through 28,613 sessions, according to Union health ministry.About 30 crore people will be inoculated in the first phase. Healthcare workers from both government and private sectors are the first to receive the vaccine followed by frontline workers including civil defence and disaster management volunteers.The Centre is bearing the cost of vaccination in the first phase.The government will then turn its attention to people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with comorbidities.The government is using two vaccines - Covishield made by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin - to inoculate people against the deadly Sars-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-becomes-first-state-in-india-to-inoculate-over-2-lakh-people-101611573001747.html
25-01-2021||India||Goa govt trying resume mining in systematic manner, says Governor Koshyari||The contribution of the Goa’s mining sector to the state’s GDP has reduced from 16% at its peak in 2011-12 to a mere 0.2% presently owing to shutdown of the industry in the state, the Governor said in his maiden speech in the legislative assembly, but assured that his government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic mannerIn his first address to the Goa legislative assembly since he was given charge of the state, Bhagat Singh Koshyari who is also the Governor of Maharashtra, said, “You are all aware that the state is endowed with mineral resources. Mining is an important sector in the State economy, which had been contributing about 16% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2011-12 and in 2019-20 is contributing only about 0.2%. Mining sector is a major revenue earner, creator of employment and caters to the demand for construction material,” he said.“My government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic manner by rejuvenating the state's economy, preserving the environment, the natural resources, the health status of the people in the mining sector with the main vision to ensure "sustainable mining" in the state of Goa,” Koshyari said. The Governor also praised the police for improving its effectiveness.The overall crime situation in the State has remained under control due implementation and monitoring of law and order. The effective overall crime detection rate of 92% for the year 2020 as against 84% during the year 2019 shows the commitment of the police force for providing a safe and secure environment to the citizens as well as tourists visiting the state.The Governor’s speech was met with silent protests by the opposition who wore black armbands and held up placards as he concluded his speech The opposition was protesting what they said was the Government’s assault on Goa’s identity, environmental destruction and other ‘burning issues’.“There has been no mention of the coal issue and the issue of the three infrastructure projects passing through the Mollem Wildlife sanctuary. The government is least bothered about the issues facing Goans and is only indulging in tokenism,” Vijai Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party, said.In the assembly, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat raised the issue of the lack of enough time to discuss pressing issues facing the state.“Across the whole of last year there was an assembly session for only seven days. This year when we have asked for a longer session only four days has been given,” Kamat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-trying-resume-mining-in-systematic-manner-says-governor-koshyari-101611571178202.html
25-01-2021||India||Sikkim goes back to non-partisan polls after more than a decade||Tiny Himalayan state of Sikkim is all set to return to non-partisan form of elections after more than a decade.While political parties contested the municipal polls in the eastern state for the first time in 2010, they contested the panchayat polls for the first time in 1997. Before that, Sikkim used to hold non-partisan elections.“The election for the municipalities on non-partisan lines would be held either by end of March or early April this year. The required amendments have already been made through the state assembly,” said Arun Upreti, Sikkim’s urban and housing development minister.Two senior officers in the state’s panchayat department and state election commission said that the rural polls would be held in November next year. Last time Sikkim went to the municipal polls was in 2015 while the panchayat polls in the state were held in 2017.Also read: Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku LaThe Prem Singh Tamang (Golay)-government has already amended the Sikkim Municipalities Act and Panchayat Act to hold elections, sans political parties.“No person shall contest the election to any panchayat and municipality with the support, direct or indirect, of any political party,” the amendments noted.It was after the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) came to power in 1994 that amendments were made in both the panchayat act and municipalities act and the system of political party-based elections were introduced.But, keeping its election promises to hold party-less panchayat and municipality elections, the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha ( SKM), which formed the government in 2019, amended the Sikkim Municipalities Act 2007 on September 21, 2019, while the Panchayat Act was amended on March 4, 2020.“The latest amendments would usher in true democracy in grassroots governance,” said Tamang, CM of Sikkim.Justifying the decisions to hold apolitical elections, SKM spokesperson Jacob Khaling, who is also the political secretary to the chief minister, said, “People now can choose their representatives independently without getting influenced by the ruling party’s pressure. In the past, voters were compelled to vote to the ruling party’s candidates whether they like them or not.”The opposition, however, said that the non-partisan system is against the panchayat and municipal system.JB Darnal, spokesperson of the opposition SDF said, “The decision to hold non-partisan elections goes against the very tenet of the panchayati system and municipal system. This will deprive good, committed and honest people affiliated with political parties.”Sikkim has seven municipal bodies - Gangtok Municipal Corporation, Namchi Municipal Council, Jorethang Municipal Council, Gyalshing Municipal Council, Singtam Nagar Panchayat, Rangpo Nagar Panchayat and Mangan Nagar Panchayat.In the last elections, the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards in the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank.In 2017, the then ruling party, the SDF, had won 536 village panchayat seats and 27 zilla panchayat seats, unopposed. The SDF had swept the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-goes-back-to-non-partisan-polls-after-more-than-a-decade-101611571016976.html
25-01-2021||India||China tries to open new front with Naku La clash, test India’s defence: Experts||The latest face-off involving Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim appears to be part of a larger effort to both test India’s defences and open a new front amid the stalemate in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), experts said on Monday.The January 20 incident at Naku La, described by the Indian Army as a “minor face-off”, came close on the heels of aggressive Chinese action related to Japan’s Senkaku Islands and a large incursion into Taiwan’s airspace by Chinese warplanes – which experts said appeared to be signalling towards the new US administration.The Indian Army confirmed Indian and People’s Liberation Army troops had faced off at Naku La, a pass located at a height of more than 5,000 metres in Sikkim sector, and that the incident was resolved by local commanders. Officials familiar with the development said soldiers from both armies sustained injuries in the brawl that was triggered when Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into Indian territory.Also read | Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku LaThe efforts to intrude into the Indian side went against understandings reached during several rounds of military and diplomatic talks over the past few months, the officials cited above said. An Indian statement issued after talks between Indian and Chinese commanders on November 6 had said that both sides agreed to ensure their frontline troops exercise restraint and “avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation”.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said China had sought to open a new front amid the stalemate in Ladakh sector, where tens of thousands of troops have dug in for the harsh winter. “There is nothing the Chinese can now do in Ladakh which they can portray to their advantage,” he said.“Unlike previous standoffs, where the Chinese stepped back after intruding, there has been a fundamental change in the attitude of the Chinese. They aren’t stepping back this time after they were repelled and faced resistance,” Patil added.Also read | Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plansFormer ambassador Vishnu Prakash said China’s latest moves appeared to probing India’s defences by attempting to intrude into Indian space. “I thought the use of the word ‘minor’ was best avoided. A clash is a clash. Just as we were awaiting the outcome of the ninth round of talks between military commanders, an intrusion into Naku La represents an attitude that is anything but minor,” he said.The Chinese side appears to be expanding its efforts across the spectrum and looking for openings where it can “gain some strategic advantage”, Prakash said.The face-off in Sikkim came days after China passed a bill on January 22 that allows its coast guard to use weapons when foreign ships involved in alleged illegal activities in waters claimed by Beijing fail to obey orders. The legislation can be used to target Japanese vessels around the Senkaku Islands, which are administered by Japan but claimed by China.Japan also lodged a diplomatic protest with China last week over Beijing’s repeated intrusions into waters surrounding the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.On January 24, Taiwan reported an unusually large incursion into its air defence identification zone by eight nuclear-capable Chinese bomber planes and four combats jets. China has conducted almost daily flights over waters between southern Taiwan and Taiwan-controlled islands in the South China Sea in recent months but most of these involved reconnaissance aircraft.New US defence secretary Lloyd Austin on Sunday reaffirmed his country’s commitment to defending the Senkaku Islands during his first phone call with his Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi. A US aircraft carrier group led by the USS Theodore Roosevelt is currently in the South China Sea to promote “freedom of the seas” amid the spiralling tensions between China and Taiwan.Patil said all of these moves by China appeared to have been made with an eye on the new Biden administration in the US. “The world has pushed back against China on Covid-19, the situation in the South China Sea and on Japan. They are testing the waters with the new US administration to see how far they can go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naku-la-clash-china-trying-to-open-new-front-test-india-s-defence-say-experts-101611571454105.html
25-01-2021||India||Marching style of Indian, Bangladeshi contingents 'similar', says Col Chaudhary||Col Mohatsim Hyder Chaudhary, chief of the Bangladesh contingent taking part in the Republic Day parade said that the marching style of the Indian contingent is similar to that of the Bangladeshi contingent.Speaking exclusively to ANI, Chaudhary said the Bangladeshi contingent has a bigger responsibility of putting on a great show on Tuesday's parade, adding that the forces are excited as well."It is a great responsibility that has been assigned to us. The men with me are very excited to participate in this parade... If you ask about the feelings, participating in a foreign land, with a foreign army and with the same tempo is very much exciting," he said.Chaudhary added, "It is a very good experience. Fortunately, the way we march and the marching of the Indian contingent are quite similar. From that point of view, we didn't have to change our pattern much."For the first time ever, a 122 member strong contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will participate at the historic Republic Day celebrations.According to sources, the majority of the soldiers in this contingent hail from the most distinguished units of the Bangladesh Army comprising of 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 & 11 East Bengal Regiment and 1, 2 and 3 Field Artillery Regiment. These units have the distinct honour of fighting and winning the 1971 Liberation War.This Bangladesh contingent carries with them the legacy of legendary Muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, their fore-fathers who fought against oppression, mass atrocities by tyrannical forces and for the freedom of Bangladesh. The contingent also has members of the Bangladesh Navy and Air Force who had contributed to the liberation of Bangladesh, Operation Jackpot and Kilo flight of the Bangladesh Navy and Air-force respectively.The valiant Mukti Bahini and the Indian forces fought side by side against the enemy and secured victory for Bangladesh in 1971.Bangladesh Armed Forces are considered a disciplined and professional force. Growing numbers of women are joining the forces to serve the country, and like Indian Armed Forces, the Bangladesh Armed Forces has also contributed to the UN peacekeeping operations across the world, sources added.This year, India and Bangladesh celebrate 50 years of the establishment their ties and Bangladesh celebrates 50 years of its independence. Both sides have agreed to hold commemorative events in several other countries and also jointly organise events throughout the year. It is these fraternal ties that exist between the two countries that make the relations transcend even a strategic partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marching-style-of-indian-bangladeshi-contingents-similar-says-col-chaudhary-101611564270184.html
25-01-2021||India||Bihar to spend over ₹20 crore on security of temples, walls at burial grounds||The Bihar government has decided to tighten security and set up boundaries around the temples and burial grounds in the state and will spend over ₹23 crore on the same.Under the project, over two dozen temples of 19 districts will be covered and 17 burial grounds across 15 districts have been identified. While the burial grounds will be developed at ₹13.50 crore, the government will be spending over ₹10 crore over boundary walls around the temples. Last week, the state home department also approved the funds for the same.Home department deputy secretary Vimalesh Kumar Jha said the department has approved the amount for the financial year of 2020-21. “It was to be handled earlier, but it got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown,” he said.The move is aimed to address the issue of encroachment and illegal constructions over the burial grounds and near temples. Besides, there also has been a rise in incidents of thefts of idols from temples.On December 29, 2020, two idols of Shiva and Parvati were stolen from Radha Krishna Thakurbari at Patna Sahib area in the state capital.In March 2020 also three Ashtadhatu idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman were stolen from a temple in Purnia while in January 2019 five Ashtadhatu idols disappeared from a temple in Samastipur.“These are only a few incidents and many might not have got reported. Most of the temples in rural areas are without boundary walls and have been targeted by miscreants who sell them to antique dealers,” claimed Dr Kishore Kunal, former chairman of Bihar Religious Trust Board.A former official of Bihar Shia Waqf Board, Irshad Ali, said, “Encroachment has been a big issue at burial grounds. At many such places locals have encroached upon the land. Such areas are in a dire need of boundary walls to demarcate the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-spend-over-rs-20-crore-on-security-of-temples-walls-at-burial-grounds-101611570625062.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi HC reiterates ‘voluntary to download WhatsApp on mobile, not mandatory’||The Delhi High Court on Monday reiterated that it was not a compulsion to download the WhatsApp mobile application but voluntary. "It is not mandatory to download WhatsApp on your mobile and it is voluntary. If you want to choose not to download WhatsApp, you can," the court told the petitioner seeking direction for an injunction against the messaging app’s updated privacy policy, according to news agency ANI.The court also said that not only WhatsApp but every other application has similar terms and conditions and asked the petitioner how does this application prejudice him. A single bench of Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva was hearing a plea filed by Chaitanya Rohilla through advocate Manohar Lal.The plea also alleges that the new norms also jeopardise national security by sharing, transmitting and storing the users’ data in some other country.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma told the court that the data protection bill is being discussed and WhatsApp's response has been sought by the Central government.The high court has asked the Centre to put on record the explanation offered by WhatsApp to the notice and questionnaires sent by the government seeking clarification on its new privacy policy.During the hearing, Sharma told the court that the Centre has taken strong note of the new WhatsApp policy which is meting out a “differential” treatment to Indian users. He said that notices and questionnaires have been sent to WhatsApp seeking their response on various aspects concerning the privacy of an individual.The ASG also told the court that an opt-out option to not share data with Facebook has been provided to European users of WhatsApp, but not Indian, who are being treated with an “all or nothing approach”. He added that a Joint Parliamentary committee is already discussing the Personal Data Collection Bill.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-reiterates-voluntary-to-download-whatsapp-on-mobile-not-mandatory-101611569878400.html
25-01-2021||India||Man with 155 deskinned birds, involvement in smuggling arrested in Bihar||A person was arrested for his alleged involvement in a wildlife smuggling syndicate in Bihar’s Motihari on Sunday morning. The man was also caught with 155 deskinned birds.According to officials, the arrest was made near Dhanauti river at Raghunathpur near Motihari, headquarters of East Champaran district Sunday around 5 am."We laid a trap after we were being frequently tipped off about a man called Muslim Miyan who indulged in illegal smuggling of migratory birds. Decoying as a buyer, one of our team members approached him and the accused was later caught with 155 deskinned birds," said Prabhakar Jha, divisional forest officer (DFO), East Champaran.The accused, a resident of Belwa village under Turakauliya police station of East Champaran, was involved in supply of Siberian and other local birds to West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Samastipur and Sitamarhi, among other districts of Bihar, said officials. The other seizures included a motorcycle and ₹10,000."He is used to selling some of the species for ₹5,000 as well. The further interrogation is on," said Jha, describing him as an interdistrict smuggler of birds."Right after he was arrested, our men received a call on his mobile from Sitamarhi where prices for Siberian and other migratory birds were asked," said an official who was part of team that laid the trap for his arrest.Forest officials have booked him under section 49 B, 52 and 55 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-with-155-deskinned-birds-involvement-in-smuggling-arrested-in-bihar-101611569735574.html
25-01-2021||India||Highlights: Ram Vilas Paswan, Keshubhai Patel, Tarun Gogoi awarded Padma Bhushan||Ahead of the Republic Day, the Union home ministry released a list naming police officers, defence personnel, and children who have been chosen for awards for their exceptional achievement in a particular field/discipline, gallantry and bravery. These awards include the Padma awards, gallantry awards, president’s police medals, correctional services awards, Pradhan mantri rashtriya bal puraskar, president’s fire medals, home guard and civil defence honours and Jeevan Raksha Padak.The Padma Vibhushan awards were conferred to 7 awardees, the Padma Bhushan to 10 and the Padma Shri awards were conferred to 102 awardees.The Gallantry Awards are given to honour the acts of bravery and sacrifice of the officers/personnel of the Armed Forces and other lawfully constituted forces and civilians. President Ram Nath Kovind also approved the conferment of Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel on the Republic Day to 52 officials.The government also confers the Bal Shakti Puraskar under Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to the children with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service, and bravery.The President’s fire medals are awarded to fire personnel with two medals - one for gallantry, and another for distinguished service. Home Guard and Civil Defence personnel are honoured with the President's Home Guards and Civil Defence Gallantry Medal and the Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service.President Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards to 40 people.Read live updates here:Maha Vir Chakra for Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu, Vir Chakra for 5 othersColonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar regiment, who was killed during a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last year, will be posthumously awarded with Maha Vir Chakra on Republic Day. Read morePadma Shri awards list2. Ms. P. Anitha 3. Shri Rama Swamy Annavarapu4. Shri Subbu Arumugam5. Shri Prakasarao Asavadi6. Ms. Bhuri Bai7. Shri Radhe Shyam Barle8. Shri Dharma Narayan Barma9. Ms. Lakhimi Baruah10. Shri Biren Kumar Basak11. Ms. Rajni Bector12. Shri Peter Brook13. Ms. Sangkhumi Bualchhuak14. Shri Gopiram Bargayn Burabhakat15. Ms. Bijoya Chakravarty16. Shri Sujit Chattopadhyay17. Shri Jagdish Chaudhary (Posthumous)18. Shri Tsultrim Chonjo19. Ms. Mouma Das20. Shri Srikant Datar21. Shri Narayan Debnath22. Ms. Chutni Devi23. Ms. Dulari Devi24. Ms. Radhe Devi25. Ms. Shanti Devi26. Shri Wayan Dibia27. Shri Dadudan Gadhavi28. Shri Parshuram Atmaram Gangavane29. Shri Jai Bhagwan Goyal30. Shri Jagadish Chandra Halder31. Shri Mangal Singh Hazowary32. Ms. Anshu Jamsenpa33. Ms. Purnamasi Jani34. Matha B. Manjamma Jogati35. Shri Damodaran Kaithapram36. Shri Namdeo C Kamble37. Shri Maheshbhai & Shri Nareshbhai Kanodia (Duo) (Posthumous)38. Shri Rajat Kumar Kar39. Shri Rangasami Lakshminarayana Kashyap40. Ms. Prakash Kaur41. Shri Nicholas Kazanas42. Shri K Kesavasamy Art43. Shri Ghulam Rasool Khan44. Shri Lakha Khan45. Ms. Sanjida Khatun46. Shri Vinayak Vishnu47. Ms. Niru Kumar48. Ms. Lajwanti49. Shri Rattan Lal50. Shri Ali Manikfan51. Shri Ramachandra Manjhi52. Shri Dulal Manki53. Shri Nanadro B Marak54. Shri Rewben Mashangva55. Shri Chandrakant Mehta56. Dr. Rattan Lal Mittal57. Shri Madhavan Nambiar58. Shri Shyam Sundar Paliwal59. Dr. Chandrakant Sambhaji Pandav60. Dr. J N Pande (Posthumous)61. Shri Solomon Pappaiah62. Ms. Pappammal62. Dr. Krishna Mohan Pathi64. Ms. Jaswantiben Jamnadas Popat65. Shri Girish Prabhune66. Shri Nanda Prusty67. Shri K K Ramachandra68. Shri Balan Putheri69. Ms. Birubala Rabha70. Shri Kanaka Raju71. Ms. Bombay Jayashri72. Shri Satyaram Reang Art Tripura73. Dr. Dhananjay Diwakar Sagdeo74. Shri Ashok Kumar Sahu75. Dr. Bhupendra Kumar Singh76. Ms. Sindhutai Sapkal77. Shri Chaman Lal Sapru (Posthumous)78. Shri Roman Sarmah79. Shri Imran Shah80. Shri Prem Chand Sharma81. Shri Arjun Singh Shekhawat82. Shri Ram Yatna Shukla83. Shri Jitender Singh Shunty84. Shri Kartar Paras Ram Singh85. Shri Kartar Singh86. Dr. Dilip Kumar Singh87. Shri Chandra Shekhar Singh88. Ms. Sudha Hari Narayan Singh89. Shri Virender Singh90. Ms. Mridula Sinha (Posthumous)91. Shri K C Sivasankar (Posthumous)92. Guru Maa Kamali Soren93. Shri Marachi Subburaman94. Shri P Subramanian(Posthumous)95. Ms. Nidumolu Sumathi96. Shri Kapil Tiwari97. Father Vallés98. Dr. Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan99. Shri Sridhar Vembu100. Shri K Y Venkatesh101. Ms. Usha Yadav102. Col Quazi Sajjad Ali ZahirPadma Bhushan awards list2. Shri Tarun Gogoi (Posthumous)3. Shri Chandrashekhar Kambara4. Ms. Sumitra Mahajan5. Shri Nripendra Misra6. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan (Posthumous)7. Shri Keshubhai Patel (Posthumous)8. Shri Kalbe Sadiq (Posthumous)9. Shri Rajnikant Devidas Shroff10. Shri Tarlochan SinghPadma Vibhushan awards list2. Shri S P Balasubramaniam (Posthumous)3. Dr. Belle Monappa Hegde Medicine4. Shri Narinder Singh Kapany (Posthumous)5. Maulana Wahiduddin Khan6. Shri B. B. Lal7. Shri Sudarshan SahooGalwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honoursColonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar battalion, who led soldiers to evict Chinese soldiers from East Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last June, has been posthumously named for Mahavir Chakra, India’s second-highest military award for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of the enemy, an official announcement by the Defence Ministry said on Monday. Read moreTatrakshak MedalsPresident Ram Nath Kovind awarded Tatrakshak medals for Distinguished Service to two Indian Coast Guard personnel, Gallantry to four personnel and Meritorious Service to two personnel on Republic Day.Jeevan Raksha AwardsPresident Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak awards, an offshoot of the Ashoka Chakra series of Gallantry awards. The Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak awarded for conspicuous courage in saving life under circumstances of very great danger to the life of the rescuer has been conferred posthumously to Shri Muhammed Mohsin from Kerala. The Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak which is awarded for courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of great danger to the life of the rescuer has been awarded to 8 people. The Jeevan Raksha Padak which is awarded for courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of grave bodily injury to the rescuer has been awarded to 31 people. See list here14 Haryana Police officers to receive Police medals on R-DayTwo police officers of the Haryana Police have been selected for the President's Police Medal for distinguished service this Republic Day, while 12 others will get Police Medal for their meritorious service. See full list hereCRPF ASI Mohan Lal killed in Pulwama attack gets President's police medal for gallantryCRPF Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Mohan Lal who "chased and fired" at an explosives-laden car that rammed into a force bus in Pulwama killing him and 39 troops onboard in 2019 has been decorated with the highest police medal for gallantry on the eve of the Republic Day on Monday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-awards-2021-live-updates-101611567932534.html
25-01-2021||India||Police case filed against Rajasthan MLA for alleged attempt to murder||Baljeet Yadav, an independent member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Behror constituency of Alwar district, along with six others, was booked by the police on charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy for allegedly attacking son of former minister and senior BJP leader Jaswant Yadav.“The investigation in the case has been transferred to the crime branch,” said Ram Moorty Joshi, superintendent of police (SP), Bhiwadi.Mohit Yadav, 39, son of a BJP leader Jaswant Yadav, was beaten up by miscreants on Alwar Road at around 10.45 am on Sunday.Later in the evening, Jaswant accused Behror MLA for the attack on his son and sat on a sit-in along with his supporters at the Behror police station.“The former minister had warned of self-immolation and demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Tents were also set up outside the police station for dharna at night, but the protest ended after getting assurance from Bhiwadi SP at around 9 pm,” said a police official.Jaswant Yadav said that his son left Alwar in his car on Sunday morning to attend meetings in the Behror region. “Near Belapur Dhani, some un-identified accused riding in two SUVs stopped the car of Mohit, pulled him out of the car and hit him badly with sticks. Somehow, Mohit escaped and saved himself,” said his father Jaswant Yadav.“When the nearby shopkeepers and villagers came, the crooks ran away. Three stitches had to be placed on the leg of the mother. There are more than a dozen injuries,” said the former minister.On the other hand, MLA Baljeet said that the former minister is calling the accident an attack for political gains.“Just to gain political mileage the allegations of attack have been made, but people can very easily recognise the fraud people. Police have filed a case of assault and attempt to kill on the basis of Mohit's statement. The investigation will be carried out by CID-CB which will reveal the truth,” the Behror MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-case-filed-against-rajasthan-mla-for-alleged-attempt-to-murder-101611569441575.html
25-01-2021||India||Deputy sarpanch in Chhattisgarh's Bastar killed by Maoists: Cops||A deputy sarpanch was killed allegedly by Maoists in the Kondagaon district of Bastar region, officials said on Monday.Officials said that the man died by strangulation and that the Maoists then fled into the jungle.“This incident took place in village Kermapal, about 55 km from the Kondagaon district headquarters bordering Narayanpur district. On the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, around a dozen Maoists reached the village and killed vice-sarpanch Bajaram Korram,” said Sidhharth Tiwari, Superintendent of Police of Kondagaon district.The SP further said the Maoists alleged that Korram was engaged in anti-people activity in the area since 2001. Police have launched a hunt for the Maoists, the SP added.On January 6, a sarpanch of a village in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar district was killed by Maoists at his home.The sarpanch of Chhindgur village, identified as Pandru (45), was killed after a group of Maoists stormed his house and slit his throat.Senior police officers believe that Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment.“There has been a decrease in recruitment of sentries in 2017-18. The other very important factor behind recent killings is that there is total indiscipline in ranks of Maoists, with local cadres now killing people without even taking approval of senior cadres. And lastly, there is total ideological disarray with movement becoming an armed war with no ethics,” an officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deputy-sarpanch-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-killed-by-maoists-cops-101611569271527.html
25-01-2021||India||`Vaccine Maitri' helps strengthen bilateral ties with Myanmar, says Indian envoy||India's gift of 1.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbouring Myanmar as part of its "Vaccine Maitri" drive will strengthen bilateral ties between the two neighbours, said Indian ambassador to Myanmar, Saurabh Kumar.While speaking to local journalist Ravinder Jain, the ambassador said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always said that India's capacities in the vaccine sector would be shared with partners and neighbours, so this is a part of that. As you know, Myanmar is a close neighbour, a good friend of India and there were discussions at high political level in this connection and what we are seeing is a consequence of that understanding which was reached between our two sides".Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a telephone conversation with Myanmar's State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi had conveyed India's readiness to provide all possible support for mitigating the health and economic impact of Covid-19.Myanmar has signed a contract with the Serum Institute of India to purchase 30 million doses of Covishield vaccine.Indian Army chief, General M M Naravane and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on their visit to Myanmar in October last year had handed over 3,000 vials of Remdesivir to State Counsellor Suu Kyi as part of India's contribution to help its neighbour in the fight against Covid-19.Ambassador Kumar added, "The visit of the foreign secretary and Army chief was a very important visit. The foreign secretary, of course, as you know had foreign office consultations with his counterpart through video conferencing before he came out here, and during the visit out here, he met the State Counsellor and along with the army chief, he also met Senior General Min Aung Hlaing and the visit of course provided opportunity to have discussions on the entire gamut of our relationship and what we do in the area of fighting against Covid pandemic was also one of the issues"Myanmar is one of India's strategic neighbours and shares a 1,640-km-long border with a number of north-eastern states including Nagaland and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maitri-helps-strengthen-bilateral-ties-with-myanmar-says-indian-envoy-101611568337355.html
25-01-2021||India||Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku La||China on Monday said its troops were committed to maintaining peace along the disputed border with India hours after reports in Indian media said soldiers from both sides had clashed near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area of Sikkim.Several Chinese and Indian soldiers were reportedly injured in a clash last week after the Indian troops stopped a People’s Liberation Army (PLA) patrol team from entering Indian territory at Naku La in Sikkim.The physical brawl between border troops took place ahead of the ninth round of military talks, held on Sunday on the disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction points along the LAC.The Chinese foreign ministry declined to confirm or deny the latest clash between the border troops during the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“On the specific (incident) you mentioned, I don’t have any information to offer. I would like to stress though the Chinese border troops are committed to upholding peace and tranquility along the border with India,” Zhao Lijian, ministry spokesperson, said.“We urge the Indian side to work in the same direction with us and refrain from actions that might escalate or complicate the situation along the border. We hope both will take proper actions to manage the differences and take concrete actions to safeguard the peace and stability along the border,” he added.Zhao said information on the latest round of talks will be released later.“I can confirm that a new round of talks has been held. The two sides upon agreement will release information in due course,” he said.A joint statement issued after the eighth round of military talks held at Chushul on November 6 had said both sides would continue dialogue on the disengagement,“The two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of China-India border areas,” the statement said.“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure their frontline troops to exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation.”“Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. They also agreed to have another round of meeting soon,” the statement added.Diplomatic talks have also failed to resolve the ongoing border friction between the two neighbours.Separate statements issued by the two sides after a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on December 18 had given no indication of forward movement in the disengagement and de-escalation process at friction points in the western sector of the LAC.Both sides said they would maintain consultations through diplomatic and military channels, and the Indian side said the disengagement should be in line with existing bilateral agreements and protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-peace-at-border-says-china-after-last-week-face-off-in-sikkim-101611567650616.html
25-01-2021||India||Obnoxious, unacceptable, outrageous: activists on Bombay HC judgement||Activists and child rights bodies have slammed the recent judgement of the Bombay High Court that there is no sexual assault if there is no 'skin-to-skin' contact.In a judgement passed on January 19, the Bombay High Court has said groping a minor's breast without 'skin-to-skin contact' cannot be termed sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault.It has drawn the ire of child rights bodies and activists, who have termed it "absolutely unacceptable, outrageous and obnoxious", and called for challenging the judgement.Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of child rights NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, said their legal team was looking into the matter and all the data related to this is being collected."We shall be appealing the Supreme court on the basis of their inputs," Tingal told PTI.Activist Kavita Krishnan, secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, called it an "outrageous judgement" that goes against the letter of the law."The POCSO law defines sexual assault very clearly and it has a provision for sexual touch. This notion that you will circumvent the law by saying touch with or without clothes makes no sense at all," Krishnan said."That is absolute rubbish and it fails the test of common sense also. For me, it's a larger question of who qualifies to be a judge in cases related to gender," she said.Yogita Bhayana, an activist who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), said it was disappointing to hear from a judge and such statements "motivate the criminals"."I really think it's very regressive of her to say this," Bhayana said.After the Nirbhaya case, Bhayana said they were trying to push that even verbal gestures are included as assault, adding that they wanted to be more progressive and move to issues of cyber bullying. "On other hand, they are talking about this!" she said.Prabhat Kumar, deputy director of Save the Children, said nowhere in the POCSO Act itself there is talk about skin-to-skin contact."The act talks about physical (abuse), which is largely the use of force to sexually assault. So we feel that this interpretation is not right," Kumar said."If there are inconsistencies in interpretation of this law, then we must choose the law with the stricter punishment for the person accused of the offence. So even that has not been complied with," he said.Women's rights activist Shamina Shafiq called it very unfortunate that a lady judge had come out with this judgement."As a woman, you must understand that groping while you are wearing clothes is very usual and unfortunately normal in this country and this is something that keeps on happening to women and girls. And to say such a thing will give ideas to men also and it will not act as a deterrent," Shafiq said."It's shocking and the judge is a woman. I absolutely fail to understand how a woman judge can pass this kind of judgement," social activist Shabnam Hashmi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obnoxious-unacceptable-outrageous-activists-on-bombay-hc-judgement-101611567233935.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day: Haryana CM’s programme changed, to hoist flag in Panchkula||A day before Republic Day, the Haryana government on Monday changed the chief guests of several district headquarters celebrations.As per the new schedule issued by the government, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will now hoist the national flag in Panchkula instead of Panipat. Shifting of Khattar’s programme has necessitated shifting of state Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s programme from Panchkula to Haryana Raj Bhawan at Chandigarh.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan confirmed the change. “Yes, we have got the information that now the state chief secretary will be the chief guest in Panipat as the CM’s programme has been shifted,” he said.Also read | Haryana issues travel advisory ahead of farmer’s tractor parade on Republic DayHowever, there has been no change in deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s schedule and he will unfurl the tricolour at Ambala. In other changes, minister of state Anoop Dhanak will now be in Faridabad for the celebrations instead of minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh.Similarly, minister of state for woman and child development, Kamlesh Dhanda, will unfurl the national flag at Nuh instead of Fatehabad.While no reason was given for shifting of the chief minister’s programme, officials monitoring the security arrangements for Republic Day said the venue for Khattar’s programme had to be changed following massive movement of farmers from Haryana and Punjab to Delhi.“Earlier, the chief minister was scheduled to unfurl the national flag at Shivaji ground in Panipat but the decision to shift his programme was taken on the recommendations of a team of top level officials reviewing security arrangements in Panipat on Sunday,” said an official requesting anonymity.Another reason could be that Panipat’s venue is only 16 km from Kaimla village of Karnal district where agitated farmers had ransacked the venue of Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat programme, forcing the chief minister to cancel his visit at the last moment on January 10.Moreover, farmers’ protests were on at Panipat and Karnal toll plazas and this could have created a law and order situation, said an official of Panipat Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-haryana-cm-s-programme-changed-to-hoist-flag-in-panchkula-101611567673748.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Check full list of Fire Service, Home Guards and Civil Defence medals awardees||The Union ministry of home affairs on Monday, on the eve of the Republic Day, announced the names of the fire service, home guards and civil defence personnel who will be awarded by President Ram Nath Kovind. On the 72nd Republic day, the President's Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is being awarded to eight personnel and the Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is being awarded to two personnel for their acts of valour and gallantry. The President’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished Service is being awarded to 13 personnel and the Fire Service Medal for Meritorious Service is being given to 50 personnel for their distinguished and meritorious records of services.In addition, as many as 54 personnel are also being awarded Home Guard and Civil Defence Medals. Of them, the President's Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Gallantry is awarded to three personnel and the President’s Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Distinguished Service and Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service will be awarded to four personnel and 47 personnel respectively.Here’s the full list of awardees:President’s Fire Service Medal for GallantryDelhi1. Satyavan - station officer2. Mahabir Singh - leading fireman3. Late Amit Kumar - fire operator4. Manjeet Rana - fire operatorJammu and Kashmir1. Late Rattan Chand - leading fireman2. Late Mohmad Aslam - SG fireman3. Late Vimal Raina - firemanTamil Nadu1. Late Rajkumar Rajenderan - firemanFire Service Medal for GallantryKarnataka1. Suganagouda- fireman driverOdisha1. Kasyap Kumar Pattanaik - leading firemanPresident’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished ServiceDaman & Diu1. Amratlal Carsane - assistant directorDelhi1. Rajesh Panwar - chief fire officer2. Sanjay Kumar Tomar - deputy chief fire officerKarnataka1. Basavanna Chikka Basavaiah - deputy director2. Praveen - assistant fire station officerKerala1. George TA - assistant station officerMaharashtra1. Devendra Prabhakar Potphode - chief fire officerOdisha1. Kamala Kanta Puhan - leading firemanSikkim1. Indra Kumar Rai- deputy chief fire officerCISF, MHA1. Pratap Singh Rawat - assistant sub-inspector (fire)2. Harisha Srinivasa - assistant sub-inspector (fire)3. Hambir Singh - assistant sub-inspector (fire)NFSC, MHA1. Jagdish Faqirchand Bathav - junior demonstratorFire Service Medal for Meritorious ServiceAndaman & Nicobar1. Moti Lal Paul - sub-inspector (station officer)Arunachal Pradesh1. Mali Buru - station officerAssam1. Gakul Chandra Das - sub-officer2. Bipul Kumar Das - leading firemanBihar1. Krishna Prasad Singh - fire station officer2. Sudama Ram - leading driverDaman & Diu1. Tulcidas Mangari - assistant station fire officerDelhi1. Rajesh Kumar - assistant divisional officer2. Yashwant Singh Meena - station officer3. Ram Pal - leading fireman4. Subhash Chander Barthwal - assistant wireless officerHimachal Pradesh1. Ashok Kumar - sub fire officerJammu & Kashmir1. Puran Singh - leading fireman2. Satpal Khajuria - leading firemanKarnataka1. G Krishnoji - fire station officer2. Bangera Yogesh Padmayya - Leading Fireman3. M Tulasairamappa - fireman driver4. Bedrala Ravindranath Rajesh - firemanKerala1. Abdul Rasheed K - regional fire officer2. Nasar P - senior fire and rescue officerMaharashtra1. Sanjay Dadaji Pawar - in charge chief fire officer2. Dharmaraj Narayanrao Nakod - assistant station officer3. Rajaram Kalu Kedari - leading firemanMeghalaya1. Wanlambok Lapang- leading firemanMizoram1. Vanlalruala - leading firemanNagaland1. AW Jamir - inspector(fire)Odisha1. Sarat Chandra Mallick - assistant fire officer2. Pradeep Kumar Pattanaik - station officer3. Prakash Kumar Behera - leading fireman4. Balabhadra Dehury - driver havildarSikkim1. Vishal Kumar Gurung - chief fire officerTamil Nadu1. Rathakrishnan Alagirisamy Raju - station officer2. Angamuthu Muthusamy - driver mechanic3. Muralidharan Naamath Cottatta - fireman driver4. Chellapandi Pitchai - firemanTelangana1. Yagna Narayana Annapareddy - district fire officer2. Jagadishwar Katta - leading firemanUttar Pradesh1. Santosh Kumar Rai - chief fire officerUttarakhand1. Daya Kishan - fire station second officer2. Kunwar Singh Rana - leading firemanWest Bengal1. Satyabrata Roy - station officer2. Sk.Emamul Hossain - sub-officer3. Rabin Kundu - leader4. Milan Kumar Dutta - fire operatorCISF, MHA1. Shiv Pratap - assistant commandant (fire)2. Manjunatha R - assistant sub-inspector (fire)NFSC, MHA1. Ramesh Ramaji Dharne - fire and rescue operatorM/o Petroleum & Natural Gas1. Dansingh Madavsingh Chaudhary - chief fireman2. Naizu Ambatt Varkey - deputy general manager (fire and safety)3. Deba Kanta Baruah - supervisor (fire service)President’s Home Guards & Civil Defence Medal for GallantryOdisha1. Late Banawasi Moharana - home guardRajasthan1. Late Kewal Singh - border home guard volunteer2. Late Bhawani Singh - border home guard volunteerPresident’s Home Guards & Civil Defence Medal for Distinguished ServiceDelhi1. Baljit Singh Solanki - addl. chief wardenHimachal Pradesh1. Priya Brat Sharma - company commanderOdisha1. Pradip Kumar Pattanaik - HG company commander2. Sudam Charan Pattanaik - HG platoon commanderHome Guards & Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious ServiceAndaman & Nicobar1. Annakutty Thomas - HG(R)/1542. G NeelaVeni - HG(R)/186Assam1. Hemanga Talukdar - junior staff officer2. Paresh Chandra Pathak - Subedar3. Atul Chandra Barman - platoon commander4. Mahadev Sharmah - platoon commander5. Gopal Chandra Das - post wardenBihar1. Abhay Kumar Sinha - home guard2. Laliteshwar Prasad - home guardChandigarh1. Sukhvir Singh - HG Platoon SergeantChhattisgarh1. Sanjay Kumar Mishra - district commandant2. Narsingh Netam - district commandant3. Jitendra Kumar Mishra - company quarter master4. Jeevan Lal Kannoje - Naik5. Gulab Singh Rajput - Lance Naik6. Govind Prakash Tawar - HG SainikDelhi1. Jeetendar Kumar Mahto - junior instructor2. Hirdesh Kumar Chauhan - field messenger3. Iqbal Singh Jagdeva - senior chief wardenGoa1. Minaxi Anant Kubal - Hon platoon commander2. Nayan Dipu Velingkar - HG volunteerGujarat1. Rajesh Kumar Keshavlal Bhoi - Sr instructor2. Kantibhai Ambalal Patel - junior staff officer3. Lalitchandra Harishankar Vyas - sub-inspector instructor4. Tejabhai Ramjibhai Solanki - Havaldar5. Karansinh Shivsinh Kumpavat (retd) - second in command6. Ashoksinh Laxmansinh Jadeja - subedar company commander7. Arvindbhai Ganpatbhai Benkar - naib subedar platoon commanderHaryana1. Mohit Sharma - chief wardenHimachal Pradesh1. Virender Singh Mehta - platoon commander2. Nageshwar Kumar- platoon commanderMadhya Pradesh1. Manish Singh Chauhan- Sr staff officer2. Mahesh Kumar Pandre - divisional commandant3. Priti Bala Singh - divisional commandantMeghalaya1. Thioris Sulein - havildar2. Pherson Ranee - lance naik3. Md Faruq Hussain - firemanOdisha1. Rajkumar Pal - platoon commander2. Bhawani Sankar Kanhar - home guard3. Sisirakant Sahu - home guard4. Akshaya Kumar Nayak - home guardRajasthan1. Ravindra Singh Chauhan - company commander2. Shashi Shekhar Sharma - platoon commanderTripura1. Akhil Debbarma - HG volunteerUttarakhand1. Lalit Mohan Joshi - divisional commandant2. Chandrakishore - InspectorMinistry of railway1. B Baskar - Sr CD inspector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-check-full-list-of-fire-service-home-guards-and-civil-defence-medals-awardees-101611566958429.html
25-01-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling Case: Court grants bail to M Sivasankar||Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate's (Economic Offences) Court on Monday granted bail to M Sivasankar, former principal secretary at the Kerala Chief Minister's Office in the Kerala Gold Smuggling Case.This is in the case registered by the Customs Department. The court granted him bail because the customs didn't file the charge sheet in the case.But Sivasankar will remain in the prison because the case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) still exists.The Kerala gold smuggling case pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels. It had come to light after 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5, 2019.It is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Investigative Agency (NIA) and Customs department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-court-grants-bail-to-m-sivasankar-101611566705701.html
25-01-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, others on plea against electronic media||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Central government and others on Public Interest Litigation (PIL) for setting up an independent, regulatory tribunal or judicial-body, that can hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon a complaint against the electronic media filed by the viewers for hate speech, fake news, paid news, communal propaganda.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, agreed to hear the PIL and sought the responses of the government and others.The petition filed by film-maker Nilesh Navalakha and a civil engineer Nitin Memane sought direction for an independent high-powered committee headed by former CJI or Supreme Court judge to review the entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines for it.The tribunal can bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality, the petition said.The plea further stated that it is not seeking to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business. It added that the plea only wants to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy.The PIL urged the top court to set up a media tribunal to adjudicate upon complaints against media, channels, and networks, saying media, particularly the electronic one, has become like an "unruly horse, which needs to be tamed"."The restrictions on the electronic media must be placed at a higher footing as over the last few years, media trials have become the order of the day. These trials not only have a prejudicial effect on the rights of the accused but also its very concept is an anathema to the administration of justice," PIL added.It further sought guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, broadcasters, and electronic media, can exercise their rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution, so as to judicially regulate them.The PIL said, "the whole self-regulatory process makes the electronic media broadcaster a judge in his own case. Since its role has changed, from service to business, and from mission to the profession, in such circumstances, it cannot mechanically be referred to as the fourth pillar, to avert all judicial attempts at regulating it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-others-on-plea-against-electronic-media-101611566802588.html
25-01-2021||India||NSO releases employment outlook report, new registrations show recovery began June 2020||The National Statistical Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme has released the payroll report from September 2017 to November 2020. The report shows that around 38 million new subscribers joined the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) scheme with around 45 million subscribing to the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme and over 2 million contributed to the National Pension Scheme (NPS) of the Centre, state governments and corporate schemes during the same period.The ministry brings out the employment-related statistics in the formal sector covering the period September 2017 onwards, using the information on the number of subscribers who have subscribed under the three major schemes. The next report is scheduled to come on February 25, 2021.Here are the key points:1. From September 2017 to November 2020, there has been an increase of over a million in new female subscribers to the EPF scheme with the same increase in new male subscribers.2. The new subscription in EPF scheme saw a major decline for both men and women from April 2018 to March 2020. While around 13.9 million new workforces joined the EPF scheme during the period of 2018 to 2019, the new subscriptions fell to around 10.5 million from 2019 to 2020.3. April 2020 saw the least number of new subscriptions to the EPF scheme with around 150,000 men entering the scheme, while only 40,000 women joined the scheme.4. While there has been an increase in the number of women registering for the ESI scheme from 2017 to 2020 the gap between the two genders enrolling in the ESI scheme remains huge.5. As of March 2020, around 12.4 million men joined the ESI scheme and paid a contribution towards while only 2.7 million women registered for the scheme and are paying for it.6. The least registration in the ESI scheme for both men and women in the formal sector came in the month of April 2020 post the coronavirus-induced lockdown at the end of March.Also Read | EPFO settles 56.79 lakh Covid-19 advance claims﻿7. As per the report maximum number of new contributors for NPS were the non-government corporate sector employees.8. As of March 2020, over 757,000 new subscribers contributed to the NPS scheme from the corporate sector in comparison to 496,000 state government employees and the least contribution from the central government with 118,000 new subscribers contributing to the scheme.9. However, the gap between the male employees and female employees contributing to the NPS scheme is huge in all three sectors. Less than 50 per cent of the new subscribers to the NPS scheme were women.10. The central government saw maximum new subscribers to the NPS scheme in April 2020, after that the contributions from the sector declined.11. For the state government and corporate sector, minimum contributions came in the month of April 2020 and June 2020 respectively.12. In all the three schemes, the number of new registrations increased after June 2020, the time when the coronavirus restrictions started easing out in the country.12. The total number of registrations in the EPF scheme and ESI scheme was maximum in September 2020, giving signs of recovery.14. The new subscriptions in all the three schemes from the other gender have shown an increase from 2017 to 2020 the report showed their representation in the formal workforce is still very low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nso-releases-employment-outlook-report-new-registrations-show-recovery-began-june-2020-101611561955457.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present, Shiv Sena sends youth wing leader||Leaders of the prominent parties in Maharashtra joined a gathering of farmers at Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday. These farmers will march towards the Raj Bhavan to protest against the contentious farm laws and in solidarity with those protesting at the Delhi borders for about two months now.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap, Jitendra Awhad, Jayant Patil from Peasants and Workers Party of India and president of the Maharashtra unit of Samajwadi Party, Abu Azmi, are present at the venue.No Shiv Sena leader is present at the venue of the public meeting. The Sena's youth wing leader Rahul Londhe has been sent as party's representative. The Sena, along with NCP and Congress, is running the government in Maharashtra.Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, Pawar said that those holding power do not care for farmers and labourers of this country."The discussion over the farm laws began when I was the Union agriculture minister in 2003-04. We discussed them with the agriculture ministers of all the states. The deliberations remained inconclusive. The BJP government passed these laws without any debate and in a single day in Parliament," said Pawar."Mumbai had played an important role in freedom fight, unified Maharashtra movement and now will play a key role in this fight against the farm laws too," the NCP chief added. He also said that there won't be any compromise on the Minimum Support Price (MSP).Thorat, meanwhile, said that the three contentious laws were passed without any debate to facilitate a few industrialists."We extend support to all farmers protesting for the past two months against the three farm laws passed by the Modi government. The government subjected farmers to water cannons in freezing winters," he said."The laws have been made for businessmen. These laws will not only affect farmers but everyone, as you will have to pay more to buy farm produce," the Congress leader said, calling the January 26 tractor rally a "massive uprising".All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), one of the constituents of the farmers' protest, claimed "tremendous support" from other organisations."In the past 13 days, thousands of farmers have gathered to support this struggle. We have received tremendous support from sister organisations and other labour organisations. All the political and social organisations standing up to the BJP are gathered in a show of strength here," said AIKS president Ashok Dhawale.Narendra Modi and Amit Shah's government will be left shaken, he added."The farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal have been protesting at Delhi for past two months, against all odds, tear gas and water cannons used by the government. 150 farmers have laid their lives. I condemn the government for how it has handled this situation," said Dhawale.The leaders from Peasants and Workers Party said that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) should be applicable for all farm produce."MSP should be applicable for all farm produce. The government should purchase all produce. If anyone tries to bargain on MSP, action should be taken against them," said party leader Jayant Patil.The contract employees of the solid waste management department of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also present at Azad Maidan to show their support to farmers' protest.The protest march is a part of agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), which aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in capital cities across all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-will-be-left-shaken-say-farmer-leaders-at-mumbai-rally-101611566159964.html
25-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi for being tight-lipped on Chinese intrusion||In a fresh jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday slammed the PM for being tight-lipped on the issue of Chinese intrusion into the Indian territory.This comes as several Indian soldiers were injured in a physical brawl with the Chinese soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last week near Naku La area in Sikkim. The Indian Army on Monday clarified that it was "minor face-off" between the troops on January 20.The face-off was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols, the Army said in a statement.In his latest tweet, Gandhi said, "China is expanding its occupation into Indian territory. Mr 56" hasn't said the word 'China' for months. Maybe he can start by saying the word 'China'."Gandhi had on Sunday blamed the central government for Chinese intrusion into India.If India's labourers, farmers and weavers were strong, protected and given opportunities, China would never dare to come inside India, the Congress leader had said on Sunday.Gandhi had further alleged that China has understood that Indian economy is on its knees, and every action of the government is designed to strengthen five-six big business people.The former Congress president is on a three-day visit to the western belt in Tamil Nadu. He is interacting with farmers, weavers, and the general public over there.Gandhi is in the state till today and is also scheduled to visit the Dindigul district.Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu in April-May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-for-being-tight-lipped-on-chinese-intrusion-101611565212088.html
25-01-2021||India||UP withdraws transfer petition on unlawful conversion ordinance from SC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday withdrew its transfer petition on the contentious law prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by marriage from the Supreme Court. The state government had filed this petition asking for the transfer of those challenging the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, from Allahabad High Court to the top court.The state wanted these petitions to be heard along with two petitions pending in SC on which notice has already been issued. "By issuing notice we have not said that no HC can hear the matter. People these days are taking high courts lightly," a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said.Senior advocate PS Narasimha, who appeared for the state government, told the top court that the petitions in SC are coming up on February 2 while those in the high court will come up on February 6. "If Allahabad HC is seized of the case we will not hear it before that on February 2... We have issued notice not to trigger this transfer petition," the bench said.As the bench was not inclined, UP sought permission to withdraw its plea.The Uttar Pradesh ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020”, which was promulgated on November 24, outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement.The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to ₹15,000 for those convicted under it. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-withdraws-transfer-petition-on-unlawful-conversion-ordinance-from-sc-101611564127453.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind, PM Modi hail ECI’s contribution on National Voters’ Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind hailed the immense contribution made by the Election Commission of India in ensuring free and fair elections, even during the seemingly insurmountable Covid-19 crisis, on Monday, celebrated as National Voters’ Day. The voters’ day event was inaugurated by President Kovind, who virtually graced the occasion. He conferred the National Awards for the year 2020-21 and also launched the Election Commission of India’s web radio: ‘Hello Voters’ – an online digital radio service.“I would like to remind the people that we should always respect the valuable right to vote,” Kovind said. “The right to vote is not a simple right; people around the world have struggled a lot for this. Since independence, our Constitution has given equal voting rights to all citizens without any discrimination on the basis of merit, religion, race, caste. For this, we are indebted to the makers of our Constitution.”Also Read: SC refuses to entertain plea seeking ‘free and fair’ polls in West BengalHe also highlighted the contributed of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, in ensuring that every citizen has access to universal adult franchise. He also praised the ECI for conducting successful and safe elections in Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the contribution of the Commission in strengthening democracy by ensuring the smooth conduct of elections. “National Voters’ Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth,” tweeted PM Modi on Monday.Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad unveiled the new digital voter ID card, which can be downloaded by any voter remotely after a basic KYC process. The Election Commission of India on Monday, 25 January, rolled out a host of initiatives to mark the 11th National Voters’ Day celebrations. These include the digital voter id card or e-EPIC, the EC’s web radio and special booklet on National Voters’ Day.Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said that the “great experiment”, the first general election held after independence, which subsequently earned the epithet of being “an act of faith”, had not only succeeded but has sustained itself. “Even when the architecture of elections was being debated in the Constituent Assembly, the concern for inscribing institutional safeguards for ensuring that no voter was excluded from the Electoral Rolls prompted Dr BR Ambedkar to move a ‘radical amendment on June 15,1949 to set up an integrated centralised Election Commission for the country,” he said. “What prompted Dr Ambedkar to propose this change was the concept of inclusion and the focus on the voter as central to the act of conducting elections.”Arora added that 2021 marks a new beginning with the launch of the digital voter card facility. “Also, Hello Voters, ECI’s own web radio and a first of its kind initiative will help us connect with our voters, listen to their stories and experiences of voting, and share our initiatives and information,” he said. The outgoing CEC said that the Commission would leverage its experience from Bihar to conduct and prepare for the upcoming elections in four states of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Assam, and the Union Territory of Puducherry, due in the next few months. “We will leverage the experience gained in the Bihar election and ensure that these elections are free, fair, transparent, participative, ethical and safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-hail-eci-s-contribution-on-national-voters-day-101611563473453.html
25-01-2021||India||Man arrested for rape of 6-year-old girl in MP’s Bhind district||A man has been arrested in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh for raping a six-year-old girl on Sunday, said police.The man was booked under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on Sunday night.Lahar police station in-charge Upendra Chhari said, “The girl was playing with her brother outside her house when the accused took her with him.”“When the girl didn’t return home till late, the brother told the family that she had gone with the accused. The girl was found crying at the house of the accused,” said the police. Also read | 50-year-old widow raped in UP’s Mahoba, accused abscondingThe family then informed the police. The girl was rushed to a hospital where her condition is said to be stable. Her mother said, “The accused, who lives in the neighbourhood, used to play with my daughter and she called him uncle. We want him punished.” Police arrested the accused and he will be produced in court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-rape-of-6-year-old-girl-in-mp-s-bhind-district-101611563414360.html
25-01-2021||India||Surat woman to travel 10,000 km on truck to provide essentials to needy on R-Day||To promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Sashakt Nari, Sashakt Bharat' (Strong Women, Strong India), a woman from Surat district will commence a truck drive on Republic Day, covering a journey of 10,000 km to provide essential commodities to the needy.Durriya Mustafa Tapia, the founder of Movers Charity Trust, will drive a truck, covering 13 states in 35 days across the country including 4,500 underprivileged villages."I will drive the truck completing a journey of 10,000 km by covering 13 states including 4,500 underprivileged villages," Tapia told ANI.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Tapia's Trust provided food to over 2,500 people in Surat and now it is planning to expand the initiative nationwide."Our trust provided food to 2,500 to 3,000 people in Surat amid the pandemic. I feel that we should expand this initiative nationwide and provide food, reusable mask, sanitary pads, dustbins, and sanitizers to the needy," she said.Under Sashakt Nari, Sashakt Bharat, the central government is focusing on women empowerment. Several initiatives like 'Beti Padhao Beti Bachao' to better education facilities for women are being undertaken by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-woman-to-travel-10-000-on-truck-on-r-day-to-provide-essentials-to-needy-101611561835248.html
25-01-2021||India||Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel conferred to 52. Full list here||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday approved the conferment of Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel on the Republic Day to 52 officials. Here’s the full list of the awardees:President’s Correctional Service Medals for Distinguished Service1. Saji Kumar J., assistant superintendent Gr.II - Kerala2. MV Thomas, deputy superintendent- Kerala3. Gopal Prasad Tamrakar, superintendent- Madhya Pradesh4. Ramesh Chandra Arya, superintendent - Madhya Pradesh5. Mahavir Singh Rawat, deputy superintendent- Madhya Pradesh6. Sujata Das, district probation officer- Odisha7. Debaraj Pradhan, chief warder- Odisha8. Maheswar Behera, warder- Odisha9. Arvind Kumar Singh, senior superintendent, Uttar Pradesh10. Mohd. Akram Khan, superintendent - Uttar Pradesh11. Ved Prakash, assistant superintendent- Delhi12. Shivli Ram Meena, head warder- DelhiCorrectional Service Medal for Meritorious Service1. Arun Kumar, chief head warder- Andhra Pradesh2. Arigela Ratna Raju, head warder- Andhra Pradesh3. Brajen Das, superintendent- Assam4. Deendayal Dhruw, head warder, Chhattisgarh5. Pushplata Bhagat, warder- Chhattisgarh6. Ajit Singh, sub assistant superintendent jail- Haryana7. Dilip Kumar Bhan, section officer- Jammu & Kashmir8. Iqbal Ahmed, warder (SG)- Jammu & Kashmir9. B Suresha, assistant superintendent- Karnataka10. MS Kumar, assistant jailor- Karnataka11. Antony K, assistant superintendent Gr.II- Kerala12. Sam Thankayyan, DIG of prisons- Kerala13. TK Janardhanan Nambiar, deputy superintendent- Kerala14. Ajay Bahadur Singh, head warder- Madhya Pradesh15. Rampal Singh, warder- Madhya Pradesh16. Iqbal Ahmed, head warder- Madhya Pradesh17. Uttam Vishwanath Gawde, havildar- Maharashtra18. Santosh Babla Manchekar, havildar- Maharashtra19. Baban Namdev Khandare, havildar- Maharashtra20. Thamsel Lamkang, chief head warder- Manipur21. W Chaoba Singh, head warder- Manipur22. D Ramesh, warder- Odisha23. Bhagaban Pradhan, warder- Odisha24. Govind Singh, superintendent Gr.II- Rajasthan25. Ajeet Singh, deputy jailor- Rajasthan26. Chotu Singh, warder, Rajasthan27. Nim Tshering Bhutia, sub jailor- Sikkim28. M Sakthivel, deputy jailor, Tamil Nadu29. R Joseph Antony, grade I warder- Tamil Nadu30. V Chandraiah, chief head warder-Telangana31. Gaddam Somasekhar Reddy, chief head warder- Telangana32. G Dynamma, chief head warder- Telangana33. Bidhu Dutt Pandey, superintendent- Uttar Pradesh34. Anand Kumar, head jail warder- Uttar Pradesh35. Amal Karmakar, head warder-West Bengal36. Ramesh Paswan, head warder-West Bengal37. Uttam Saha, warder-West Bengal38. Hari Prasad, head warder-Delhi39. Dharamvir, head warder-DelhiCorrectional Service Medal for Gallantry1. Late Sukhdas Swami, warder- Rajasthan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/correctional-service-medals-on-prison-personnel-conferred-to-52-full-list-here-101611560812813.html
25-01-2021||India||Parliament: New chambers to provide better ‘line of sight’ for MPs||The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers in the new Parliament building will be designed not just to accommodate more lawmakers and additional comfort, but also provide a better “line of sight” for them. In the existing Lok Sabha chamber, the key sections of the treasury bench and the Opposition rows—where the top leaders of each side sit—face each other but the table of the secretariat, that is placed between them, blocks the view from both sides. The secretariat’s table is an integral part of the chamber. It’s where the secretary general, other senior officials and the Parliamentary reporters sit to assist the Speaker. According to Bimal Patel, the chief architect tasked to design the building complex, the seating arrangement for MPs would be such that each parliamentarian would get 60cm by 60cm space to sit on the new benches under the new arrangement. The MPs will sit comfortably in broad two-seater benches, accessible from either side so that no one will have to squeeze through — and which can, when a joint session is held, accommodate three persons, HT had reported in January. Patel had also pointed desks will be arranged for all MPs to be accommodated as opposed to the current setting where desks are limited only for the first few rows. For joint sessions the desks will accommodate three MPs instead of two. In the new,horseshoe-shaped chambers, the secretariat’s table will be again placed between the two sides but 1.5 feet lower than the current height. “This has been planned to give an uninterrupted view of the treasury bench and the Opposition bench,” said an official. Also Read: Hardeep Puri Interview: On Central Vista, Adani airports row, vaccine exportsIf it’s done, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other top government leaders as well as Opposition leaders such as Sonia Gandhi or Mulayam Singh Yadav or Adhir Chowdhury can have a full view of the Lok Sabha. This was discussed and approved during a recent briefing meeting with Speaker Om Birla. Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and Parliament officials were present at the meeting to discuss the plans. Another proposal of CPWD, to put some barriers along the front row that would effectively stop Opposition MPs from rushing into the Well of the House, was promptly rejected by Birla. According to officials present in the meeting, “Birla said such things (barriers) don’t go with the democratic spirit of Lok Sabha. The Opposition will do its job and the government will do its work.” Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chambers will be spacious with lobbies to accommodate a larger number of MPs, keeping in mind the current delimitation of Parliament seats will end in 2026 and any new arrangement as per the 1991 census might see more MPs in the House. The proposed new Parliament building will have a seating capacity for 888 members in the Lok Sabha chamber, with an option to increase it to 1,224 members during joint sessions. Similarly, the Rajya Sabha chamber would have a seating capacity for 384 members, according to its latest plan. The proposed building, spread over four floors, will also use motifs and murals of India’s national flower lotus and national bird peacock for a dash of distinctive identity. A banyan tree—the country’s national tree—will be planted at a prominent place inside the new complex, officials involved in the planning said on Friday. India’s national emblem will also sit atop the new Parliament building, HT had reported on September 16, 2020. Work on the new Parliament building began on Friday and is scheduled to be completed by next year. The building will by Tata Projects Ltd. at cost of ₹971 crore and would have a built-up area of 64,500 square metres. The existing circular building, completed in 1927, is most famous for its 144 columns but it too has some recognisable Indian touches. The use of fountains both inside and outside the building, desi-style balconies and different forms of marble ‘jali’ bear symbols of Indian heritage. The new building, to be constructed right in front of the existing one, will use the motifs or visual reliefs in a more contemporary way, as per the plan. These symbols of India’s national bird, flower and tree are also expected to contribute to the visuals of the new-era building. “One House will have lotus motifs while the other House will see peacock-inspired relief. There will be no Central Hall, but a central lounge will be available for MPs to socialise in,” said an official. The central foyer has been renamed the Constitution Hall as it is expected to display the Constitution for public viewing. A library will also come up near the central foyer. It will have sculptures of parliamentarians and images representing the diversity of India. At one side of the Constitution Hall will be the Constitution gallery, where the Constitution will be displayed. The triangular complex is also designed to include 120 offices with six separate entrances for member of the public, MPs and VIPs, including the Speaker and the vice-president. The current plan, according to Patel, comprises “the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and an open-to-sky courtyard around which there would be a lounge and in the middle there will be a foyer.” CPWD will also build an office complex for MPs in place of the Shram Shakti Bhawan that would connect the Parliament complex through an underground pathway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-new-chambers-to-provide-better-line-of-sight-for-mps-101611562333479.html
25-01-2021||India||India offers Covid-19 vaccination to diplomats of foreign missions, families||The Indian government has offered Covid-19 vaccination to diplomats of foreign missions and their family members as a “gesture of goodwill and solidarity”, people familiar with developments said on Monday. A letter sent to foreign missions by the protocol division of the external affairs ministry last week sought names and details of diplomats and family members who want to be vaccinated “on a voluntary basis”, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The letter didn’t specify any dates for the vaccination of the diplomats or give other details, such as the vaccine to be used, two diplomats based in New Delhi said on condition of anonymity. “The Government of India, as a gesture of goodwill and solidarity, is considering to offer Covid-19 vaccination to eligible foreign diplomats and their family members accredited to all Diplomatic Missions, including Consulates, United Nations and its specialised agencies and other international organisations, based in India,” the letter said. “The vaccination would be on a voluntary basis, and in accordance with the phased plan of domestic roll-out,” it added. The letter further said modalities, including a timeframe and venues, are being worked out. The diplomats were asked to provide certain details, such as co-morbidities. Also read | India adds 13,203 Covid-19 cases, 131 deaths; tally over 10.66 millionIndia has so far donated nearly five million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, to seven countries in the neighbourhood, including Bangladesh and Myanmar. It also plans to provide more doses as grant assistance to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. Commercial supplies of vaccines began with the rolling out of two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco and more supplies are expected to be sent in the coming days to South Africa, Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh. India has inoculated more than 1.6 million frontline and health workers so far under the vaccination drive launched on January 16. A decision by foreign missions on availing of India’s vaccination offer will depend on whether their countries have approved one of the two vaccines being made in India, Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. A growing number of countries have approved the AstraZeneca vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-offers-covid-vaccination-to-diplomats-of-foreign-missions-families-101611562033286.html
25-01-2021||India||PM Modi interacts with Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees, encourages them to keep working on their talent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually interacted with several children who were awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar. The students are being conferred with the award Bal Shakti Puraskar under the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar by the government to recognise children with outstanding achievements and contributions in various fields.The award is given to the children with exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments, in the fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery. Thirty-two children from across the country have applied for the award this year.The interaction began with the Prime Minister talking to mountain climber Kaamya Kartikeyan, who continued her training even during the coronavirus pandemic and is working for her next summit in Jammu and Kashmir's Gulmarg. "I continued training during the pandemic. I will be climbing Mt Denali in North America later this year. Currently, I am training for my next climb in Gulmarg," Kartikeyan said to which PM said that the youngster converted the challenge into an opportunity."I make paintings based on the environment. In order to spread the message of conservation of the environment. My parents' support meant a lot," said Venish Keisham from Manipur during the interaction.Also Read | On National Voters' Day, PM Modi praises EC's 'remarkable contribution'The Prime Minister interacted with Dakshina from Karnataka, who was awarded for making multipurpose digital technology for up-gradation in farming techniques. PM Modi was intrigued with the innovative approach in the agrarian culture thought by the young mind. Innovation in agriculture is the need of the hour, the Prime Minister said.Mohammad Shadab from Uttar Pradesh was another young awardee with whom the Prime Minister interacted. Shadab is the Yuva ambassador currently in the United States. He idolises former president APJ Abdul Kalam and aims to work for human rights and represent India in the forum of the United Nations.Prime Minister Modi interacted with many more such great achievers who are from different fields and acknowledged the diversity in the fields ranging from sports, arts, literature, social service, bravery digital tech and innovation, archery etc.He encouraged the students to keep an eye on their goal and not only work for themselves but keep in mind that it's the country that will reap benefits from their innovative actions. He asked the awardees to read at least one autobiography in a year to always keep themselves motivated. He said a country progresses when its youngsters join the cause and asked them to keep working on their talent to make the country proud and inspire others around them.The interaction took place in presence of the Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-awardees-101611560913574.html
25-01-2021||India||SC seeks Centre's reply on PIL seeking setting up of media tribunal||The Supreme Court Monday sought responses from the Centre, Press Council of India (PCI) and the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) on a PIL seeking setting up of a media tribunal to adjudicate on complaints against media, channels and networks.A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took note of the plea which also sought setting up of an independent committee headed by either by a former Chief Justice of India or an apex court judge to review the entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines.Besides the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, PCI and NBA, the bench also issued notices to News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) and News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) on the PIL filed jointly by film maker, Nilesh Navalakha and civil engineer Nitin Memane in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing.The plea said media, particularly the electronic, has become like an unruly horse which needs to be tamed.The top court tagged the PIL with a pending plea on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-pil-seeking-setting-up-of-media-tribunal-101611558859956.html
25-01-2021||India||Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plans||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggression in Naku La area of north Sikkim on January 20 and the intrusion of 13 Chinese warplanes into Taiwan’s southwest air defence identification zone, mere three days after the swearing-in of Joe Biden as US President, are a grim reminder that Beijing is on a warpath and has no interest in compromising with what it unilaterally defines as its core interests.While the Indian Army official statement to Naku La said that it was a minor face-off, reports from the ground indicate that the PLA is in an aggressive mode on the border with India in Sikkim as well as Bhutan. This is a repeat of a skirmish between two armies on May 10, 2020, after the PLA aggression on the north banks of Pangong Tso. The Sikkim brawl virtually coincides with the violation of Taiwan airspace by the PLA Air Force (PLAAF).Also read | Indian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: OfficialsWhile the US navy responded simultaneously by sending in Nimitz class Theodore Roosevelt carrier group into the South China Sea, the Indian Army troopers have also responded to the PLA aggression by inflicting injuries on the intruding adversary. However, the Chinese moves are indicative of a dangerous trend that could destabilise the entire region.The latest actions indicate the following:1. The new PLA western theatre commander Zhang Xudong is as aggressive towards India as was the previous commander Zhao Zongqi. This means that instructions to put pressure on India and Bhutan are coming from the Central Military Commission (CMC), which is headed by paramount leader Xi Jinping.2. While the situation is stable in north Sikkim, the latest face-off will have a spill-over effect on the disengagement and de-escalation dialogue with the PLA in east Ladakh. To top it all, there is pressure building up in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh with the PLA rapidly strengthening its border infrastructure.3. Just like China absorbed Hong Kong with new security law, its military aggression against Taiwan is designed to expand and consolidate what it claims as its own territory. This is a test of Joe Biden’s Indo-Pacific policy as the so-called Asia pivot of his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama never fructified.4. In spite of the previous Trump administration passing a law on naming the successor to the 14th Dalai Lama, Beijing will continue towards its Fortress Tibet policy and will not allow any outside interference in the Sinchisation of Tibet.5. The PLA will try to portray disengagement and disengagement from east Ladakh in such a way that its sanctity of its 1959 Green Line is not violated to its domestic audience.Although the Indian Army has classified the Naku La incident as a minor face-off, the PLA will continue to project dominance in 2021—the 100th year of Chinese Communist Party rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naku-la-face-off-and-taiwan-show-of-force-are-part-of-beijing-expansionist-plans-101611557834231.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Defence Min launches gallantry awards portal on R-Day eve and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Defence Min launches gallantry awards portal on R-Day eveDefence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.” Read moreIndian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: OfficialsIndian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a brawl in north Sikkim last week, with soldiers from both armies suffering injuries, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. Read more‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drillIndian armed forces conducted a large-scale joint military training exercise ‘Kavach’ along with “AMPHEX-21” in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal on Monday. Performed under the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the drill saw the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard. Read moreBorders tightened as coronavirus curfew fury spills overBorder restrictions were being tightened around the world Monday in the face of an unrelenting coronavirus threat, after a weekend in which anger at social distancing rules bubbled over into fiery clashes in the Netherlands. Read moreHere's what Varun Dhawan and Natasha Dalal wore for their close-knit weddingLongtime sweethearts Varun Dhawan and Natasha Dalal tied the knot last night. Celebrities including Karan Johar and Manish Malhotra were present at the venue to give the newlyweds their blessings. Read more'This is MS Dhoni's specialty': Gautam Gambhir explains why CSK had the 'right strategy' in retaining key playersFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir believes that Chennai Super Kings had the right strategy in retaining most of their senior players. Read moreElectric vehicles to dominate in India by 2030: MahindraElectric-vehicle sales should overtake gas guzzlers in India by the end of the decade as prices become more aligned and infrastructure and technology improves, hopefully with help from the government, according to Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Read moreWatch: 'Won't need Army, Navy, Air Force if...': Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi over ChinaRahul Gandhi invoked China face-off during Tamil Nadu campaign. The congress leader linked China's aggression to economy. Gandhi said Chinese president should be wearing made in India shirt. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-defence-min-launches-gallantry-awards-portal-on-r-day-eve-101611557645563.html
25-01-2021||India||India records lowest Covid-19 deaths in 8 months, active cases continue to fall||India on Monday reported the lowest number of daily deaths caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in eight months as 131 people succumbed across the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. Seven states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, have contributed 80.15 per cent of the 131 fatalities logged in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The country also clocked 13,203 new Covid-19 cases and 13,298 recoveries in the last 24 hours. As per the health ministry, there has been a net decline of 226 active cases in the last 24 hours too. India's active Covid-19 cases are on a continuous decline as the caseload further fell to 184,182 on Monday. The share of active cases in the total positive cases recorded in the country has plummeted to 1.73 per cent, data by the Union health ministry showed.The health ministry said two states in the country contribute 65 per cent to the active coronavirus caseload. Kerala and Maharashtra are responsible for more than 64.71 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in the country with Kerala's share at 39.7 per cent and Maharashtra contributing 25 per cent.India caseload has mounted over 10.66 million with more than 10.33 million recoveries and over 153,000 deaths. The recovery rate of the country is 96.83 per cent. According to the health ministry, more than 1.6 million healthcare workers have been as of Monday morning during the country's mammoth vaccination. And, 33,303 people were vaccinated against the deadly coronavirus disease across 694 sessions in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry. The maximum number of people who have been vaccinated is in Karnataka at around 191,000, followed by Odisha at 152,000 and Andhra Pradesh at 147,000, the ministry said.The country began the world's largest immunisation programme on January 16 and has also started to export the vaccines to countries across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-lowest-covid-19-deaths-in-8-months-active-cases-continue-to-fall-101611558191616.html
25-01-2021||India||On R-Day eve, Rajnath Singh launches revamped gallantry awards portal||Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.”“I am extremely happy to be launching the revamped version of the gallantry awards portal,” Singh said, adding that it was a solemn tribute from the nation to the bravehearts and their families. Singh also mentioned how the country had faced numerous challenges since Independence, including the various wars it has fought with its neighbouring countries. “All these front wars, proxy wars or counter-terror operations, our soldiers faced these challenges and have protected the country’s sovereignty,” he said.He also mentioned several defence-related promises the central government has fulfilled, including the One Rank One Pension (OROP) and the National Defence Memorial. Singh also spoke about the ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ portal launched by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in April 2017, during his tenure as the Union home minister.Speaking on the new gallantry awards portal, the defence minister said it would give information, 24x7, on martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for India. The portal, Singh said, would instill patriotism among the youth of the nation. He also made mention of initiatives like e-magazine ‘Shauryavan,’ launched alongside the portal, as well as the month-long “Gallantry Awards for India” quiz and the “Selfie with bravehearts.” The portal also has a section for “Tributes” and “Pledges.”According to the portal, there have been 4,296 gallantry awardee till date. Of these, 21 have won the Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest military decoration which is awarded for “most conspicuous bravery in the presence of the enemy.” And, 20 of them have been from the Indian Army and one from the Indian Air Force (IAF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-r-day-eve-rajnath-singh-launches-revamped-gallantry-awards-portal-101611558189368.html
25-01-2021||India||Richest Indian's wealth rose 35% during pandemic, lakhs lost jobs, lives: Oxfam||India's 100 top billionaires have seen their fortunes increase by ₹12,97,822 crore since March last year when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country and this amount is enough to give 13.8 crore poorest Indians a cheque for ₹94,045 each.The latest India supplement of the Oxfam report 'The Inequality Virus' said it would take an unskilled worker 10,000 years to make what businessman Mukesh Ambani made in an hour during the pandemic and three years to make what he made in a second.The report has been released on the opening day of the World Economic Forum's 'Davos Dialogues'.Calling the coronavirus pandemic the world's worst public health crisis in a hundred years, the report said it triggered an economic crisis comparable in scale only with the Great Depression of the 1930s."India's 100 billionaires have seen their fortunes increase by ₹12,97,822 crores since March last year which is enough to give every one of the 138 million poorest Indians a cheque for ₹94,045 each," the report said.The new global survey of 295 economists from 79 countries, commissioned by Oxfam, reveals that 87 per cent of respondents, including Jeffrey Sachs, Jayati Ghosh and Gabriel Zucman, expect an "increase" or a "major increase" in income inequality in their country as a result of the pandemic."India has the world's fourth lowest health budget in terms of its share of government expenditure," it said. "If India's top 11 billionaires are taxed at just 1 per cent on the increase in their wealth during the pandemic, it will be enough to increase the allocation of Jan Aushadi Scheme by 140 times, which provides affordable medicines to the poor and marginalized."India introduced one of the earliest and most stringent lockdowns in the face of the pandemic and its enforcement brought the economy to a standstill, triggering unemployment, hunger, distress migration and untold hardship in its wake, the report said."The rich were able to escape the pandemic's worst impact; and while the white-collar workers isolated themselves and worked from home, a majority of the not-so-fortunate Indians lost their livelihood," it said.The report noted that billionaires like Gautam Adani, Shiv Nadar, Cyrus Poonawalla, Uday Kotak, Azim Premji, Sunil Mittal, Radhakrishan Damani, Kumar Manglam Birla and Laxmi Mittal working in sectors like coal, oil, telecom, medicines, pharmaceutical, education and retail increased their wealth exponentially since March 2020 when India announced world's biggest Covid-19 lockdown and economy came to standstill.On the other hand, data has shown that 170,000 people lost their jobs every hour in the month of April 2020, the report said.Findings of the report showed that rich got richer during the pandemic."Data shows what Ambani earned during the pandemic would keep the 40 crore informal workers that are at risk of falling into poverty due to Covid-19 above the poverty line for at least 5 months," the report said.The wealth of Indian billionaires increased by 35 per cent during the lockdown and by 90 per cent since 2009 to USD 422.9 billion, ranking India sixth in the world after the US, China, Germany, Russia and France, it said.In fact, the report said the increase in wealth of the top 11 billionaires of India during the pandemic could sustain the rural job scheme MGNREGA for 10 years or the Health Ministry for 10 years.Noting that the informal sector had been the worst hit, the report said out of a total 12.2 crore people who lost their jobs, 75 per cent, which accounts for 9.2 crore jobs, were lost in the informal sector."The mass exodus on foot triggered by the sudden lockdown and the inhuman beating, disinfection and quarantine conditions the informal workers were subjected to turned a health emergency into a humanitarian crisis," it said."Over 300 informal workers died due to the lockdown, with reasons ranging from starvation, suicides, exhaustion, road and rail accidents, police brutality and denial of timely medical care. The National Human Rights Commission recorded over 2,582 cases of human rights violation as early as in the month of April 2020," the report added.It noted that the long disruption of schooling risked doubling the rate of out of school, especially among the poor."Only 4 per cent of rural households had a computer and less than 15 per cent rural households had an internet connection," it said.On health inequalities, the report said only 6 per cent of the poorest 20 per cent has access to non-shared sources of improved sanitation, compared to 93.4 per cent of the top 20 per cent. It added that 59.6 per cent of India's population lives in a room or less.The report said 1.7 crore women lost their job in April 2020 and unemployment for women rose by 15 per cent from a pre-lockdown level.Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar said if not addressed immediately, the crisis could worsen."Extreme inequality is not inevitable, but a policy choice. The fight against inequality must be at the heart of economic rescue and recovery efforts now," Behar said."Newer and creative ways of catering to the needs of the masses is possible if governments are committed to the needs of its people. It is time for the government of India to take specific and concrete actions that will build a better future, more equal and just a future for everyone," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/richest-indian-s-wealth-rose-35-during-pandemic-lakhs-lost-jobs-lives-oxfam-101611556123588.html
25-01-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: Officials||Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a brawl in north Sikkim last week, with soldiers from both armies suffering injuries, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The aggressive confrontation between rival troops took place in Naku La, a pass at a height of more than 5,000 metres, the officials said. The army is expected to issue a statement on the skirmish soon. The clash took place after Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into Indian territory, they said. This is the second such incident in the eastern sector in less than a year. Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary in Naku La last May. Four Indian soldiers and seven Chinese troops suffered injuries during the May 9, 2020 confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers. Also Read: ‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drillThe Naku La area is traditionally not prone to face-offs. Rival soldiers have clashed at least four times since the India-China border row erupted in the Ladakh sector in early May. The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not had any positive outcome. India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh, where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral, at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said. The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged. Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-troops-clashed-in-north-sikkim-last-week-officials-101611556633254.html
25-01-2021||India||Canada joins Quad joint naval exercise in Pacific Ocean||For the first time, Canada is participating in a joint exercise in the Pacific Ocean with the nations that comprise the Quad: the US, India, Japan and Australia.The fortnight-long anti-submarine warfare exercise Sea Dragon 2021 is being organised by the United States as its Andersen Air Force Base in Guam, an American territory. The participants are the Royal Australian Air Force, Royal Canadian Air Force, Indian Navy, and Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force.In response to queries from the Hindustan Times, David Lavallee, public affairs officer with Canadian Armed Forces’ 1 Canadian Air Division and Canadian NORAD Region Headquarters, said, “Canada is also a Pacific nation. The RCAF often works closely with the US Navy’s Seventh Fleet, and our participation in Sea Dragon is an opportunity to demonstrate the strength and durability of our alliances in the Indo-Pacific region.” He also said the RCAF’s participation “enables substantial training opportunities for the Long Range Patrol community working with allies and partners in the Pacific, including Australia, India, Japan and the United States.”New Delhi is looking at this development as a “significant step forward” by Canada. Diplomatic sources said the RCAF’s participation appeared to be a “political nod to the Quad, Quad Plus without saying it is joining the Quad.”The name of the exercise itself and the participants indicate rising concern over China. The RCAF spokesperson said that “developing interoperability with our partners” and working with different aircraft “ensure that the RCAF remains ready to support Canada’s interests in the region.”Lavallee also said, “Given the increasing importance of the Asia-Pacific region to Canadian security and prosperity, Canada is committed to being a reliable partner in the region, through consistent engagement and building strong relationships. Canadian security and defence preparedness benefits tremendously from connectivity with our closest allies.”While proposed bilateral exercises with India have not come to fruition as yet, this is the first time in several years that Canada has joined an exercise with India as a participant, even if in the Quad context.“This training is critical to ensuring the RCAF’s Aurora (aircraft) crews remain ready and able to conduct patrol missions at home and interoperable with other like-minded nations, including those in the Asia-Pacific theatre,” he added. The exercises is being organised by the US Navy’s 7th Fleet and will conclude on Thursday.Interestingly, the Canadian Armed Forces had cancelled joint winter training exercises scheduled with China’s People’s Liberation Army in 2019, though this move had drawn criticism from the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-to-join-quad-joint-naval-exercise-in-pacific-ocean-101611556512917.html
25-01-2021||India||Covid positive I-T officer convicted for corruption dies by suicide: Cops||A coronavirus positive income tax (I-T) department officer convicted in a corruption case died by suicide on Monday morning in a Jaipur hospital, said police.“The deceased, a native of Kota, was 45. He was convicted in a corruption case and was sent to Jaipur central jail on January 22, three days ago by a local court,” said Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), East.Singh added that before his admission in the Jaipur Central jail the officer tested positive for coronavirus.“After the results of Covid report, the deceased was admitted in a ward on the sixth floor of the RUHS hospital, a dedicated covid care center. Initial inquiry reveals that he was alone in his ward and around 4am on Monday morning, the security guards had seen the man on his bed in the ward. Later, when the guards came again, the man was found dead after which the security guard informed the RUHS management, who later informed the Pratap Nagar police,” the DCP East said.As it is a case of death during judicial custody, the police reached the spot along with a sub-divisional magistrate. The family members have been informed.The body has been kept in mortuary for postmortem.“As of now the reason behind the suicide is unknown,” said DCP East.In December, 2016, the deceased who was posted as inspector in I-T department in Jhalawar district was caught red-handed taking bribe by a team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) of ₹one lakh from an assessee for not imposing penalty on his Income Tax Return. The agency also found new currency notes worth ₹24 lakh during searches at his residence.“A case was registered U/s 7 of PC Act, 1988 against Income Tax Officer, Jhalawar on a complaint. It was alleged in the complaint that the Income Tax Officer demanded a bribe of ₹one lakh from the complainant for not imposing penalty due in the scrutiny of his income for the assessment year of 2014-15,” reads an official release of the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-positive-i-t-officer-convicted-for-corruption-dies-by-suicide-cops-101611555671032.html
25-01-2021||India||On National Voters' Day, PM praises Election Commission's 'remarkable contribution'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, which is being observed as National Voters' Day, praised the Election Commission of India (ECI) for strengthening the Indian democracy by ensuring smooth conduct of elections. "National Voters Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth," tweeted PM Modi on Monday.National Voters Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth.The theme for this year’s National Voters' Day, ‘Making Our Voters Empowered, Vigilant, Safe and Informed’, envisages active and participative voters during elections. It also focuses on ECI’s commitment towards conducting elections safely during the COVID-19 pandemic. National Voters Day is observed to encourage, facilitate and maximise enrolment, especially for the new voters.Also read Explained: When is National Voters Day? What’s the theme this year?"Dedicated to the voters of the country, the day is utilised to spread awareness among voters and for promoting informed participation in the electoral process. New voters are felicitated and handed over their Elector Photo Identity Card (EPIC) in the NVD functions," the government said in a release on Sunday.The Election Commission is celebrating the 11th National Voters Day on Tuesday and President Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest at an event being organised in New Delhi by the poll watchdog. Union Minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad will be the guest of honour. Prasad will launch the electronic version of the voter identity card, which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a computer. The e-elector photo identity card is a non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as a digital locker and can be printed in PDF format, officials said according to PTI.The government release said that the physical card takes time to print and reach the voter and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document. "Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters," it said on Sunday.The National Voters’ Day has been observed on January 25 every year since 2011 to mark the foundation day of the Election Commission of India on January 25, 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-national-voters-day-pm-modi-praises-ec-s-remarkable-contribution-101611553334812.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China troops engage in brawl along LAC in Sikkim: Officials||There was a minor scuffle between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area of Sikkim last week, people familiar with the development said on Monday.The brawl on the night of January 20 was resolved by local commanders soon after, they said, adding that the clash took place after Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into the Indian territory.This is the second such incident in the same area in less than a year. Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary in Naku La last May. Four Indian soldiers and seven Chinese troops suffered injuries during the May 9 confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.The January 20 clash happened four days before the ninth round of commander-level talks between the two sides was scheduled to resolve the tension in the eastern Ladakh sector along the LAC on Sunday. The meeting, held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, lasted for over 15 hours. However, the outcome of the meeting is not known yet. India and China have been locked in a lingering border standoff that also has impacted bilateral ties.Earlier this month, Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stated that India was committed to resolving the situation along the contested LAC through talks but no one should test India’s patience. “We are committed to resolving disputes through talks and political efforts. However, no one should make the mistake of testing India’s patience,” he had said.Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria too warned China saying, "If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality).”India has been pushing for a comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks over the tense Ladakh theatre. China, however, wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-troops-engaged-in-new-border-brawl-reports-101611553830806.html
25-01-2021||India||‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drill||Indian armed forces conducted a large-scale joint military training exercise ‘Kavach’ along with “AMPHEX-21” in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal on Monday. Performed under the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the drill saw the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard.The exercise involved participation and deployment of all forces of ANC, elements of the amphibious brigade of the army's Southern Command along with corvettes, submarine and amphibious landing ships of Navy’s Eastern Fleet and Marine Commandos. Jaguar maritime strike and transport aircraft from Indian Air Force and assets of the Coast Guard also participated.How was the drill conducted?The exercise began with maritime strikes by Jaguar aircraft, para and marine commandos carrying out Combat Free Fall at Car Nicobar with an aim to validate air dominance and maritime strike capability within the area of interest in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).Before the amphibious landing operations, troops of the army, navy and air force were mobilised and transported by sea and air in close coordination with all agencies.As part of shaping the battlefield, MARCOS along with their combat loads and Air Droppable Rigid Hull Inflatable Boats (ADR) were dropped over the Andaman Sea, enabling the marine commandos to reach the target with stealth and speed. MI-17 V5 Armed Helicopters undertook precision targeting against designated enemy assets at sea and on land.The training exercise culminated with the beach landing operations by elements of the amphibious brigade of Southern Command from INS Jalashwa, Airavat, Guldar and LCU MK-4 class of ships with 600 troops along with tanks, troop carrier vehicles and other heavy weapons. The logistic team demonstrated and validated the joint logistic system and its capabilities to respond to dynamic changes in operational situations and combat missions.Strategic significanceThe areas in which the exercise was conducted holds strategic significance for India. The drill comes at a time when India and China are engaged in a border standoff in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the Indian Navy has increased surveillance in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep tabs on China’s moves to expand its footprint in the strategic waters.The ministry of defence said that the exercise also validated joint capabilities of intelligence gathering from space, air, land and sea-based assets, its synthesis, analysis and near real-time sharing to achieve battlefield transparency for quick decision making.The joint force executed multi-domain, high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal. The tri-services exercise fine-tuned joint warfighting capabilities and Standard Operating Procedures towards enhancing operational synergy, the ministry statement added.Commander-in-chief Andaman and Nicobar Command visited the exercise area in the Southern Group of Islands to oversee the exercise and commended all ranks for the high level of operational preparedness, the defence ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-maritime-strikes-to-armed-helicopters-how-india-conducted-kavach-drill-101611552676193.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear WhatsApp new privacy policy case today||The Delhi high court on Monday will hear a plea by a lawyer, challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp on the ground that it violates the right of privacy of individuals.Alleging that WhatsApp has put a “Damocles’ sword on its users” to accept its new privacy policy, the plea said that the updated policy virtually scrutinises the personal profile of a user by 360 degree.The plea, filed by advocate Chaitanya Rohilla, has said that the new norms, which are mandatory for the users to accept by February 8, also jeopardises the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country.Also read | Delhi HC objects to WhatsApp asking judge not to hear PILIt alleged that WhatsApp is integrating people into Facebook so that Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram (another subsidiary of Facebook) all become part of one package.“WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy while discharging a public function in India, besides jeopardising the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country. There remains a possibility that that foreign country might be a hostile country to India.“Brazenly, WhatsApp has also made it mandatory for its users to accept this policy by February 8 or else the services and accounts of the respective users would be terminated. This type of arbitrary behaviour and brow beating cannot be accepted in a democracy and is completely ultra vires and against the fundamental rights as enshrined in the Constitution of India,” the plea said.During a hearing last week, Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva had remarked that WhatsApp is a private application and a person can opt out of it and use some other app if there were concerns about privacy and sharing of information. WhatsApp’s lawyer Mukul Rohatgi, while refuting the allegations of sharing of data and breach of privacy, had also informed the high court that the new privacy policy has itself been deferred till April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-to-hear-whatsapp-new-privacy-policy-case-today-101611552792437.html
25-01-2021||India||‘Largely under Haryana’: Farmers’ leader on routes given for R-Day tractor rally||A leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Monday expressed dissatisfaction over the routes approved by the Delhi Police for Tuesday’s proposed tractor rally by the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws. KMSC’s Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra told news agency ANI that the routes approved by the police come largely under Haryana, as against farmers’ leaders' demand for Delhi’s Outer Ring Road. Sabhra said a final call on the route would be taken after a meeting with the police at 10am.“We feel that the kind of permission granted to us for tractor rally is not right. We wanted to go to the Old Ring Road but we were given conditional permission and assigned the portion that comes largely under Haryana,” ANI quoted Sabhra as saying. “All we’re saying is that we don’t want to go there, we just want to go to the Ring Road. We’ll have a meeting with the police at 10am over this. It will then be decided where we will finally go. After the meeting, we’ll decide the time and route of the rally,” he said.All we're saying is that we don't want to go there, we just want to go to Ring Road. We'll have a meeting with Police at 10 am today over this. It will then be decided where will we finally go. After the meeting, we'll decide the time & route of the rally: Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra https://t.co/sGWOa1afMpAfter multiple rounds of talks last week, the Delhi Police on Sunday finally gave “conditional” approval for the rally. However, addressing a press conference, special commissioner of police (intelligence) Dependra Pathak said more than 300 Twitter handles had been set up in Pakistan to create “disturbance” at the rally.According to the police, the tractor parade would begin only after the conclusion of the official Republic Day celebrations. Barricades placed at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders would be removed, allowing the protesters to enter the national capital. The rally would cover a distance of 170km, of this, 100km would be covered inside the city. The Delhi Police has asked all its personnel, including those on Republic Day duty, to be on alert for any potential law and order situation.The farmers’ leaders, though, have repeatedly assured that the march would be “peaceful.” The agitation against the three farm laws entered day 61 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/largely-under-haryana-farmers-leader-on-routes-given-for-r-day-tractor-rally-101611550337066.html
25-01-2021||India||Srinagar night temperature drops to -5.2°C as cold wave returns||Cold wave returned to Kashmir with the night temperature dropping to -5.2 degree Celsius in Srinagar on Sunday night. Tourists resorts of Gulmarg and Pahalgam were the coldest places in Kashmir, as the night temperature was recorded at 11.5°C and 11.9°C respectively. In a release, India Meteorological Department (IMD) also said that Jammu recorded 6°C.After a fresh spell of snowfall, the weather across Kashmir will remain dry till the end of this month which will also see the culmination of 40 day Chilai Kalan -- the harshest part of winters in Kashmir. This winter, the Valley witnessed back-to-back spells of snow which led to the accumulation of more than five feet of snow in southern parts as well as upper reaches of Kashmir. For the past two weeks, Kashmir has been witnessing cold wave with night temperature hovering between -5 and -10°C. Meanwhile, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway has been opened for traffic, though today only the stranded vehicles will be allowed to move on it. Air traffic has also been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-night-temperature-drops-to-5-2-c-as-cold-wave-returns-101611550752619.html
25-01-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath announces slew of awards to mark UP Diwas||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday kick-started a three-day extravaganza to mark ‘UP Diwas’ by announcing ‘UP Gaurav Samman’ and a host of other schemes and awards. The CM said the fourth edition of the ‘UP Diwas’ will be celebrated as a mark of respect for the people of the state for their resilience, sense of teamwork and ability to perform in adversity.Yogi also gave away several awards on the occasion - Laxmibai awards (to sportswomen) and Laxman awards (sportsmen), Gokul awards to milk producers, Vishwakarma awards to workers and artisans, scholarships to students, and also launched UP Geet (a song) sung by Kailash Kher. He launched ‘Udyam Sarathi’ mobile app for employment and announced ‘Abhyudaya’ coaching centres to come up in the state soon for the benefit of youths to prepare for competitive exams.Addressing the gathering at Avadh Shilpgram, Yogi said the strong resolve shown by the state during the Covid pandemic has been exemplary and a matter of pride.“It came as no surprise that Uttar Pradesh received accolades from foreign countries and WHO for the commendable work done in Covid management. It was all due to teamwork and strong resolve of everyone involved in the fight against Covid,’’ he said.Spelling out ‘Mission Rozgar’ for employment generation, Yogi said: “Four lakh youths have got government jobs during the last three-and-a-half years. Another 15 lakh were facilitated to get private jobs while 1.5 crore youths were added to employment through investment and about 15 crore youth got self-employment by way of various schemes of the Centre and the state.”“This year the social welfare department has identified over 1.43 lakh youths who have excelled in various fields and has given them scholarships. From this year, we will be identifying three to five people who have given a new identity to the state in the country as well as globally, and we will be honoring them with the ‘UP Gaurav Samman,’ the CM said, adding that the ‘Vishwakarma Samman’ was instituted in the 2nd edition of UP Diwas.Delving into history, Yogi said it was never celebrated despite the fact that on January 24, 1950, a notification was issued in this regard. He termed it ‘unfortunate’ that no previous government ever thought of glorifying the past of the state by celebrating the day.On Covid vaccine, Yogi said: “Besides people of the country, we are also giving it to many countries like Brazil, Bhutan, Nepal, Mauritius, Bangladesh and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-announces-slew-of-awards-to-mark-up-diwas-101611550052986.html
25-01-2021||India||India adds 13,203 Covid-19 cases, 131 deaths; tally over 10.66 million||With 13,203 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in more than eight months, and 131 related deaths in the last 24 hours, India's caseload has gone past 10.66 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. The numbers of infections and deaths on Monday morning were lower than Sunday's 14,849 cases and 155 fatalities respectively, data showed. The active cases of the coronavirus disease also remained below 185,500 for the second day in a row at 184,182.There were 13,298 patients who were cured of the viral disease between Sunday and Monday morning, which have pushed India's recoveries to 10,330,084 and the recovery rate to 96.83%. The country's death toll is now at 153,470, according to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am.Also read | Grim milestone: Covid-19 count set to touch 100 millionThe dashboard also showed that over 1.6 million healthcare workers have been inoculated so far in the countrywide vaccination drive, which started on January 16. The health ministry had said on Sunday that India took only six days to roll out 1 million vaccine doses.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said 19,23,37,117 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to January 24. Of these, 570,246 samples were tested on Saturday, it added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said scientists have done their duty by developing the Covid-19 vaccine and that "now we have to fulfil ours" by defeating the network spreading lies and rumours about the vaccination. "Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the coronavirus vaccine and now we have to fulfil ours. We have to defeat every network spreading lies and rumours with the right information," Modi said.The Prime Minister said the youth should now come forward to assist in the Covid-19 vaccination programme by providing the right information to the people while addressing tribal guests, National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets, National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers and tableaux artists who would be a part of the upcoming Republic Day parade on Tuesday. "You need to take it to the next level now. Your reach is in all parts of society. I request you to come forward to help the country with the COVID-19 vaccination programme. You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public," Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-13-203-covid-19-cases-131-deaths-tally-over-10-66-million-101611549164867.html
25-01-2021||India||India conducts 'Kavach' drill in Andaman Sea to fine-tune joint war-fighting skills||The Indian military on Monday carried out a large-scale conjoint training exercise, codenamed Kavach or shield, in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal to fine-tune joint war-fighting capabilities. The forces also conducted AMPHEX-21 drill off the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, news agency ANI reported.The training exercise was conducted under the Andaman and Nicobar Command with the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard.All forces of the Andaman and Nicobar Command, elements of an amphibious brigade of the army’s Southern Command, corvettes, submarine and amphibious landing ships of Navy the and Marine Commandos, Jaguar Maritime Strike and transport aircraft from IAF were part of the training exercise, the defence ministry was quoted as saying by ANI.The aim of the tri-service drill is to sharpen operational synergy between the three services, with the high-tempo exercise involving fighter jets, transport aircraft, helicopters, warships, infantry combat vehicles and elements of special forces, the defence ministry said last week.The exercise involves synergised application of maritime surveillance assets, coordinated air and maritime strikes, air defence, submarine and landing operations. According to the ministry, the scope of the drill will cover joint intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) tasks that will involve the military’s technical, electronic and human intelligence elements.The exercise comes at a time when India and China are locked in a border standoff in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the Indian Navy has stepped up surveillance in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep tabs on China’s moves to expand its footprint in the strategic waters.The joint force would execute multi-domain, high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal and carry out amphibious landing operations, air landed operation, helicopters-borne insertion of Special Forces from sea culminating in tactical follow-on operations on land, the ministry had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-kavach-drill-in-andaman-sea-to-fine-tune-joint-war-fighting-skill-101611549068147.html
25-01-2021||India||J-K LG pays tribute to army jawan killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday paid tribute to army jawan who succumbed to his injuries on Sunday in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan on January 18 in Sunderbani sector."Tributes to Naik Nishant Sharma, one of the four soldiers injured along LoC in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pak in Sunderbani sector on Jan 18, who attained martyrdom. Our country is eternally indebted to the supreme sacrifices of our bravehearts: LG Manoj Sinha," Department of Information and Public Relations, Government of Jammu and Kashmir tweeted.As per the official statement, the Pakistan Army had resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in the Sunderbani sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on January 18. Indian troops strongly responded to the retaliation.In the incident, Nk Nishant Sharma of 10 JAK RIF (Jammu and Kashmir Rifles) was critically injured and was under treatment at Command Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-lg-pays-tribute-to-army-jawan-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-101611549136792.html
25-01-2021||India||Nepal Election Commission refuses to give legitimacy to either faction of ruling NCP||The Nepal Election Commission on Sunday refused to recognise either of the factions of the Nepal Communist Party--one led by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and the other by Pushpa Kamal Dahal and Madhav Kumar Nepal.The poll panel stated that both the factions have failed to follow the Political Parties Act-2017 and party statute."Decisions made by both the parties didn't come in line with the party's statute. As the decisions don't fall in line, we can't update the details of the Nepal Communist Party. We have notified both chairman KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal about it, making them clear that the Commission will maintain existing details of the party," Spokesperson for Election Commission Raj Kumar Shrestha confirmed.The Nepal Communist Party which has broken into two factions, one led by caretaker Prime Minister Oli and the other faction led by Dahal and Nepal. Both the factions filed an application in the Election Commission claiming authenticity along with the election emblem--the "Sun".The party broke into two factions on December 22, two days after Oli dissolved the lower house on 20th December, NCP-formed after a merger between then CPN-UML and CPN (Maoist Center) in May 2018, Oli and Dahal became the chairs of the party, as per the statute.The Kathmandu Post reported that the commission concluded that decisions taken by both sides failed to follow the provisions of the party statute that was submitted to the commission.The Election Commission decision means that even though the party has practically split, it continues to remain intact--technically and legally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-election-commission-refuses-to-give-legitimacy-to-either-faction-of-ruling-ncp-101611547233951.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Delhi Metro services schedule, parking details||Delhi Metro services will be partially curtailed on Tuesday and four stations in the vicinity of Rajpath will be shut in the morning due to security arrangements for Republic Day, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had said.However, Metro train services will be available for commuters at all stations during the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday. The stations which will remain closed are Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg. Boarding or de-boarding at Central Secretariat from 5am till 12pm, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg (Race Course) from 8.45am to 12pm, Patel Chowk and ITO will not be allowed."Entry/exit to the following stations will remain closed for a short period on 26th January 2021. Interchange shall be available at Central Secretariat. Parking facilities will remain closed from 6am on 25th January till 2 pm on 26th January at all stations," DMRC had tweeted.Also read | Farmers' tractor parade on R-Day: Routes, arrangements, traffic advisoryThe entry and exit at Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro stations will remain closed from 8:45am to 12pm on January 26. All Metro parking lots will also remain closed from 6am on January 25 till 2pm on January 26. The Central Secretariat Metro station will only be used for the interchange of passengers between Line 2 (Yellow Line) and Line 6 (Violet Line) during that period, the DMRC said.Also read | Rafale to make R-Day debut: All you need to knowIndia will celebrate the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday with a grand display of military might, vibrant cultural diversity and socio-economic progress on Rajpath in the national capital. The Republic Day parade will start at 9.50am from Vijay Chowk and move towards National Stadium and the tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards the Red Fort ground. The wreath-laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9am.The parade will start from Vijay Chowk and pass through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, and Radial Road, and then turn right on "C" Hexagon, turn left again and enter the National Stadium from gate number 1. The tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and go towards Red Fort via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-delhi-metro-services-schedule-parking-details-101611546959169.html
25-01-2021||India||Cold wave over several parts of NW India likely from today||Cold wave to severe cold wave is likely to impact parts of north Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh during January 25 to 27 and west Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh between January 26 and 27, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees Celsius (° C) on Monday. The Western Disturbance which caused widespread snowfall in the Western Himalayas moved northeastwards from Jammu and Kashmir. Cold, dry northwesterly winds are likely to pick up from today over northwest India and persist during the subsequent 3-4 days over plains of north and adjoining parts of central and western India.Under its influence, the current spell of dense to very dense fog over some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan is likely to persist till January 26 and decrease in spatial distribution and intensity thereafter. Today also, there was moderate fog with less than 500 metres visibility over many parts of northwest India. On Sunday, there was dense to very dense fog across the Himalayan foothills from north to the north-eastern states. In fact, a layer of uplifted fog persisted the entire day over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh.Cold day to severe cold day conditions are very likely in some pockets over Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over north Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh between January 25 and 27.“We are expecting a substantial drop in minimum temperatures by 3-4 ° C over the plains as winds are northwesterly blowing from the direction of the Western Himalayas where there was widespread snowfall,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is classified as such on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 ° C and a maximum temperature of 4.5° C or 6.4° C below normal.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10° C or below and/or is 4.5 notches less than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4° C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-over-several-parts-of-nw-india-likely-from-today-101611546852266.html
25-01-2021||India||2 Chinese nationals arrested in Uttar Pradesh for alleged money laundering||Two Chinese nationals, including a woman, were arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in Gautam Buddh Nagar for their alleged involvement in illegal money transactions after opening online accounts in banks using fraudulently activated SIM cards, said UP ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar, on Sunday.The involvement of the two Chinese nationals surfaced after the arrest of 14 people from different parts of the state involved in providing them SIM cards on January 17, he said.The ADG did not rule out the possibility of money laundering/terror funding behind the racket and stated that the ATS was probing the motive behind illegal money transactions.He said the two Chinese nationals, identified as Xu Xunfu alias ‘Julahi’ and Pochnli Tengli alias ‘Alice’, were arrested from their hideout in Gautam Buddh Nagar. They were staying in India illegally for four-five months. Julahi’s visa expired in August, 2020 and Alice’s visa duration ended in September, 2020.The ADG said the two accused were involved in arranging fraudulently activated SIM cards for a Chinese couple who owns a hotel in Gurgaon, Haryana. The two arrested persons used to deliver these SIM cards to the Chinese manager of the Gurgaon hotel after arranging the same from different people.The duo had revealed that they delivered over 1,800 fraudulently activated SIM cards to the hotel manager. Efforts were on to trace the Chinese couple and their hotel manager involved in the racket, he said.The ADG said the Chinese couple, who was at large, was in regular touch with another person in China through an instant messaging application for illegal money transactions.He said they all were members of an international racket involved in illegal money transactions.The racketeers misused relaxations offered in banking services for the common man during the pandemic. In this period, people were allowed to open their online bank accounts through their mobile numbers, without having to visit the banks.A senior ATS official explained that at least two SIM cards could be issued in a day on one person’s identity proof. Some SIM card retailers and distributors used to get two SIM cards activated when any person approached them for a SIM card without letting the person know about the second card.He said these pre-activated SIM cards, which cost merely ₹20, were sold to other dealers at ₹260 and later the same SIM cards were used to open online bank accounts for illegal money transactions.The online bank accounts also have the facility of mentioning one beneficiary other than the account holder. The beneficiary could withdraw money from the ATM machines by getting one-time passwords sent to their registered mobile numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-chinese-nationals-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-for-alleged-money-laundering-101611546312773.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers' tractor parade on R-Day: Routes, arrangements, traffic advisory||Farmers across the country are gearing for the tractor rally on Republic Day on Tuesday after Delhi Police gave their nod. Thousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads, including the busy Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Meerut highways.Also Read | Farmers' Republic Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict stir against agri lawsOn Sunday, farmer leaders appealed to those participating in the Republic Day tractor march to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. The agitation entered 61st day on Monday as the stand-off between farmers and the government continues. The contentious farm laws are farmers are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Here is all you need to know about the planned tractor rally:When will it begin?The tractor rally will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and it will travel at Delhi's busiest Outer Ring Road. Farmers' leaders have assured the government that the tractor rally will remain peaceful and will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way.Rally routesThe rally will be held from Delhi's three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. Those starting from the Singhu border will traverse Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza, according to farmers' leaders. The entire route will be 63 kilometre long. The 62-km long second route, starting from the Tikri border, will pass through Nagloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border and Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza.Tractors starting from Ghazipur will drive through Apsara border, Hapur road and Lal Kuan. Covering 68 kilometers, it is the longest route for the march.Traffic advisoryHaryana authorities have issued a travel advisory ahead of the tractor rally. The authorities warned against unnecessary travel towards Delhi over the next couple of days. It also said there would be disruptions in vehicular movement on the national highway from Karnal and Rohtak towards Delhi during January 25-27. Traffic on KMP-KGP Expressway will also be impacted and interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli will not be accessible to traffic movement on these dates," Haryana police said in the advisory.Security arrangementsFarmers' leaders have said a war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms. A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation. Meanwhile, farmers have also deployed thousands of volunteers of their own to ensure no untoward incident takes place.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-tractor-parade-on-r-day-routes-arrangements-traffic-advisory-101611545333382.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India-China hold 9th round of talks on Ladakh||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In 15-hour meet, India, China discuss Ladakh border standoff for 9th timeThe corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, began at 11am on Sunday and concluded around 2:30am on Monday. Read moreFarmers across India prepare for Republic Day stirThousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads. Read more20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginningMore than 20 years after the Kargil War between India and Pakistan, much has changed in the town that’s now a part of the newly created Union territory of Ladakh. Read moreExclusive Interview: Saha opens on battle with Pant for keeper's slot & India's win down underWhen the India wicket-keeper finally manage to spare some time for a chat, it didn’t take him much time to don the imaginary keeping gloves and gather the bouncer-like questions with utmost ease during. Read moreKaran Johar pens note on Varun Dhawan's wedding: 'My boy is all grown up and ready for this beautiful phase in his life'Filmmaker Karan Johar, who launched Varun Dhawan in Bollywood, was one of the few film celebrities to have made it to the actor's heavily guarded wedding in Alibaug on Sunday. Read moreBernie Sanders' meme edited onto iconic Bollywood scenes may be the best thing you’ll see todayIf you've been on the Internet recently, then you must have seen the memes inspired by the outfit US Senator Bernie Sanders wore to Joe Biden-Kamala Harris’ inauguration ceremony. Read more'Knickerwallahs from Nagpur': Rahul Gandhi mocks RSS in Tamil NaduCongress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruppur. Gandhi is leading the Congress party’s campaign ahead of state elections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-china-hold-9th-round-of-talks-on-ladakh-101611543161544.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold 15-hour meeting to discuss Ladakh border standoff||The ninth round of talks between India and China to resolve the Ladakh standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Sunday lasted for over 15 hours, officials aware of the development said on Monday. The outcome of the meeting, however, is not known yet. The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, began at 11am on Sunday and concluded around 2:30am on Monday.Eastern Ladakh continues to remain tense as two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that also has impacted bilateral ties. The soldiers of both the Indian Army and PLA are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball at friction points on the contested border.“The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” an official familiar with the development said before the meeting ended.While India has been consistently pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.Also Read: 20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginning“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” another official said.Earlier this month, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged. Meanwhile, the PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders met on November 6 last year for the eighth round of military talks, which remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-15-hour-meet-india-china-discuss-ladakh-border-standoff-for-9th-time-101611543851175.html
25-01-2021||India||Rafale to make R-Day debut: All you need to know||Among the many ‘firsts’ of the decade’s first Republic Day parade on Tuesday will be the participation of the newly-acquired Rafale fighter jets. A single Rafale aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will put on a show on January 26, in what is a highly-anticipated display.Here’s a look at some key points as the Rafale gets ready to make its R-Day debut:1. During Tuesday’s flypast, the Rafale will fly in a “Vertical Charlie” formation. The aircraft flies at a low altitude, pulls up vertically and conducts a roll before stabilising at a higher altitude in the “Vertical Charlie” formation.2. Besides Rafale, 41 other aircraft will be a part of different formations. These include 21 helicopters, 15 fighter jets, five transport aircraft and a vintage Dakota aircraft. The fighter jets include the Rafale, Sukhoi-30s and MiG-29s.3. Rafale will fly with two Jaguars and two MiG-29s in one of the formations, before performing another manoeuvre to wrap up the flypast.4. Rafale is a French-made twin-engine fighter aircraft. It is manufactured by French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation and was introduced in May 2001. Besides the IAF, the jet is used by air forces of Egypt, Qatar, Greece, among others.5. For India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then French president Francois Hollande announced the deal for 36 Rafale fighters, worth ₹59,000 crore, in April 2015, during Modi’s state visit to France. In September 2016, the two countries signed an inter-government agreement (IGA) for the acquisition of the jets.6. The deal, however, became subject of a major controversy, as opposition parties, led by Congress, accused the government of “corruption.” However, in December 2018, the Supreme Court upheld the deal and, in November 2019, dismissed petitions seeking review of its Rafale case judgement.7. In October 2019, defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in France to receive India’s first Rafale. During his visit, Singh also took a sortie in the Rafale, which translates to “gust of wind” in French.8. Eventually, IAF pilots flew to India the country’s first five Rafale jets in July 2020, from France; the jets were due to arrive in May but the delivery was delayed due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The fighters arrived at the Ambala air base and were inducted into the IAF’s “Golden Arrows” squadron in September.9. India has received eight of the 36 Rafale fighters thus far. Besides the five that were inducted last September, three aircraft were flown to India in November 2020. Three more are scheduled to arrive by the end of this month, taking the total to 11.10. The acquisition of Rafale marks India’s first acquisition of an imported fighter in more than two decades. In June 1997, the Russian Sukhoi 30 fighters began serving the IAF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-to-make-r-day-debut-all-you-need-to-know-101611543389216.html
25-01-2021||India||Around 100 students from schools, colleges to watch Republic Day parade from PM's box||At least 100 meritorious students from schools and colleges will get a chance to see the Republic Day parade from the Prime Minister's box on Tuesday, according to the Ministry of Education.The students will also get to interact with Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' after the parade."Happy to share that meritorious students across the country will be given a chance to witness the #RepublicDay2021 parade from the Prime Minister's Box. They will also have a chance to meet & interact with the Minister of Education, Govt. of India Shri @DrRPNishank," the Ministry of Education tweeted.Also Read | Republic Day: Check traffic advisory for January 26, routes to avoidAccording to a ministry official, 100 students have been shortlisted for the purpose -- 50 from schools and 50 from higher education institutions.Last year, a total of 105 toppers from CBSE and universities across the country got a chance to watch the 71st Republic Day Parade from the PM's box.Due to Covid-19 safety norms, gravity-defying stunts by motorcycle-borne men, a major attraction for the crowd during Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath, will be missing this year, while the spectator size too has been reduced to 25,000, officials had said on Friday.Besides, the parade of gallantry awardees and children who have earned bravery awards will also be not be there at the 72nd Republic Day event, on account of social distancing, they said.Also, there will be no chief guest at the event this year.This year, the number of participants in the Republic Day cultural programmes has been cut down from over 600 to just 401 this year, to avoid overcrowding and follow social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-100-students-from-schools-colleges-to-watch-republic-day-parade-from-pm-s-box-101611541559968.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers' Republic Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict stir against agri laws||The Republic Day tractor parade by agitating farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws, and hailing their courage, according to organisers.A farmer leader told PTI that directions were issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here"Around one lakh tractor-trolleys from across the country will participate in the parade. Around 30 per cent of these will have tableaux on different themes, including the history of the farmers' movement in India, the role of women farmers and farming practices followed in different states," he said.A few children from Maharashtra's Vidarbha region have also planned a tableau on farmer suicides."Children of farmers who committed suicide are expected to participate in the parade. Their tableau will depict the hardships faced by farmers of the region that faces water scarcity," a member of Swaraj India said.Tableaux from states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand will show how fruits and vegetables are cultivated in the hilly regions.Participants from Punjab and Haryana will showcase traditional and modern farming technology and statues of women milking cows and farmers driving bullock carts.Each tractor will carry a tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs.A member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said the parade is likely to start from the five border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Palwal and Shahjahanpur -- where farmers have been camping since November 28 last year.The tractor parade will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and cover a distance of more than 100 kilometers before culminating around 6 pm, he said.A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said.Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route to attend to any medical emergency.Another farmer leader said around 2,500 volunteers have been deployed to ensure that the parade remains peaceful and no untoward incident takes place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards.Farmer leaders said only five people will be allowed on a tractor and strict vigil is being maintained to thwart any criminal activity.A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation.A team of mechanics has also been formed to carry out any repair work in case the need arises.Farmer leaders asked all participants to carry jackets and blankets to shield themselves against the cold."Everyone has to return to the starting point after the parade," one of the leaders said.The Delhi Police has agreed to remove the barricades at Singhu and Tikri to let farmers enter the national capital.Farmer leaders said the tractor parade will remain peaceful will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way.Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-republic-day-tractor-parade-tableaux-to-depict-stir-against-agri-laws-101611541458674.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day: Check traffic advisory for January 26, routes to avoid||The Delhi Traffic Police have issued an advisory on traffic arrangements and restrictions put in place for the smooth conduct of Republic Day on Tuesday. They have asked people to plan their journeys in advance and avoid the parade and tableaux routes between 4am and 12.30pm on Tuesday. The parade will start at 9.50am from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards the National Stadium and tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and move towards the Red Fort Ground. The wreath laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9am.Movement of traffic on certain roads leading to the route of the parade and tableaux will be restricted.Also read | President Kovind to address nation on Republic Day eve: When, where to watchNo traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6pm on Monday till the parade is over, it said, adding that Rajpath is already out of bounds. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersections from 11pm on Monday at Rafi Marg, Janpath, Man Singh Road till the parade is over, the advisory said.Parade and tableaux routesThe parade will start from Vijay Chowk and pass through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg and Radial Road, and then turn right on "C" Hexagon, turn left again and enter the National Stadium from gate number 1, the advisory said.The tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and go towards Red Fort via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg, it said.Closed routesC-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 5am on Tuesday till the tableaux cross Tilak Marg. Traffic on Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Subhash Marg will not be allowed on both the carriageways from 4am on Tuesday. The cross traffic will only be allowed depending on the movement of tableaux, the advisory stated.Alternate routesThe traffic advisory suggested alternate routes which motorists can follow as north-south corridor that includes Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, IP Flyover and Rajghat.Also read | PM Modi lauds NCC cadets, artistes ahead of Republic Day paradeCommuters can take the route from Madarsa, Lodhi Road T-point via Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS Chowk, Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun Vande Matram Marg, Shankar Road and Sheikh Mujbur Rahman road for going to Mandir Marg. There is also the east and the west corridors for motorists who have been suggested to take Ring Road via Bhairon Road at Mathura Road and Lodhi Road.Commuters who want to go towards AIIMS Chowk can take the Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun via Mandir Marg and to go towards Ring Road-ISBT, motorists can take Chadgi Ram Akhara and Mall road via Azadpur. Commuters going to the New Delhi Railway Station from south Delhi can go through Dhaula Kuan, Vande Matram Marg, Panchkuian Road, Connaught Place outer circle, Chelmsford Road for Paharganj side or Minto Road and Bhavbhuti Marg for Ajmeri Gate side.Also read | Republic Day 2021: History, significance of the day India became a republicFrom east Delhi, they can take Boulevard Road via ISBT bridge, Rani Jhansi flyover, Jhandewalan roundabout, DB Gupta Road, Sheela Cinema Road, Paharganj Bridge and reach New Delhi Railway Station, it said. To travel to Old Delhi Railway Station from south Delhi, people can take Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, Rajghat, Chowk Yamuna Bazar, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chhatta Rail and Kauria Bridge, it said.Bus and Metro servicesThe movement of bus services will be curtailed at Shivaji Stadium, ISBT Sarai Kale Khan, Kamla Market roundabout, Delhi Secretariat (IGI Stadium), Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road), Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazar), Mori Gate and ISBT Kashmiri Gate, the advisory said.Metro train services will remain available for commuters at all Metro stations during the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday. However, boarding or de-boarding at Central Secretariat from 5am till 12 pm, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg (Race Course) from 8.45am to 12 pm, Patel Chowk and ITO will not be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-check-traffic-advisory-for-january-26-routes-to-avoid-101611541022150.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind to address nation on Republic Day eve: When, where to watch||President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day on Monday. His speech will be telecast at 7pm on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version.The address will then be broadcast in regional languages by regional channels of Doordarshan. AIR will broadcast regional language versions from 9:30pm onwards on its respective regional networks, the President's Secretariat said in a statement.In his previous address on the eve of Republic Day, Kovind had invoked constitutional ideals and the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. "Our Constitution gave us rights as citizens of a free democratic nation, but also placed on us the responsibility to always adhere to the central tenets of our democracy – justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. It becomes easier for us to follow these constitutional ideals, if we keep in mind the life and values of the Father of our Nation,” he had said.Backing the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the President had said every policy initiative of the government is guided by the ‘nation-first’ principle. “The roll-out of the GST has realised our vision of ‘One country, One tax, One market’. It is being complemented by the e-NAM scheme, which is strengthening the process of creating ‘one market for one nation’ and will benefit farmers,” he said in his speech before the nation.As India gears up celebrate the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, this year's parade will be different amid the coronavirus pandemic. The parade, however, will also be a witness to many firsts, including the flypast with Rafale jets and soldiers wearing masks to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed as they display the country’s military might. The number of officials participating in the parade has been reduced to from 144 to 96 this year due to the pandemic.Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth will also be a part of the Republic Day parade, becoming the first woman fighter pilot to take part in the country’s biggest ceremony. This year's Republic Day parade will be organised without a chief guest, a first in more than five decades.Soon after the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, farmers, who have been protesting against three agricultural laws enacted in September last year, will hold a tractor rally. The Delhi Police on Sunday gave in-principle approval to farmers to carry out their tractor rallies in the national capital from three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. While the police pegged the number of tractors at around 30,000, farm leaders said there would be about 250,000 tractors entering the national capital from the three border points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-address-nation-on-republic-day-eve-when-where-to-watch-101611540459002.html
25-01-2021||India||20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginning||Once the sun sets in the bitter winter cold of January, you can only see a few stray dogs on the streets of Kargil, which has a population of 150,000 people.But in the ice skating rinks, the lights don’t dim. Children are still practising even as adults make their way to the safety and the comfort of their warm homes. It is in Kargil that the Indian national ice hockey team practices as well.More than 20 years after the Kargil War between India and Pakistan, much has changed in the town that’s now a part of the newly created Union territory of Ladakh and is trying to shed an image rooted in tales of the conflict, and fear of landmines, that have kept tourists away.“That is not all that Kargil is about, we have so much more to offer,” said an administrative official on condition of anonymity. “But the stereotype is hard to overcome. They all associate it with the war. That is why Kargil has been ignored.” The conflict that raged between May and July of 1999 was sparked by the infiltration of Pakistani troops into positions on the Indian side of the Line of Control. Pakistan initially blamed the conflict on Kashmiri militants. After the Indian army, supported by the Indian Air Force, recaptured a majority of the positions, Pakistani forces withdrew in the face of international pressure.There is little to remind a visitor of the conflict in the Kargil of today. During the day, locals bustle about the well- stocked markets that sell wares from the traditional phiren to cutting-edge sporting equipment made by international chains such as Quechua, a trademarked brand for hiking and camping apparel and equipment marketed by the French company Decathlon. “There is great scope for tourism here,” said the official cited above. “But what is needed is an increased focus on education, especially English-medium schools.” Road infrastructure has improved . “It is now easier to get here, there are two-lane roads. More tourism often means more development, look at Leh,” said Azghar Ali, 26, a former national ice hockey player.A former army truck drive who identified himself as Dorje also accepts that the roads have improved, but not the mindset of the tourists. “There are many takers for the treks around there. But most people are still scared to visit Kargil,” he said.Kargil barely receives 4,000 tourists a year, a fifth of the visitors to Leh. “The mountain you see at the edge of Kargil, that’s where the Pakistanis were. We pushed them four mountains back. Why can’t we push back such memories as well, ” said Mohammed Ali, 20, who works with the Border Roads Organisation.The locals are hopeful that things will change with the change of status of Ladakh, previously a part of Jammu and Kashmir, an erstwhile state that was divided into two Union territories in 2019 -- J&K and Ladakh.“It was only after it became a UT that work began on the Zojila tunnel, which will become the lifeline of connectivity in Ladakh once completed,” said Amjad Hussain, 25, a professional skier in Pashkum, 10 kilometres from Kargil.The government is considering building an airport in Wakha and a possible realignment of the airport in Kurbathang, which is currently controlled by the Indian Air Force, the official mentioned in the first instance said. Union minister for tourism Prahlad Patel on Sunday announced that India’s premier skiing institute, Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering (IISM) in Gulmarg, J&K, will soon be opening a branch in Pashkum, Kargil, to promote adventure tourism.Kansas Angmo, the Ladakh tourism director, said that with the UT status, a lot more can be achieved. “The share of a UT in the budget is much greater,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-years-after-war-kargil-waits-for-a-new-beginning-101611533984685.html
25-01-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi provides financial aid to kin of party worker who died in accident||In a humanitarian gesture, AICC in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sent financial help to the family of a worker who had died in a road accident while he was travelling to attend a party programme.A top source in UP Congress told ANI, "One of our dedicated workers Tribhuvan Singh in Ghazipur district died in a road accident while he was going to attend a nyay panchayat meeting in his area with his block president where they met with an accident."Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to the family members and came to know about the financial condition of his family. She then assigned AICC secretary in-charge Bajirao Khade to reach out to the family and provided financial help of ₹2 lakh from the party. On Sunday Bajirao visited the family of Tribhuvan Singh and handed over the help to them, the source said.Also Read | Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre for blocking farmers from entering Delhi"On behalf of Priyanka Gandhiji in presence of Congress leaders, the cheque of ₹2 lakh from UP Congress is given to respected Tribhuvan Singhji's family who died in a road accident while travelling to attend a party program," Bajirao Khade tweeted.Another leader in the UP Congress said the life of a person can't be taken back but the gesture shown by the leader sends the message to the party cadre that leadership relates with them in bad times. By taking this step Priyanka Gandhi has shown that every worker of the party, from any level, is important.For the last 45 days, UP Congress is running Sangathan Srijan Abhiyan phase II. It is intended to form nyay panchayat committees and elect nyay panchayat presidents.Out of 8,150 nyay panchayats we have completed 5,200 nyay panchayat meetings and subsequent formations. For the last one-month, district observers have been stationed in their respective district and to stay there and do the groundwork. The whole party is in active gear.At many places, Congress is forming nyay panchayat bodies after 25 years. It's a huge task which she has undertaken. Following the feedback and with this formation gram sabha, committees will begin to work. After that she will tour the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-provides-financial-aid-to-kin-of-party-worker-who-died-in-accident-101611533609747.html
25-01-2021||India||Shopian fake encounter: Army Captain tried to destroy evidence, say cops||The army captain involved in the fake encounter in Kashmir’s Shopian district last July and two other civilian accused haven’t provided any information about the source of weapons planted on the three slain youths and had also attempted to destroy the evidence, a police charge sheet said.Captain Bhoopendra Singh had also provided wrong information to his superiors and the police about the recovery made during the staged encounter, the charge sheet filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police before the chief judicial magistrate here said.The case relates to the July 18, 2020 encounter in Shopian’s Amshipura in which three youths were killed and dubbed as terrorists. Later, the army ordered a Court of Inquiry after reports appeared on social media that the three youths were innocent.“No leads regarding the source of illegal weapons as illegally arranged by accused” for planting on the bodies were provided, the charge sheet said.“By staging the encounter,” the three accused “have purposefully destroyed evidence or real crime that they have committed and also have (been) purposefully projecting false information as part of a criminal conspiracy hatched between them with the motive to grab a prize money of ₹20 lakh,” it said.The army, however, had denied that its captain staged the encounter for ₹20 lakh, saying there was no system of cash rewards for its personnel for any acts in combat situations or otherwise in the line of duty.“The evidence was destroyed by accused Captain Singh,” the charge sheet said.Singh, who has been placed under detention, along with the other two accused -- Tabish Nazir and Bilal Ahmed Lone -- set fire to a shelter at the encounter site, according to the charge sheet. The SIT charge sheet gave details of forensic analysis of the crime scene which was photographed “from all possible perspectives”. The FSL (Forensic and Scientific Laboratory) team recovered vital evidence that was seized.Based on responses filed by 62 Rashtriya Rifles to the SIT about details of the ammunition fired during the incident along with a copy of SITREP (Situation Report), the “accused captain had claimed to have (sic) fired a total of 37 rounds from his service rifle”. The army, in its FIR registered at Heerpora police station, had claimed that based on “their own input about hiding of unknown terrorists in village Amshipora”, the encounter was launched on July 17, 2020 during which three unidentified hardcore terrorists were neutralised. Two pistols with two magazines and four empty pistol cartridges, 15 live cartridges and 15 empty cartridges of AK series weapon and other objectionable items were recovered from the encounter site. However, during the ballistic and forensic examination of the scene of crime, four empty cartridges were recovered -- two of which were from 7.65 mm and two from 9 mm pistols (used by the army).“From the circumstances at the crime scene which are contrary to the findings of the ballistic expert opinion the version of the accused captain Bhoopendra Singh... regarding information furnished by him in FIR is not supported.” There was no seizure of AK rifles from the staged encounter.The charge sheet submitted by the SIT has listed 75 witnesses in support of its findings and has also provided technical evidence including call data records of the accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-fake-encounter-army-captain-tried-to-destroy-evidence-say-cops-101611533699323.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold talks on LAC row||India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh, where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral ties, at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said.The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the ninth round of military dialogue was not known when this report was filed.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not yielded results. “The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” said one of the officials cited above.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks whereas the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” said a second official.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said that India was ready to match China’s aggression in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the two countries have been locked in a border row since May 2020. “If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality),” said the IAF chief.Last month, he said the likely reasons for Chinese actions in the Ladakh sector could include a planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theatre forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks.India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration.On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Earlier, Naravane said India should not read too much into the withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no troop cut by either side at friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-talks-on-lac-row-101611533488438.html
25-01-2021||India||Historical blunder corrected: Javadekar on Babri demolition||The Ram mandir being constructed at Ayodhya is a temple of unity of the country and people from different faiths support it, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said in New Delhi on Sunday.Speaking at an event at the Delhi BJP office to felicitate people who donated substantial sums for the construction of the Ram temple, Javadekar said the ‘Ram Janmbhoomi Andolan’ was a movement for the country’s self respect.“The Ram Mandir coming up at Ram Janmbhoomi is a temple of unity of the country. Ram unifies the country and symbolises the unity of the country,” he said.“When Babar came to India he chose to destruct Ram temple in Ayodhya as he understood that the living force of the country rested there,” said the Union Information and Broadcasting minister. He further said the disputed structure that came up after alleged destruction of an ancient Ram temple in Ayodhya was not a mosque because no worship happened there.Javadekar said he was in Ayodhya in 1992 and witnessed how a “historical blunder(Aitihasik Bhool)” was corrected.“We were sleeping there a night before. The three domes (of Babri Masjid) were visible. Next day the world saw how a historical blunder was removed,” he said.Javadekar said the collection of contributions from people for the Ram temple is like the one under which farmers of six lakh villages provided pieces of iron for Sardar Patel’s statue in Gujarat. “If we are asking people for help in the construction of Ram Mandir, they are happily donating for it. We have to reach every hold. People are contributing ₹10 to ₹10 crore. Some will even contribute more,” Javadekar added furtherHe said the Supreme Court judgement paving the way for construction of the Ram temple led to a wave of joy across the country. “I am happy that lord Ram is no longer claimed by one religion and has become a symbol of pride for the entire country. Even people of other religions favour construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya,” he said. He said construction of the Ram Mandir has begun in Ayodhya and it will be completed in two years. Not only all Indians but crores of people from all over the world will visit Ayodhya to see the grand Ram temple there, added the minister.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historical-blunder-corrected-javadekar-on-babri-demolition-101611533206251.html
25-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Rahul hits out at Modi, govt over Chinese intrusion, GST, farm stir||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government over the issues of Chinese intrusion, farmers, economy and the ideology of the BJP-RSS combine here on the second day of his campaign in Tamil Nadu, where assembly elections are slated for April-May.“As we speak today, thousands of Chinese troops are occupying our territory and the man with a 56-inch chest cannot even say the word China,” Gandhi said.Gandhi conducted public meetings, road shows in Tirupur and Erode districts on Sunday and interacted with the weavers community and had a traditional lunch on a leaf with them. Gandhi reiterated on Tamil language, culture and spirit in his outreach to the voters.“I will be Tamil Nadu’s soldier in Delhi. I’m here to help elect a government of farmers, labourers, small and medium business people, a government that looks after the interest of Tamil Nadu, a government that cannot be blackmailed by Narendra Modi,” he said.In a veiled attack on Modi’s monthly radio programme, he said, “I’ve not come here to tell you my Mann Ki Baat; I’ve come here to listen to resolve your problems with you. I’m not a Tamil but I understand, accept and listen Tamil spirit & culture. I won’t allow the Prime Minister & BJP to disrespect Tamil people.”He also attacked the Centre over rise in fuel prices, saying people are suffering due to inflation. “Modi ji has brought about tremendous growth in GDP -- gas, diesel and petrol -- prices. People are suffering due to inflation, while the Modi government is busy in tax collection,” he said.Gandhi will meet farmers in Karur district on Monday.The Bharatiya Janata Party in Tamil Nadu, an ally of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), on Sunday released a four-page statement titled, ‘BJP is for Tamils, their culture and their livelihood’ to counter Gandhi’s comments that Modi- BJP is suppressing the Tamil spirit.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rahul-hits-out-at-modi-govt-over-chinese-intrusion-gst-farm-stir-101611530809234.html
25-01-2021||India||PM Modi lauds NCC cadets, artistes ahead of Republic Day parade||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with the NCC cadets and artistes who will perform in the Republic Day parade this Tuesday and said India’s parade pays tribute to the country’s Constitution, which “brings alive the world’s largest democracy”.Lauding the spirit of various cadets and artistes who have prepared with zeal and fervour to perform in Tuesday’s parade, PM Modi said, “Coronavirus has really changed a lot. Masks, corona tests and social distancing (Do Gaz ki Doori) have now become part of our everyday life. Despite this, there is no lack in your enthusiasm.”“When you step on the Rajpath with zeal, every countryman is filled with enthusiasm. When you show a glimpse of the rich art, culture, tradition and heritage of India, the head of every countryperson rises with pride,” PM Modi said in his conversation with the performers.The Republic Day parade, PM Modi said, pays tribute to India’s great social, cultural heritage, as well as our strategic strength.“This year our country is entering its 75th year of independence. This year is also the 400th Prakash Parv of Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji. In the same year we are also making 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose,” PM Modi said.Urging people to make the nation stronger, PM Modi said, “We did not get an opportunity to sacrifice our everything for the independence of the country. But the country has definitely given us the opportunity to give our best. We should keep doing what we can to make the country stronger.”India will be holding it’s first Republic Day parade with Covid-19 protocols in place in a bid to contain the spread.Unlike any previous parade, the jawans will be seen wearing masks and only 25,000 spectators will witness the function this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-ncc-cadets-artistes-ahead-of-republic-day-parade-101611530605794.html
25-01-2021||India||Bodo accord has brought peace to BTR, says Amit Shah in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the Bodoland Territorial Region Accord, which was inked a year ago, triggered the process of ending insurgency in the North-east and was able to bring peace to the troubled region in Assam.The Bodo Accord, the third peace deal with Bodo rebel groups, was signed in New Delhi on January 27 last year by the Centre with all four factions of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), the All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) and United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO).“Peace has returned to Bodo areas due to the accord. There used to be killings and abductions here, but I can assure that in a few years, this region will become the most developed part of Assam,” he said while addressing a rally in Kokrajhar, the BTR headquarters, to mark one year of the signing of the accord.“Several steps have already been taken to implement clauses of the accord. I have come to reiterate the commitments made last year and assure that the Centre and state governments would fulfil all the promises made in the accord,” he added.He also attacked the Congress for failing to fulfil promises and implement accords.“If Assam has to be made corruption-free, infiltrator-free, terrorism-free and pollution-free, then only the BJP can do so under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shah said. Assam is among the five states slated to hold assembly elections this year.Pitching for another term for a BJP-led government in Assam to “safeguard” the interests of the state, Shah said the Congress-AIUDF combine would open “all gates” to infiltrators if voted to power.In his first political rally in the poll-bound state, Shah also took a swipe at the Congress for calling the BJP “communal”, and questioned the grand old party’s alliance with the Muslim League in Kerala and the Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF in Assam, two regional parties that draw their support mostly from Muslims.The Congress said that the claim that the BJP ensured peace and stability in Assam by curbing insurgency was a “hogwash” as it is well-known that Congress is credited with the surrender of several ULFA leaders as well as their rehabilitation and bringing peace to the state while the outfit had declared unilateral ceasefire in 2011.The accord was expected to end the decades-old violent demand for a separate Bodoland state and bring peace to areas dominated by Bodos, the largest tribe in Assam. Soon after signing of the accord, 1,615 cadres of NDFB laid down arms and in March, the outfit disbanded itself.The deal renamed Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD), which included four districts, as the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). Redrawing of BTR boundaries, grant of ₹5,000 crore, rehabilitation of NDFB rebels and naming Bodo as associate official language of the state were also part of the deal.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodo-accord-has-brought-peace-to-btr-says-amit-shah-in-assam-101611530346988.html
25-01-2021||India||Kerala hands solar scandal probe to CBI||Kerala’s Party of India (Marxist)-led government on Sunday unexpectedly decided to hand over a probe of the Team Solar scandal, which almost led to the fall of the Oomen Chandy regime seven years ago, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) just months ahead of assembly elections due to take place in the state.The move came after Chandy was made chief of the Congress party’s election management committee for the polls.The scandal centred around a fictitious solar energy company called Team Solar formed in 2013 by an alleged con woman named Saritha Nair and second husband, Biju Radhakrishnan, who boasted of their contacts with the chief minister’s office, and cheated people out of money by seeking investments with the promise of making them business partners or offering to install solar power units. Chandy was then the Kerala CM.With the transfer of the case to the CBI, the Left Front government has ensured that two women-- Nair and Swapna Suresh, the principal suspect in a gold smuggling racket unearthed in July -- will be among the central characters in the campaign for the assembly elections due in April-May.The opposition Congress said it was a politically motivated move by the Pinarayi Vijayan government with an eye on the assembly elections.The party will deal with it legally and politically, it said.Nair petitioned Vijayan last week complaining that she was yet to receive justice in sexual assault cases she filed against many Congress leaders ,and called for a probe by a central agency.The government moved quickly to counter the opposition’s campaign against it over the gold smuggling racket by acting on the request.The solar scandal surfaced in 2014 and 60 cases were registered against Nair and her husband. Chandy sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names cropped up in the case.The government also constituted a judicial commission to probe the case.Interestingly, Nair was sentenced in at last six cases and is out on bail. In the 2019 parliament elections, she attempted to take on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Kerala’s Wayanad, but her nomination papers were rejected because of her conviction.Last year, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea by her questioning Gandhi’s election and imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on her.“At least three senior police officers investigated the case and found no evidence to prove her claims. For almost five years, the government sat over the case and explored many ways to make it alive. Neck-deep in corruption, gold smuggling and drug trafficking charges, it dusted out an old case as a face-saver,” said senior Congress leader K C Joseph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hands-solar-scandal-probe-to-cbi-101611529459174.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers across India prepare for Republic Day stir||As thousands of farmers have started marching towards Delhi borders to participate in the tractor rally on Republic Day, agriculture organisations have decided to hold similar parades at state and district headquarters across the country.Thousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarkhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads, including the busy Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Meerut highways.Traffic police officials in the four states mentioned above said several arterial roads leading to the national highways towards Delhi were choked with a huge number of vehicles as no directions had been issued to stop them. “I belong to a farming family and I decided to take my two children to Delhi for this historic parade,” said Ritu Rani, who drove a tractor from Chandigarh and was stuck at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal.Although farm leaders such as Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni, had appealed to farmers not to bring trailers, the farmers en route to Delhi said they were taking the trailers along as they will stay in Delhi until the laws are withdrawn. In Haryana, farm bodies have not planned any parade in the state as the focus is on the Delhi rally. However, farmers in Punjab would hold protests at nearly 100 locations. “We want the maximum number of farmers from Punjab to reach the Singhu, Tikri and other borders of Delhi along with their tractors and those who have stayed back should take part in the ongoing protest at the ongoing locations,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, a general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), the farm body that has the highest number of members of all the bodies spearheading the stir.From villages in western Uttar Pradesh, thousands of tractors had already left for Delhi, farm leaders said, even as the state police tried to persuade them not to participate in the rally. “We had evolved a formula of 1 village, 1 tractor, 11 persons from a village to support the movement,” Bharatiya Kisan Union youth wing state president Digamber Singh said. Chaudhary Diwakar Singh, national vice president of BKU (Bhanu), added they have aimed for 500,000 tractors to participate in parade.At some places, police issued prohibitory orders to prevent any violence on Republic Day. Inspector general of police of Meerut range Praveen Kumar, who is camping in Ghaziabad since the beginning of the agitation, met farmer leaders and denied that police were preventing them from reaching Delhi. The statement came after media reports said farmers were being denied the purchase of diesel at some places in Uttar Pradesh; police said there were no such orders in place.Close to 1,500 tractors with farmers from Uttarakhand will reach Delhi for the January 26 protest. Many have reached Haridwar and Uddam Singh Nagar districts. Farmer leader Vikas Chaudhary said from all the blocks of Haridwar district, farmers on tractors will be gathering at Narsain on Monday and then leave for Delhi in groups.Several farmer, Dalit and worker groups in Karnataka are expected to take part in rallies across the state to express solidarity with proposed RD parade in Delhi. “We are going to take out a rally in Bengaluru and are expecting around 25,000 vehicles and even bullock carts. People will enter the city from all major roads leading into Bengaluru,” Kuruburu Shanthakumar, president of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association said on Sunday, adding similar protests would be held in Belagavi and Bagalkot also.In Tamil Nadu, farmers and labour unions will take part in the Republic Day tractor rally in various districts across the state. “Tractors, bullock carts and two-wheelers or whatever vehicle we get, we will carry out a parade,” said AIKSCC state coordinator K Balakrishanan.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-india-prepare-for-republic-day-stir-101611529283066.html
25-01-2021||India||Andhra Asha worker dies after Covid vaccine dose, autopsy awaited||A 42-year-old woman working as an accredited social health activist (Asha) in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district died of a brain stem stroke on Sunday, four days after she received a Covid-19 vaccine, but a senior official said it wasn’t possible to establish a link between the jab and the stroke.The authorities at Guntur General Hospital (GGH) said Bokka Vijaya Lakshmi of Penumaka village, who was admitted to hospital with complaints of severe headache, giddiness, seizures and vomiting on Friday evening, died early on Sunday. Vijayalakshmi took the Covishield vaccine shot along with 10 others on January 20.“She was absolutely fine on the day of vaccination and even the next day. According to her family members, she developed mild symptoms on the midnight of January 21; when her condition turned serious the following day, she was brought to Guntur General Hospital,” Guntur district immunisation officer Dr Chukka Ratna Manmohan said.GGH superintendent Dr G Prabhavati said the hospital authorities had carried out all investigations after she was brought to the hospital.Dr Manmohan said investigations revealed that Vijayalakshmi developed a blood clot in the brain that led to the stroke.“We do not know exactly whether she already had the blood clot in her brain before vaccination or whether it was induced by vaccination. We are hoping to find some reason after conducting the autopsy,” he said.The immunisation officer said there was no way it could be established that it was a vaccine-induced death. “First of all, Covid-19 itself is one-year old in the country. And the vaccination for Covid-19 is still in its nascent stage. We have not come across any such incidents of brain stroke due to vaccination in any part of the country so far,”Dr Manmohan said.District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Jonnalagadda Yasmin, in a statement, said out of 11 persons including a medical officer who got vaccinated at the Tadepalli primary health centre on January 20, only Vijayalakshmi and an auxiliary nurse midwife Gottimukkala Lakshmi, 38, showed symptoms of giddiness and seizures in the next two days.“They were shifted to GGH by the AEFI committee. While Vijayalakshmi’s condition turned critical due to brain stroke, the other woman is stable and recovering,” she said.Vijayalakshmi’s husband Sambasiva Rao, a village revenue assistant at Penumaka, said she had no other health complications. “She developed symptoms only after receiving the vaccination,” he said. Rao, along with other family members, hundreds of activists of CPI (M), staged a sit-in at the GGH, demanding a compensation of ₹50 lakh and a government job to one of her two sons and a plot of land to build a house. Meanwhile, a 45-year-old Anganwadi worker died in Telangana’s Warangal district on Sunday, five days after she was vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-asha-worker-dies-after-covid-vaccine-dose-autopsy-awaited-101611528611276.html
25-01-2021||India||1.6 million Covid jabs given, Karnataka sees highest turnout||India vaccinated 1.6 million health care workers since coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive was launched in the country on January 16 till Sunday, said the Union health ministry .Karnataka tops the list so far with maximum number of vaccinations at 191,443, followed by Odisha (152,371) and Andhra Pradesh (147,030).Close to 30,000 vaccination sessions have been conducted in the country so far at about 3,000 plus sites.“India took only 6 days to roll out 1 million vaccine doses. This count is higher for countries like USA and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas USA took 10 days to reach the 1 million mark,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Sunday.There are still an estimated 8.4 million health care workers remaining to be vaccinated across the country, and the government is making efforts to scale up by increasing vaccination sites in next few weeks.The initial plan was to ramp the facility to add at least 2,000 more vaccination sites across the country, making it about 5,000 sites, in about two weeks from the launch day.Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, had said during the launch, “It is starting with about 3,000, but the vaccination sessions will be scaled up to about 5,000 in next fortnight or so.”The Centre had advised states to conduct Covid-19 vaccinations for at least four days in a week, and states, after due deliberation, had come up with an individual vaccination plan according to their local requirements, infrastructure and human resources availability. Different states are following a different vaccination schedule that ranges from six to two days in a week, depending on local conditions and needs.Initially, there was a low turnout of health care workers at vaccination centres, which both the Centre and state governments attributed to vaccine hesitancy among the medical professionals because of spread of a lot of misinformation regarding Covid-19 vaccines permitted for use in India.India’s drugs regulator has granted approval for use in India to two Covid-19 vaccines. Covaxin, which is an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited, and Covishield, a vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and developed by Oxford University and AstroZeneca, have received restricted emergency use authorisation from the national drugs regulator on January 3. While all states have been given Covishield, about 12 states have so far been given Covaxin.The Centre plans to increase the number of states that will introduce Covaxin in days to come. The seven other states that would start doing so from Monday onwards are Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal.Government has been making serious efforts to dispel concerns regarding the vaccines, for which it last week also launched a mass digital awareness campaign. As part of the campaign, the Union health ministry has also been publicising feedback from senior doctors who took the shot against the viral disease, and were doing fine.“One of the reasons why vaccinations have picked up is because a lot of health care workers have got confidence on seeing how there senior were doing fine after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shot. It helps to see your seniors and peers doing fine after receiving the jab,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.“The states were also asked to engage more effectively with the target population so that their concerns are addressed. The efforts seem to have borne fruit as the numbers are picking up with each passing day. India also reached the one-million mark in under a week,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-million-covid-jabs-given-karnataka-sees-highest-turnout-101611527939583.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold another round of military talks to defuse LAC tensions||India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral ties. This comes at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said.The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the ninth round of military dialogue was not known when this report was filed.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not yielded results. “The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when the Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” said one of the officials cited above.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks whereas the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.Also read: Force Taliban to reduce violence and agree to truce, Afghanistan tells Pakistan“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” said a second official.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said that India was ready to match China’s aggression in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the two countries have been locked in a border row since May 2020. "If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality,” said the IAF chief.Last month, he said the likely reasons for Chinese actions in the Ladakh sector could include a planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theatre forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders had met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks. India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration.On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Earlier, Naravane said India should not read too much into the withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no troop cut by either side at friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-military-talks-to-defuse-lac-tensions-101611510270225.html
25-01-2021||India||Metro services to be restricted on Jan 26; these stations to remain closed||Services of Delhi Metro will be restricted partially on Tuesday as part of the security arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Entry and exit at the Central Secretariat station will remain closed till 12pm and it will only be used for interchange of passengers between Line 2 and Line 6, a statement by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said.Services on HUDA City Centre-Samaypur Badli Metro line will be partially regulated on January 26, it said in the statement. Entry at Udyog Bhawan will remain closed until the parade is over, as per the statement. Entry at Patel Chowk Metro station and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro station will also remain closed from 8:45am to 12pm, it added.Also Read | Woman fighter pilot, Rafale jets and soldiers in masks: Key things to watch for this year's Republic Day paradeAll Metro parking lots will be closed from 6am on January 25 and it will remain closed till 2pm on January 26. "This step has been taken as part of the security arrangements," DMRC said in the statement.India is all set to display its military might during the annual parade. However, the Republic Day parade this year will be very different from previous ones amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. In many firsts, the parade will be held without the presence of a chief guest this year. British prime minister Boris Johnson, who had initially accepted India's invitation to be the chief guest, cancelled his visit due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the United Kingdom. The UK is also dealing with a new strain of Covid-19 which transmits from one person to another much faster than the previous one. There were no chief guests during the Republic Day parade in 1952, 1953 and 1966 before this.In view of the pandemic, only 25,000 spectators will witness the Republic Day parade, the government has mandated. Last year, 150,000 spectators were allowed. The number of media persons, too, has been cut from 300 to 200. This year, the Republic Day Parade will end at the National Stadium instead of going up to the Red Fort where it usually concludes. The distance for the march has been reduced by 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-services-to-be-restricted-on-jan-26-these-stations-to-remain-closed-101611472516711.html
