29-01-2021||India||Envelope addressed to Israeli Embassy recovered from blast site by cops: Report||An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of a minor IED blast near the mission in Delhi on Friday, sources said.They said the envelope was addressed to embassy officials, but did not divulge any further details including content of the note."The envelope has been recovered from the blast site," a source said.A minor IED blast took place near the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi on Friday evening, police said. No one was injured.Some cars were damaged in the blast in the very high-security zone. Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said initial impressions suggest that it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation.Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava said that the force has registered a case and its Special Cell has started investigating the matter.The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/envelope-addressed-to-israeli-embassy-recovered-from-blast-site-by-cops-report-101611943050020.html
29-01-2021||India||Budget to be a continuation of last year’s mini-budgets: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said he is hopeful that members of both houses will contribute effectively during the Budget Session of Parliament. He said the budget presentation on Monday will be a continuation of the “mini budgets” that were announced by the government in 2020 to help revive sectors reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is a budget session. This has probably happened for the first time in the history of India that 4-5 mini budgets were presented in 2020. It was a year of mini budgets and this (Budget presentation) will be seen in sequence of those mini budgets,” he said.The Prime Minister was referring to the ₹20 lakh crore economic stimulus package that was announced in five tranches in May as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.Addressing the media ahead of the President’s address, which was boycotted by as many as 19 opposition parties, the PM said the coming decade is crucial for the country’s future and this should be kept in mind while holding discussions in Parliament.“... This is the first session of the decade and for the bright future of India, this decade is crucial. Therefore, from the start, there should be efforts made to ensure the realisation of the aspirations of those who dreamt of a free India,” he said.The PM went on to say, “This is a golden opportunity. We should make the most of this decade and there should be discussions and presentations of all kinds of ideas.”Urging the MPs to fulfil their responsibilities, he said they have been sent to Parliament by the people and they should make the most of being here while abiding by the propriety of democracy. He expressed hope that MPs will not hold back from discharging their duties of fulfilling the aspirations of the people.Senior ministers criticised the opposition parties for staying away from the president’s address. A Congress MP, Ravneet Singh Bittu also raised slogans inside the house during the address.Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said raising slogans in Parliament during the President‘s address was very painful. He said the President is above political differences and the opposition boycotting his speech was unfortunate. The minister also said that despite many “scams in the Congress-led UPA government” the BJP had never boycotted the President‘s address.Union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, “Congress party's existence over last 5-6 years, is based on false narrative that the Modi Govt is against constitutional institution & values. Today the same @INCIndia boycotted the address of the Hon'ble President, the Constitutional head. Their hypocrisy stands exposed again!!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-to-be-a-continuation-of-last-year-s-mini-budgets-pm-modi-101611941650022.html
29-01-2021||India||India and Bangladesh discuss development cooperation, defence line of credit||India and Bangladesh on Thursday discussed ways to speed up development cooperation and operationalise a $500-million line of credit for defence ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dhaka in March.The matters figured in foreign office consultations that were co-chaired by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and his Bangladesh counterpart Masud Bin Momen in New Delhi. The two sides focused on deliverables that could be implemented by the time of PM Modi’s visit to participate in celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Bangladesh is perceived as a key pillar of India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and has benefited from development cooperation worth about $9 billion, including $7.8 billion in lines of credit at concessional rates. India provided seven million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, including two million doses as a grant, to Bangladesh this month.“A lot of the India-funded projects are at the planning stage on the Bangladesh side and the consultations focused on ways to expedite them. We have a list of deliverables and five to six MoUs are expected to be signed during the prime minister’s visit, besides the inauguration of key projects,” one of the people cited above said.Also read: ‘Will spare no effort' - India promises Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiThe two sides also discussed the operationalisation of the line of credit of $500 million for Bangladesh to procure defence equipment from India. The agreement for this was signed last year and the two sides are exploring the supply of “kinetic and non-kinetic equipment,” the people said.India provided 18 120mm mortars and ammunition to Bangladesh last December – the first supply of kinetic equipment – and a 122-member Bangladeshi tri-services contingent participated in the Republic Day parade this year, reflecting the burgeoning defence ties between the two countries.The sharing of waters of the Teesta river, a long-standing demand of the Bangladeshi side, figured in Friday’s talks, the people said. Though the Indian side remains committed to an agreement on this issue, the people said the two sides should forge ahead with an agreement on six other rivers, for which data has already been shared.The Bangladeshi side also raised repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar, another long-standing issue for which Bangladesh has sought India’s help in view of its good ties with Myanmar.The people said the Indian side is ready to play the role of a facilitator for the safe and sustainable repatriation of Rohingyas and pointed to development projects being implemented in Rakhine state. “India has built 250 houses in Rakhine and is currently identifying projects for the third phase of a project in Myanmar. It is also developing Sittwe port in Rakhine to boost economic development despite security challenges,” the person cited above said.The two sides also renewed an air bubble arrangement to facilitate essential travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-bangladesh-discuss-development-cooperation-defence-line-of-credit-101611941355860.html
29-01-2021||India||‘Warm conversation’: Jaishankar on introductory phone call with Antony Blinken||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his new US counterpart Antony Blinken on Friday pledged to expand the strategic partnership between the two countries and to work for peace and security in the Indo-Pacific.Jaishankar described the introductory phone call with Blinken as a “warm conversation” in a tweet, and said they discussed the efforts of the two sides to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.This was the latest in a series of formal contacts between the new US administration and India’s top leadership. Earlier, US defence secretary Lloyd Austin spoke to defence minister Rajnath Singh and US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke to his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval, with the two sides committing themselves to enhanced cooperation on defence and security issues and in the Indo-Pacific region.Jaishankar and Blinken “expressed their commitment to consolidate and expand the multi-faceted strategic partnership”, the external affairs ministry said.They appreciated the “robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages”, which are important pillars of this partnership.They also discussed the challenges of a post-Covid-19 world and agreed to work together to address global issues, including safe and affordable vaccine supply.“They also reiterated their commitment to peace and security, especially in the Indo-Pacific region,” the ministry said.Jaishankar tweeted: “Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to working with him again. Agreed that we could build further on the solid foundation of our partnership. Also discussed our efforts at combating the Covid-19 pandemic.”In his confirmation hearing in the US Senate earlier this month, Blinken had said China presents the “most significant challenge” to the US whereas India has been a “bipartisan success story” with which the Biden administration can deepen cooperation in many ways.Blinken, a career diplomat who served as deputy national security advisor and deputy secretary of state under former president Barack Obama, had also said the Obama administration deepened cooperation with India, particularly in defence procurement and information-sharing.He added that the Trump administration had carried forward the cooperation, including “with this concept of an Indo-Pacific and to make sure that we were working with India so that no country in the region, including China, could challenge its sovereignty and also working with it on concerns that we share about terrorism”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warm-conversation-jaishankar-on-introductory-phone-call-with-antony-blinken-101611940655869.html
29-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu's ruling alliance uneasy ahead of VK Sasikala's return||Days ahead of the release of VK Sasikala from a Bengaluru hospital after a four-year jail sentence, comments emerged from those linked to the AIADMK and its partner, indicating a sense of uneasiness in the ruling alliance over her turn to the southern state.Sasikala is likely to be back in the first week of February, according to her family, after she is discharged from Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital where is being treated for Covid-19.After the ruling AIADMK established that they will not take her back, the leadership issued an unofficial gag order to its party members not to speak of Sasikala. The party also expelled a functionary from Tirunelveli for putting up a poster welcoming Sasikala on the day of her release from Bengaluru prison. But in the past few days, voices outside but linked to the AIADMK have not played by their rulebook.AIADMK's coordinator O Paneerselvam's son, VP Jayapradeep tweeted a note wishing Sasikala a speedy recovery adding a caveat that his expression is humane and not political. Though Paneerselvam resigned as chief minister to make way for Sasikala and she, in turn, handpicked Palanswami to be chief minister while she served her jail term - they both rebelled against each other and against Sasikala at different stages. After several negotiations, Palaniswami and Paneerselvam merged their factions and expelled Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran from AIADMK in September 2017.Also read: We take it seriously, Jaishankar tells Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiAIADMK's ally the DMDK’s party treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth said she welcomes Sasikala's entry into active politics. “As a woman, she has my support,” said Premalatha, who has been the face of the party since her husband and actor-turned-party founder Vijayakanth’s has been ailing. Premalatha has asked the AIADMK to allot 41 seats to them as they did in 2011 when the DMDK was at its peak but has since fallen with no elected member currently.Another actor-turned-politician S Karunas, an MLA elected on the AIADMK symbol, said that Sasikala made Palaniswami chief minister by thwarting Prime Minister Narendra’s Modi interests after supremo Jayalalithaa's death and those speaking against her should have a conscience. Karunas said that he will support the AIADMK government as Jayalalithaa and Sasiaka supported his political-caste outfit, Mukkulathor Pulipadai.A section of the AIADMK doesn’t want to rock the status quo of the dual leadership of Palaniswami-Paneeerselvam. Sasikala’s supporters within the party differ. “Any party will have dissidents and even if some unhappy members join her, it will not impact us,” said a senior AIADMK leader. A few days ago, Palaniswami announced after meeting PM Modi in Delhi that Sasikala ceased to be an AIADMK member and she won’t be reinducted.The ruling party’s ally, the BJP has not publicly commented on Sasikala’s release. At least three senior leaders have said that her induction into the party is the AIADMK’s decision. “We are not calling any shots as perceived,” said a BJP leader in the state, not willing to be named. “We are only looking to strengthen our party and defeat the DMK. For that goal, we have no objection to whoever wants to join our alliance.”“Paneerselvam has silently accepted what Palaniswami has openly said,” says political commentator Ravindran Duraisamy. “They will not allow her into the party because they will be sidelined and it will be detrimental to their leadership. When Congress’ K Kamaraj contested, 30 per cent MLAs supported C Subramaniam. When Modi became chief minister, Keshubai Patel and others were against him. But when Sasikala became the AIADMK chief, almost all legislators supported her. She and Dhinakaran will have to take an anti-Modi stance for the benefit of their political interest.” On Paneerselvam’s son’s support, he says, “it is the Mukkulathor community sympathising with her.”Dhinakaran’s party, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), floated with Sasikala’s supporters celebrated in Bengaluru and across Tamil Nadu when she was released and are planning an elaborate welcome for her. AMMK cadres want her to regain control of the AIADMK and unite their factions. There is no clarity on Sasikala's political intentions as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-ruling-alliance-uneasy-ahead-of-vk-sasikala-s-return-101611940891852.html
29-01-2021||India||Karnataka govt seeks Centre's nod for priority vaccination for teachers||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday appealed to the Centre to treat teachers as frontline workers and include them in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive for the priority sector. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, he said the staff of the education department, especially teachers, played a huge role in containing the pandemic through their on-field work, including maintenance of containment zones. "It would be the best recognition of their services if teachers are declared as frontline workers, in terms of getting a vaccine for Covid-19," the minister said in the letter, enclosing a copy of the state Chief Secretary's proposal in this regard. Suresh Kumar said the government had utilised the services of the teachers for door-to-door collection of data, propagating the importance of social distancing, assisting the health staff like never before and for many other allied activities. "Approving the proposal submitted by the Chief Secretary of Karnataka would go a long way in instilling the much needed faith of this community in our system," he said in the letter, a copy of which was released to media here. The vaccination drive started in the state on January 16 and at present covers the medical and paramedical staff in the priority sector. As of Thursday, a total of 2,84,385 people have been vaccinated in the state in the ongoing phase. The government has said after covering the frontline workers, people with co-morbidities and above 50 years would be given the vaccine. The state government's proposal comes at a time when schools and colleges have started functioning, especially for the classes 10, PUC second year and final year degree students in the state since early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-seeks-centre-s-nod-for-priority-vaccination-for-teachers-101611923357408.html
29-01-2021||India||‘Not asking for the moon’: Amarinder Singh nudges Centre to repeal 3 farm laws||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh spoke to Vinod Sharma about the violent incidents that marred the Republic Day tractor rally by farmers, and his support to the movement against the contentious new laws.Edited excerpts:Q. The violence during the January 26 tractor rally has sullied the struggle for the repeal of the farm laws. What could be the way forward now?A. This vilification campaign against farmers, and the attempt to undermine their fight by using words like “sullied” has to end. There is a conspiracy to use the violence of R-Day as an excuse to destroy the farmers’ agitation, and also to vilify me and my government. The Red Fort violence was clearly the act of some antisocial elements who wanted to undermine the stir. The denigration of farmers is not right, nor are the cases filed against them and the lookout notices against their leaders. These cases should be immediately withdrawn. The Punjabis are a peaceful people; the farmers have been agitating for months without resorting to any lawlessness. So stop blaming them for the violence. There is a conspiracy to use the violence of R-Day as an excuse to destroy the agitation. The farmers’ struggle is genuine. They are fighting for their lives, with their lives. The only way to end the impasse is talks, and more talks. Peaceful negotiations have resolved all imbroglios in the past and will do so again. The talks held between the farmers and the Centre saw significant headway, with the latter eventually offering to put the farm laws in abeyance. The talks should resume.Q. You seem to be asking for the moon by insisting that the Centre take back the laws. It didn’t agree to the demand when the unions were talking from a position of strength -- the climate has since changed, given the outrage over the raising of the Sikh flag at Red Fort.A. Nobody is asking for the moon. What the farmers are fighting for, and what I and my government is supporting, is their right. That is where the farmers’ position of strength came from. The central government recognised that strength when they decided to engage with farmers. That position remains unchanged notwithstanding the unfortunate and shameful incidents of January 26. Nobody should make the mistake of underestimating the strength of our farmers. They have carried the burden of feeding a billion-plus people for all these years, and continue to do so. The farm laws are simply not in the interest of the farmers, or the agriculture sector, or my state. Let’s not forget that they really are bad in terms of the constitutional spirit of federalism. They were brought in violation of Schedule 7 of the Constitution, under which agriculture is categorically defined as a state subject. So why should the Centre intrude into a state subject? Why stand on ego? What’s wrong with scrapping the laws that aren’t acceptable to the people for whom they are designed? Why can’t the Centre start afresh on a clean slate? Revoke these laws, sit with farmers and other stakeholders, including states, and bring laws that can be truly said to be in the interest of farmers; that can reform the sector without destroying its essence.Q. The Centre offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months and take the dialogue forward through a bipartisan panel. Won’t it be prudent to accept the proposal if it’s still on the table?A. The farmers are not begging for alms, they are fighting for their right. The decision on what is or isn’t acceptable rests with the farm unions. No political party has a say in the matter, and, contrary to the lies that have been spread, nobody can dictate to the farmers. They know what’s good for them and what isn’t. It’s not a question of ego or honour, but of survival.Q. But do you see a more proactive role for yourself and other leaders from Punjab and Haryana, besides UP and Maharashtra, in resolving the logjam? There could be security implications in Punjab and elsewhere since Delhi Police has lodged cases under stringent laws against the farm leaders.A. It is the farmers whose interests are hurt - no political leader, no party, can intervene or mediate unless the farmers want them to. My government and I stand firmly with the farmers. We have already passed our state amendment laws to negate the impact of the central laws; we are supporting the families of the agitating farmers back home in every way. As for the security implications of the cases registered by the Delhi Police, I am sure the farmers will not create any problems in Punjab over that. They are well aware that Punjab has no role to play in those cases. We allowed them to agitate peacefully for nearly three months in the state.I hope that the Centre will direct Delhi Police not to target or harass the farm leaders unless there is concrete proof of their involvement in the Jan 26 incidents. The violence is totally condemnable and the culprits should be punished. But let not the incidents of that day become an excuse for disrupting the farmers’ peaceful agitation. As I mentioned earlier, the cases against the farm leaders need to be withdrawn immediately if an amicable solution is to be found in national interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-a-conspiracy-to-destroy-farmers-agitation-says-amarinder-singh-101611938370202.html
29-01-2021||India||Economists divided over Economic Survey's growth projections||Economists are divided over the growth projections in the latest Economic Survey, with some saying that the assumptions are realistic while others holding that a big capital expenditure (capex) by the government will be needed to realise the forecasts.Earlier in the day, Chief Economic Adviser KV Subramanian projected an 11% growth for 2021-22, aided by V-shaped recovery and a 7.7% contraction for the current year. It also projects a lower 6.8% growth in 2022-23.The last growth contraction of 5.2% was seen in the financial year 1980.The Survey said the agriculture sector is the only silver lining, while services, manufacturing and construction sectors are the most hit by the lockdown due to the pandemic."After an estimated 7.7% pandemic-driven contraction in 2020-21, real GDP is projected to grow 11% in 2021-22 and the nominal GDP to grow by 15.4%."These conservative estimates reflect the upside potential that can manifest due to the continued normalisation in economic activities as the roll-out of the pandemic vaccine gathers traction," the Survey said.However, Icra Rating Principal Economist Aditi Nayar feels that the numbers are a bit too optimistic and need real heavy-lifting by the Centre and the states."The survey forecasts on real and nominal GDP will require a substantial push from Central and state spending as private sector capacity expansion is anticipated to be intermittent, and sector-specific in the next couple of quarters," she said.Nayar added that private consumption is likely to chart a differentiated recovery across income and age groups.Based on the comments made in the Survey, she expects the Union Budget to incorporate a growth in gross tax revenue of 15%-16%. It, in conjunction with a stiff target for the divestment proceeds, would allow the government to project a considerable expansion in spending, especially on capex, she added.If gross domestic product (GDP) grows higher as projected, it will help government finances to revert to a sustainable fiscal trajectory over the medium term, Nayar noted.She expects the Union Budget to target a fiscal deficit of 5% for 2021-22 and a gross gross borrowing of ₹11.7 lakh crore.However, PwC India Leader (Economic Advisory Services) Ranen Banerjee said the projected growth targets are achievable, given the lower base of a 7.7% projected contraction in 2020-21.Grant Thornton National Managing Partner (Tax) Vikas Vasal said the Survey challenges the status quo on many things and calls for bold policy measures, to achieve long-term sustainable growth.It also sets the tone for the Budget to go aggressive on reforms, simplify tax and regulatory laws and ease of doing business, he added.CBRE India Chairman Anshuman Magazine said that if infrastructure and industrial sectors get revived as projected, they will prove to be pivotal to the overall growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economists-divided-over-economic-survey-s-growth-projections-101611937490205.html
29-01-2021||India||New definition of reform, democracy: Chidambaram slams Economic Survey||Hours after the government tabled the Economic Survey 2020-2021, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram slammed the report saying the terms defined in it as reforms have all been rejected by the people of the country. In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said while the Economic Survey is “witnessing a V-shaped recovery”, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has that the Indian economy "will reach the pre-Covid level only in 2025!"“According to the Survey, the top three ‘structural reforms’ were the (1) anti farmer laws (2) the new MSME definition and (3) the four Labour Codes. The farmers have rejected the three Farm laws. The MSMEs have said that they had got no relief at all. The Trade Unions have rejected the four Labour Codes. What is reform is what the people have rejected. It is the new definition of ‘reform’ and ‘democracy’,” the former Union finance minister said in one of his tweets.The farmers have rejected the three Farm laws. The MSMEs have said that they had got norelief at all. The Trade Unions have rejected the four Labour Codes! What is reform is what the people have rejected. It is the new definition of ‘reform’ and ‘democracy’Chidambaram also pointed out the "best decision" of the Centre. "The best decision taken by the government is the decision not to print the Economic Survey. Once upon a time, the Survey was the vehicle to communicate to the people in simple language the state of the economy and the prospects in the coming year," he said. "The most frequently used word in the Economic Survey is “regression”. The current government has taught us the meaning of “recession”. When you learn the meaning of “recession” and “regression”, you will qualify to be included in the team to write the next Economic Survey," he added.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Economic Survey 2020-21 in Parliament on Friday, ushering the Budget session. The Budget will be presented on February 1. The government's pre-Budget state of economy document hailed the three contentious farm laws, stating that they will give freedom to the markets as well as help in raising incomes of small and marginal farmers. "The newly introduced farm laws herald a new era of market freedom which can go a long way in the improvement of farmer welfare in India," the survey said.The document also added that the reforms in agriculture markets will enable the creation of 'one India one market' for agri-products, yield innumerable opportunities for farmers to move up the value chain, create jobs and increase incomes."The reforms in the agricultural sector were more overdue than even the labour reforms as the existing laws kept the Indian farmer enslaved to the local mandi and their rent-seeking intermediaries. While every other category of producer in India had the freedom to decide where to sell his/ her produce, the Indian farmer did not," the document observed.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various borders of the national capital seeking repeal of the three bills. They have expressed concerns that the laws are pro-corporate and could weaken government-regulated mandis, also called Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-definition-of-reform-democracy-chidambaram-slams-economic-survey-101611936795835.html
29-01-2021||India||‘Never before….a political leader calling for violence’: Irani on Rahul Gandhi||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of causing political strife and instigating violence.Union minister Smriti Irani said the former Congress president does not want a peaceful resolution of the ongoing farmers’ stir. She also said the Congress has a history of dividing people in the country for political gain.“Today the country witnessed a call for violence by Rahul Gandhi, the former president of the Congress. Exploring the fact...enunciating that he has 15 years of political experience Mr Gandhi gave a clarion call for violence across various cities so much so he included slums where the poor of our country live,” she said.Speaking on the farm agitation, Gandhi addressed a press conference on Friday where he said that the government must not think that the farmers are going back and this situation is going to spread.Reacting to his comments, Irani who is also an MP from Amethi said, “Never before in our democratic history have we witnessed a political leader asking for the fire of violence to spread, instead of seeking peace, instead of promoting peace.”The BJP leader said Gandhi by speaking about violence spreading to cities had “declared war on the Indian people”. She said, “... he said if his political stand is not supported by the PM of our country then cities will burn.”The BJP leader added thathe Gandhi scion has not uttered a word of support or consolation for the police personnel and mediapersons who were injured in the violence that erupted on January 26.“As a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party and citizen of this country I appeal to every Indian citizen to ensure that Rahul Gandhi’s call for violence is met with sustained peace; that his intentions to politically benefit from strife is defeated,” she said.The BJP leader alleged that Gandhi is perplexed about the restrain shown by the police in dealing with the protesters.“I reiterate though he will call for violence...we as citizens of India seek your support to ensure peace. He is insistent on creating political strife but we know that the citizens of India under one flag will ensure that law and order is maintained in our country,” Irani said.She also lashed out at Gandhi for getting the name of Singhu border wrong, where the agitation is on.“He has such lack of information that he does not even know the name of the border....what he said today was very childish and his intention is only to spread violence in the country.”Irani said Gandhi has shown that he stands with anarchic forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-before-a-political-leader-calling-for-violence-irani-on-rahul-gandhi-101611936460714.html
29-01-2021||India||2 BSF officers dismissed, 6 transferred for involvement in cattle smuggling||The Border Security Force have dismissed at least two of its personnel and transferred six others for their alleged involvement in cattle smuggling across the India-Bangladesh international border in West Bengal.“At least two personnel, including a second-in-command and an inspector, have been dismissed in the past 10 days. They were posted in Malda district in 2017–18,” said a top official.In September 2020, the Central Bureau of Investigation had registered a case and arrested two BSF commandants and one local businessman who were allegedly involved in cattle smuggling along south Bengal.The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress had recently lodged a complaint with the Election Commission alleging that a section of BSF personnel were threatening people living along the border areas and asking them to vote for a particular political party.While the ECI has already said the ruling party’s remarks were unfortunate, the BSF have said that it should be provided with specific instances so that actions could be taken.“Someone went to the EC. I have just one simple question. If you let me know the instance, place or the person, we can take all possible actions. But that has not been told to us till now. BSF is a professional force and would never indulge in such activities and in case anybody does he won’t be spared,” said Pankaj Kumar Singh, additional director general of the BSF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-bsf-officers-dismissed-6-transferred-for-involvement-in-cattle-smuggling-101611935703089.html
29-01-2021||India||SC issues notice on plea to fill vacancies at PMLA Tribunal||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice on a petition to fill up vacancies in the Appellate Tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The petition filed by a lawyer, Amit Sahni, pointed out that pendency of cases at the Appellate Tribunal were causing immense hardship to litigants as the post of the tribunal’s Chairman has been vacant since September 2019. Three members on the bench of the tribunal had retired and presently the appellate body had a single member to adjudicate sensitive and crucial cases arising out of appeals under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA), the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), and the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, besides PMLA.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted the hardship pointed out by the petitioner and posted the matter after four weeks. The bench, also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah even sought the response of the Centre on the petition and allowed the petitioner to serve his plea directly to the office of the Solicitor General.The Delhi-based lawyer in his petition said, “The tribunal is struggling to dispense justice particularly in the absence of its Chairman and three members out of sanctioned strength of four and acute shortage of administrative staff.” He made the Ministry of Finance the sole respondent in the petition.In November 2020, the petitioner sought information from the government under the Right to Information Act on total pendency of cases and vacancies in the Tribunal.As per the reply received, the post of one Member fell vacant in 2018 followed by that of the Chairman and two other Members in 2019. “The Tribunal is constrained to function with its sole member and therefore sufficient number of matters cannot be taken up in absence of Presiding Officers,” the petitioner said. About 20 administrative posts at the Tribunal also need to be filled up.Presently, over 5000 cases are pending with the Tribunal of which the bulk of matters arise out of proceedings under PMLA. Before filing the petition, Sahni filed a representation before the government in December 2020 for taking adequate steps to fill the pending vacancies. However, no action has been taken on his request till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-plea-to-fill-vacancies-at-pmla-tribunal-101611934634478.html
29-01-2021||India||Hazare announces indefinite fast, calls it off hours later||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday said he won't be proceeding with the indefinite fast against the new farm laws and claimed that the Central government has agreed to some of his demands.In a statement earlier in the day, Hazare (84) had announced that he will be starting the hunger strike from his village Ralegan Siddhi in Maharashtra on Saturday.In that communication, Hazare had said he had written to the prime minister and Union agriculture minister five times on the plight of farmers but to no avail."The Union government has agreed to some of my demands and also announced setting up a committee to improve the lives of farmers. I have decided to suspend my proposed indefinite fast starting from Saturday, Hazare said.While announcing the hunger strike, Hazare had said, "I have been demanding reforms in the agriculture sector, but the Centre doesn't seem to be taking the right decisions.""The Centre has no sensitivity left for farmers, which is why I am starting my indefinite fast at my village from January 30," he had said and appealed to his supporters not to flock to his village district in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Hazare, who was at the forefront of the anti- corruption movement in 2011, had recalled that when he went on a hunger strike at Delhi's Ramlila Maidan, the then UPA government had called a special session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hazare-announces-indefinite-fast-calls-it-off-hours-later-101611934121854.html
29-01-2021||India||26-year-old woman's throat slit in front of daughter, 5, by stalker: Police||In a hate crime, a 26-year-old married woman was killed by a stalker in front of her five-year-old daughter in Indore on Thursday late evening, said police.The accused Saurabh Gottre has been arrested and two others, including Gottre’s minor brother, have been detained, said Indramani Patel, town inspector, Lasudiya police station in Indore.The police officer said, “The woman, a resident of Gyansheel Supercity, in Indore, and the accused Saurabh Gottre knew each other for the past three years. But Gottre started harassing the woman a few months ago and used to force her to talk to him.”“The woman’s husband had asked Gottre on many occasions to keep away from his wife. Gottre called the woman on Thursday morning and forced her to meet him. Upon refusal, he threatened her of dire consequences and also of killing her husband. The woman informed her husband but later in the evening, Gottre called her again and asked her to meet him near a park. When the woman went to the park with her five-year-old daughter, Gottre slit her throat with a scissor in public view. Gottre ran away on a scooter with her friend and minor brother,” she added.The woman was rushed to a hospital where the doctor declared her brought dead. After the incident, the woman’s daughter is in trauma and being counselled by family members, said Ashutosh Bagri, superintendent of police.“Police arrested the accused within a few hours of the incident,” said Bagri.“Police also arrested two men, including a minor, who helped the accused in running away from the spot,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26yearold-woman-s-throat-slit-in-front-of-daughter-5-by-stalker-police-101611934372699.html
29-01-2021||India||Allahabad HC stays arrest of ‘Mirzapur’ makers Farhan Akhtar, Ritesh Sidhwani||Allahabad High Court on Friday stayed the arrest of producers of Mirzapur web series, Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani, in connection with the first information report (FIR) registered against them in Mirzapur district of Uttar Pradesh. However, the court directed the petitioners to offer full cooperation in the investigation while granting relief.Hearing the writ petition filed by Akhtar and Sidhwani, a division bench comprising Justice Manoj Kumar Gupta and Justice Subhash Chand also issued a notice to the state government and the complainant in the matter seeking their respective replies in counter-affidavits. The court has listed this case in the first week of March 2021.The FIR was registered against Akhtar and Sidhwani and they were accused of the improper and indecent portrayal of the town of Mirzapur and outraging religious beliefs. The two run a production company and are producers of the web series. Akhtar and Sidhwani have been accused of hurting the religious, social and regional sentiments of the first informant and being instrumental in advancing ill feelings and animosity. The FIR was registered against the petitioners under section 295-A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of IPC and 67-A of Information Technology Act.Voicing his discontentment with the web series, the complainant said that such shows must be produced by such a big production house after due deliberations. The complainant alleged that the show has impacted society so much that his friends have started calling him 'Kaaleen Bhaiya', the main protagonist in the said web series.The counsels for Akhtar and Sidhwani argued that even if all the allegations in the FIR were taken to be correct, no offence was made out against the petitioners. They were represented by senior advocate GS Chaturvedi and senior advocate Manish Tiwari and were assisted by advocate Syed Imran Ibrahim. They said there was no allegation that the web series was produced with any deliberate or malicious intention of outraging the religious and social feelings of the citizens of India or to insult the religious and social feelings of the people of any particular class.Reasoning why no action should be taken against the makers, the counsels said that the web series was a work of fiction and that every act which tantamounts to insult or attempts to insult the religious feelings of any class of citizens would not come within the purview of IPC's Section 295-A unless the said act was perpetrated with the deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of that class of citizens.The state counsel submitted that there was a specific allegation that the web series had hurt the social and religious feelings of the first informant. He also alleged that the web series promotes illicit relationships and incites religious disharmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-stays-arrest-of-mirzapur-makers-farhan-akhtar-ritesh-sidhwani-101611931392304.html
29-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala adds more Covid-19 cases day after announcing curbs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala continues adding more Covid-19 cases day after announcing curbsA day after Kerala announced a series of measures to contain the spread of coronavirus; the state reported another hike on Friday with 6,268 new Covid-19 cases and a test positivity rate of 10.66 per cent while the national average is 2.5%. Read moreBlast reported near Israel embassy in Delhi, car windscreens damagedA blast caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday shattered the windscreens of three cars in the area, Delhi Police said adding that there were no injuries. Read moreBeating Retreat 2021: Ceremony marks end of Republic Day celebrationsThe Beating Retreat ceremony which marks the culmination of the four-day long Republic Day celebrations, took place on Friday at the historic Vijay Chowk with as many as 26 performances by the bands by the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). Read moreFacebook to develop tools for advertisers to tackle harmful contentFacebook Inc said on Friday it would soon start developing "topic exclusion controls" on its platform to give advertisers greater ability to weed out certain types of content from appearing alongside their ads. Read more‘Prithvi needs some help’: Former India batsman to work with struggling ShawPrithvi Shaw’s fortunes have turned the entire arc. Since his swashbuckling debut for India in 2018 where he scored a century. Read MoreMichelle Obama shares Nia Dennis’ viral floor routine video, gymnast reactsA floor routine video of US gymnast Nia Dennis has gone all kinds of viral online. Her routine celebrating “black excellence” has earned words of praise from many. Read MoreNavya Naveli Nanda gives a shout-out to rumoured boyfriend Meezaan as he wins best debut awardNavya Naveli Nanda, the granddaughter of actors Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan, cheered for Meezaan as he won a best debut award. The two have been linked together, but he has maintained in several interviews that they are just good friends. Read moreWatch: Rakesh Tikait's tears draw thousands back to Ghazipur protest l Ground reportThousands of farmers have returned to Ghazipur after farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional video went viral on Thursday. The farmer leader in the video said that he would rather commit suicide than withdraw the agitation. He also announced that he would sit on a hunger strike. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-adds-more-covid-19-cases-day-after-announcing-curbs-101611931477937.html
29-01-2021||India||Man held for snatching wireless set from police constable during R-Day violence||Delhi Police on Friday arrested a person who was allegedly involved in snatching a wireless set from a cop during violence in the national capital on Republic Day.The accused has been identified as Ajay Rathee, police said."The accused, who is a resident of Haryana snatched the wireless set from the police constable Sonu on January 26 during farmers protest in Nangloi. The wireless set has been recovered from the accused", further said the Police Department.According to the Delhi Police, Ajay was also involved in three different cases registered in 2019.Nineteen people have been arrested so far and over 25 criminal cases registered by Delhi Police in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor.394 police personnel sustained injuries in the violence and several of them are still admitted to hospitals. Several public and private properties were damaged in acts of vandalism by the protestors. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-snatching-wireless-set-from-police-constable-during-r-day-violence-101611933573616.html
29-01-2021||India||Day after announcing curbs, Kerala continues to add more Covid-19 cases||A day after Kerala announced a series of measures to contain the spread of coronavirus; the state reported another hike on Friday with 6,268 new Covid-19 cases and a test positivity rate of 10.66 per cent while the national average is 2.5%.According to the health ministry, the state also reported 22 deaths taking the death toll to 3,704. The active caseload is 72,239 and 48 health workers are among those infected. Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts reported the maximum number of virus cases, the health ministry said.Most of those infected contracted the disease locally and it clearly indicates community transmission is quite rampant in the state, statistics show. The number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs in various hospitals across the state is 809.The worried government had launched a campaign called “Back to Basics” on Thursday to encourage people to revert to the initial days of the pandemic when they were more cautious about the outbreak and followed rules in letter and spirit.Going by the latest statistics about 40 per cent of the country’s total viral caseload is from the southern state and the TPR is more than four times of the national average. In the wake of the unusual surge, the government has also decided to increase the number of tests and give more preference to RT-PCR tests. Statistics show more than 60 per cent of the total tests are antigen. So far the state has done 95,18,036 tests but the number is low when compared to neighbouring states where it crossed 15 million.With Covid-19 cases surging, the opposition has trained its gun on the government. “Health Minister K K Shailaja should quit owning responsibility. She was giving a wrong picture throughout and now she blames the density of population for the surge,” said Congress leader Benny Behnan MP. When contacted the minister refused to react.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-announcing-curbs-kerala-continues-to-add-more-covid-19-cases-101611932585698.html
29-01-2021||India||‘Will spare no effort’: India promises Israel after blast near embassy in Delhi||Hours after a “very low intensity” explosive device went off near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi, India promised the “fullest protection” for Israel’s mission and diplomats and pledged to spare no effort to trace the perpetrators.“We take this very seriously,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted, announcing his phone call about the explosion outside the Israeli embassy to his counterpart, Gabi Ashkenazi.“Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits,” Jaishankar said after security personnel cordoned off the road leading to the embassy and placed airports on alert.Spoke just now to Israeli FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits.No one was injured but window panes of three cars parked near the embassy were shattered, witnesses said.The explosion coincided with the anniversary of India and Israel establishing full diplomatic relations on January 29, 1992.The Indian FM assured me that the Indian authorities are committed to the security of all Israeli diplomatic staff and will continue to act resolutely to locate all those involved in the explosion.I thanked him and promised full cooperation and any help required from Israel.Besides Jaishankar’s phone call to his counterpart, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke to Israeli foreign secretary Alon Ushpitz, while secretary Sanjay Bhattacharyya, who oversees relations with West Asia, spoke to Israeli ambassador Ron Malka.In a brief video message issued late on Friday, Malka confirmed there were no casualties due to the blast. “There has been an explosion just outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi. Fortunately, nobody is hurt, all the diplomats and their families are safe,” he said.“This explosion happens exactly when we mark 29 years [of] the establishment of full diplomatic relations between Israel and India, and especially in these days, the strong and warm friendship between Israel and India reflects itself,” he said.“We get full cooperation and support from the local police, from the Indian authorities, the ministry of external affairs, the secretary of external affairs, the NSA – they all called their counterparts in Israel, offered their support,” Malka added.The Israeli embassy said in a statement that the blast occurred at around 5 pm. “We are working with Indian authorities to find the perpetrators and the motive behind this attack,” the statement said.Jaishankar had assured his counterpart Ashkenazi that “Indian authorities are committed to the security of all Israeli diplomatic staff and will continue to act resolutely to locate those involved in the explosion”, it said.Ashkenazi thanked Jaishankar and promised full cooperation and any help required from Israel.Also Read: What we know so far about the blast near Israeli embassyReuters quoted an unnamed Israeli official as saying that although there were no casualties, “India and all elements in Israel regard the explosion as a terrorist incident".Delhi Police initially indicated the blast could be mischief. “Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation,” a police statement said minutes after the explosion at 5.05 pm on APJ Abdul Kalam Road, often referred to by its previous name Aurangzeb Road.Quoting a police officer, news agency ANI said the explosive device could have been dropped in a flower pot on the pavement close to the embassy from a moving car.A senior home ministry official said authorities hadn’t ruled out anything, including a terror attack or mischief.“...considering the blast has taken place in the VVIP (high security) zone, all agencies are coordinating to probe the incident,” said an officer.Union home minister Amit Shah and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval were briefed about the incident.The last attack on an Israeli diplomat in the Indian capital was in February 2012, when a bomb, placed on diplomat Tal Yehoshua Koren’s car, went off when she was on her way to pick up her children from school. She sustained injuries in the attack.The explosive device in that attack was described by the police as a sticky bomb that was attached to the car using a magnet, allegedly by suspects travelling on a motorcycle.Delhi Police, which had filed charges in this case, had claimed to have identified four Iranians in the plot. A probe team was sent to Tehran for investigations but could not make headway in this case.Only one person, an Indian journalist, was arrested for helping the Iranian nationals and was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-take-it-seriously-jaishankar-tells-israel-after-blast-near-embassy-in-delhi-101611933121390.html
29-01-2021||India||Goa govt told to recover illegal luxury tax exemptions given to 7 hotels||The Goa government has granted luxury tax exemptions to seven hoteliers to the tune of ₹1.45 crore despite them being “ineligible” for the same, said the Comptroller and Auditor General, recommending that the state recover the difference.In its report tabled before the Goa assembly, the CAG found that seven hotels were granted exemptions in luxury tax between December 2017 and November 2018, resulting in a short levy of luxury tax of ₹1.45 crore by irregular grant of exemptions.The government has been granting exemptions in luxury tax for luxuries provided in a hotel during the months from June to September every year since April 2013. The exemptions are granted provided the hotelier holds a valid registration certificate, files the returns within the specified time, pays all taxes within the time prescribed under the Act and should not have tax arrears or other dues.“Scrutiny of assessment records of two luxury tax offices revealed that though the payment of tax was delayed by five hoteliers and there were undisputed arrears in respect of two hoteliers [the] Luxury Tax Offices allowed the luxury tax exemptions while finalising the assessments. This resulted in a short levy of luxury tax of ₹1.45 crore by irregular grant of exemption as detailed below,” the CAG said in its report.“We observed that the Luxury Tax Office Panaji while finalising the assessments of five hoteliers levied interest for delays in payment of taxes. It indicated that the office was aware of facts that the tax payment was delayed by these hoteliers despite that the exemption was allowed,” the CAG report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-told-to-recover-illegal-luxury-tax-exemptions-given-to-7-hotels-101611933363484.html
29-01-2021||India||'Assured Israeli FM of full protection for diplomats': S Jaishankar after blast||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday he spoke to Israel's foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi and assured him that protection would be provided to the staff and diplomats after a small blast took place outside the Israeli embassy in Delhi. India was taking the matter very seriously, he said, and an investigation into it was underway. Spoke just now to Israeli FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits."Spoke just now to Israeli FM Gabi Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits," Jaishankar tweeted.The blast, which took place in the national capital around 5.05pm, shattered the windscreens of three cars in the area. According to the Delhi Police, no injuries or damages to property were reported. "A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05pm near 5, APJ Abdul Kalam Road near Jindal House. No injury to any person and nor any damage to property was witnessed except window panes of three vehicles parked nearby. Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation," Delhi Police said in a statement.Ashkenazi also promised full cooperation from Israel's side. "Indian FM assured me that Indian authorities are committed to the security of all Israeli diplomatic staff and will continue to act resolutely to locate all those involved in the explosion. I thanked him and promised full cooperation and any help required from Israel," he said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assured-israeli-fm-of-full-protection-for-diplomats-s-jaishankar-after-attack-101611933174315.html
29-01-2021||India||POCSO Act never intended to treat adolescent boy as offender: Madras HC||The Madras High Court has said the POCSO Act does not intend to punish an adolescent boy for entering into a relationship with a minor girl and batted for parental and societal support for the couple "in the grips of biological changes." Justice N Anand Venkatesh observed that while the Act was brought in to protect children from sexual offences, a large array of cases were arising on the basis of complaints being filed by families of adolescents and teenagers involved in romantic relationships. Therefore,the "legislature has to keep pace with changing societal needs" and bring amendments to the Act, he said while quashing criminal proceedings against an autorickshaw driver facing charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for marrying a minor. "The scheme of the Act clearly shows that it did not intend to bring within its scope or ambit, cases of the nature where adolescents or teenagers involved in romantic relationships are concerned," the judge said. He observed that the provisions of the POCSO Act, as it stands today, would surely make the acts of the boy an offence due to its stringent nature. Punishing an adolescent boy who enters into a relationship with a minor girl by treating him as an offender was never the objective of the POCSO Act, he said. "An adolescent boy and girl who are in the grips of their hormones and biological changes and whose decision-making ability is yet to fully develop, should essentially receive the support and guidance of their parents and the society at large," the court observed. An adolescent boy caught in a situation like this will surely have no defense if the criminal case is taken to its logical end, the judge added. Referring to the victim girl's earlier statement, he said she "has clearly stated that she was the one who insisted that the 2nd Respondent take her away from her home and marry her due to the pressure exerted by her parents." With the parents of the girl or the family subsequently lodging a complaint, the accused is booked under the POCSO Act, the judge said. Invariably the boy gets arrested and thereafter, "his youthful life comes to a grinding halt." Such a person who is sent to prison in a case of this nature will be persecuted throughout his life. "It is high time that the legislature takes into consideration cases of this nature involving adolescents involved in relationships and swiftly bring in necessary amendments under the Act." The judge said the legislature has to keep pace with the changing societal needs and bring about necessary changes in law and more particularly, in a stringent law like the POCSO Act. He pointed out at the de facto complainant, mother of the girl, as well as the latter jointly seeking for quashing of the proceedings against the man, also facing charges of kidnap under the IPC, was "peculiar." The mother had insisted that "let bygones be bygones" and had wanted her daughter to settle down, the court observed. The judge said there can be no second thought as to the seriousness of offences under the POCSO Act and the object it seeks to achieve. However, it was also imperative for the Court to draw the thin line that demarcates the nature of acts that should not be made to fall within the scope of the Act. "...for such is the severity of the sentences provided under the Act, justifiably so, that if acted upon hastily or irresponsibly, it could lead to irreparable damage to the reputation and livelihood of youth whose actions would have been only innocuous," he said. "What came to be a law to protect and render justice to victims and survivors of child abuse, can become a tool in the hands of certain sections of the society to abuse the process of law," the judge noted. Referring to studies, he said adolescence is associated with many psychosocial and developmental challenges, including the processing of intense emotions and "first loves". Regarding the present case, the court said "the offences are purely individual/personal in nature" and involved the persons concerned and their families only. The court said the second respondent was working as an autorickshaw driver to eke out his livelihood and quashing the proceedings would not affect any overriding public interest in the case. It would in fact pave the way for both of them to settle down in their life and look for better future prospects, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pocso-act-never-intended-to-treat-adolescent-boy-as-offender-madras-hc-101611931842909.html
29-01-2021||India||Policeman stabbed, tear gas fired: What we know so far about Singhu border chaos||Singhu border, the nerve-point of farmers' protest, became a flashpoint as farmers and local residents clashed over the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws on Friday, days after the violence in the Capital on Republic Day. While the farmers insist on camping at Delhi's northern border seeking the repeal of the three contentious farm laws, local residents have lodged their discontentment over the clogging of roads in the area due to the farmers' protest.The group claiming to be locals demanded that the farmers vacate the Singhu border, one of the main protest sites around the national capital, alleging that they had "insulted" the national flag during their tractor parade on Republic Day, reported news agency PTI.Here is what you need to know about Friday's development at the Singhu border:Why are the farmers protesting:The protests, the longest such demonstration in decades of Independent India, entered their third month and show no signs of abating as the farmers have refused to halt them. They are protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September which essentially change the way farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has tried to allay these fears, saying that it is ready to discuss changes to the laws and has made it clear that it won’t scrap them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policeman-stabbed-tear-gas-fired-what-we-know-so-far-about-singhu-border-chaos-101611921802686.html
29-01-2021||India||Telangana BJP lawmaker gets 1-year jail term for assaulting policeman||Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker of Telangana assembly T Raja Singh was on Friday sentenced to one-year imprisonment by a special sessions court in Hyderabad, which has been hearing cases against elected representatives, in a case dating back to 2015.The court also imposed a fine of ₹5,000 on Raja Singh, who represents Goshamahal assembly constituency in Hyderabad. However, the court granted bail to the MLA and suspended the sentence for one month to enable him to appeal in the state high court.The case pertains to assault on a police official on duty at Bollarum police station in December 2015 when they took him into preventive custody. Singh was also charged with threatening and intimidating the police officialswhen he was taken into custody.According to the BJP legislator, he was going to Osmania University in December 2015 after coming to know that some students, under the umbrella of Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the university, were organising a beef festival.“I was going to the university along with my party activists to stop the beef festival. On our way, the police arrested us and took us to Bollarum police station. The police resorted to lathi-charge on my followers and I protested it,” he said.The MLA further said he had argued with the inspector that he was also a Hindu and it was his duty to save Gau Mata. “Later, he filed an FIR against me,” Singh said, adding that he was prepared to face even a death sentence for the protection of cows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-lawmaker-gets-1-year-jail-term-for-assaulting-policeman-101611930273484.html
29-01-2021||India||Israeli embassy blast in Delhi: What we know so far||An explosion near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi was reported on Friday evening, prompting authorities to scale up the security and sound a high alert in the national capital.The blast caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" shattered the windscreens of three cars parked in the area, Delhi Police officials said adding that there were no injuries.Israel said it is treating the blast as a terrorist incident. "Israel is treating a small bomb blast near the Israeli embassy in Delhi today, which did not injure anyone, as a terrorist incident," news agency Reuters quoted an Israeli official as saying.Also read: Blast reported near Israel embassy in Delhi, car windscreens damagedHere is what we know so far about the blast near the Israeli embassy:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israeli-embassy-blast-in-delhi-what-we-know-so-far-101611927398816.html
29-01-2021||India||Airports, govt buildings on alert after blast near Israeli embassy: CISF||An alert has been issued at all airports, important installations and government buildings after a small blast was reported near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) said adding enhanced security measures have been put in place.The blast near the Israeli embassy was caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" Delhi Police spokesperson said, adding that there were no injuries. The explosion, however, damaged the window panes of three nearby parked cars, the spokesperson said in a statement. "A very-low intensity improvised device went off at 5.05pm near 5 APJ Abdul Kalam Road near Jindal House. No injury to any person is there and nor any damage to property was witnessed except window panes of three vehicles parked nearby. Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation," the statement said.Also read | Israel treating bomb blast near its embassy in Delhi as terrorism, official saysDelhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and chief of the Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar have briefed Union home minister Amit Shah about the blast, officials said. They added that National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was also informed about the blast shortly after the incident and the National Investigative Agency (NIA) has also been roped in."Nothing is being ruled out as of now whether it is a terror attack or not. It could be mischief also by some elements, but considering the blast has taken place in the VVIP Zone, all agencies are coordinating to probe the incident," an officer, who did not want to be named, said.The blast came on the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992.An explosion under an Israeli embassy car in New Delhi had injured four people, including the wife of a diplomat, in 2012. Police had said then two men on a motorcycle had planted the explosive device under the car when it stopped at a traffic signal. Israel accused Iran of involvement in that blast.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airports-govt-buildings-on-alert-after-blast-near-israeli-embassy-cisf-101611929356277.html
29-01-2021||India||Randeep Hothi: The Indian American who sued Elon Musk||In a surprising reversal of fortune, millionaire Elon Musk failed to stop a defamation lawsuit filed by Indian American graduate student Randeep Hothi. Hothi is a stringent critic of Musk and Tesla and was under the billionaire's scanner for two incidents -- a confrontation with a security guard at the company's Fremont plant and for posting photos of a Tesla car that Hothi claimed was following him around California.Who is Randeep Hothi?Randeep Hothi is a doctoral candidate in Asian languages and cultures at the University of Michigan and a frequent critic of Tesla. Hothi is interested in Sikh Studies, specifically on how the Sikh diaspora interacts with the world around them. He describes himself as “Investigating/Reporting on corporate fraud. Currently focusing on Tesla. DMs open for fellow travelers, reporters, whistleblowers, etc” on his Twitter profile.Hothi is a 2009 graduate of t University of California, Berkeley, and his parents live in Fremont, where Tesla also has its auto plant. Hothi is part of a global group that has vehemently criticised Elon Musk and Tesla, this often leads to Twitter wars and online trolling. This group made up of ex-Tesla employees, students like Hothi, and other professionals tag themselves with the hashtag $TSLAQ.Members of the TSLAQ tweet from anonymous accounts under pseudonyms. Hothi tweeted under the alias ‘@skabooshka’, but in 2018 his and his brother’s identities were revealed online by another anonymous account, which since the revelation hasn’t tweeted anything. His brother worked at Tesla’s rival firm Volkswagen reported Bloomberg but is no longer associated with them.In 2019, Musk tweeted to Volkswagen about Hothi’s brother’s connection to the company, inviting speculation and racist attacks against Hothi and his family. After Musk's tweet to Volkswagen about Hothi’s brother’s connections to the company, Hothi too took to Twitter. “This is my promise. Tesla is a zero. @Elon Musk will go to prison,” he tweeted on April 20, 2019.What does this win mean for Hothi?Hothi hadn’t tweeted about Tesla since April last year due to the litigation. “The pendency of Tesla’s lawsuit against me makes it prudent for me to say little on Twitter at present,” he tweeted to his followers. After Judge Julia Spain’s judgment upheld his defamation suit against Musk, a possible return to Twitter might be on the cards for Hothi. He has demystified a lot of Tesla’s claims. He once flew a drone by a Tesla assembly tent to show that cars were being assembled inside by hand and not through automation as Musk had originally said. For Hothi and many others in the TSLAQ alliance, who have been crowdfunding to cover his legal fees, this win is no small suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/randeep-hothi-the-indian-american-who-sued-elon-musk-101611929119927.html
29-01-2021||India||Customs to question Kerala Speaker for alleged role in dollar smuggling case||The Customs department will question Kerala legislative assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan next week in connection with his alleged role in dollar smuggling and his investment in some educational institutions in a West Asian country, a senior customs official said.Initially, he will be sent a questionnaire and later he will be summoned based on his replies. He said Customs had earlier sought legal opinion on this and got the go-ahead and the investigation was at a crucial stage. In January first week, his personal secretary K Ayyappan was questioned by the Customs for more than 10 hours.The alleged dollar smuggling and other irregularities came to light when central agencies were probing the gold smuggling case through the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital in July last year.But the Speaker said in Malappuram that he hadn’t got any information in this regard and he will be happy to share any information with any agency. He said he was least bothered as his hands were clean. Last week the Customs had also questioned two of his friends.After the gold smuggling case surfaced, there were reports allegedly linking the main accused Swapna Suresh with the Speaker. He later admitted that he knew Suresh as an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate and attended some functions where she had invited him. But, the opposition Congress and BJP alleged that it was more than an ‘official relationship’ and that Sreeramakrishnan had travelled with Suresh several times to certain West Asian countries.They also alleged the accused smuggled US dollars to Gulf countries using Sreeramakrishnan’s green channel access. They also alleged that a major portion of the smuggled US dollars was commission obtained from various government projects including the Life Mission Project. The Speaker denied these allegations and said he was ready for any probe. There are reports that in her statement before a magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC she reportedly took his name and claimed that he had invested in an educational group in the UAE.When the Customs busted the gold smuggling racket, Suresh was working as a consultant with the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. Before this, she worked at the UAE consulate at the state capital in the public relations department. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, her degree was also found to be fake. The state police had registered a case against her for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-to-question-kerala-speaker-for-alleged-role-in-dollar-smuggling-case-101611925419017.html
29-01-2021||India||Listen carefully, farmers won't stop protests: Yogendra Yadav||Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj Party leader who has been supporting the protests against the three farm laws, said on Friday farmers will continue holding their stance against the legislation and will not turn away. "Modi ji and Yogi ji and all others must listen carefully. Farmers will not go back from this movement, humiliated and defamed,'' Yadav said during a farmers' rally at Delhi's border with Uttar Pradesh.Earlier in the day, clashes broke out at the Singhu border between the farmers and counter-protesters who wanted the agitators to vacate the area. Both the groups pelted stones prompting the police to fire multiple tear gas shells in order to control the situation at the protest site. At least one local resident and a police personnel were injured during the clashes.Also Read | Tense situation at protest sites, police fire tear gas shells at SinghuFarmers have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the new agricultural laws that the opposition parties and farmers say have been passed without any deliberations.Farmers from various states have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, that they deem only benefit the market capitalists.Yadav is among the more than 40 people who have been named in the first information reports (FIRs) filed by the Delhi Police after the January 26 violence in the Capital. The police asked these farmers' leaders, including Yadav, Rakesh Tikait and Balbeer Singh Rajewal to submit their response within three days, explaining why legal action should not be taken against them as they did not follow the conditions set for the tractor rally.Also Read | 5,000 farmers gather to support Rakesh Tikait after he wept on national TVThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting against the Centre's three farm laws at various border points of Delhi, said it will not be intimidated by the notices. It also alleged that the government is trying to put an end to the farmers' protests by blaming it for the violence during the January 26 tractor rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-carefully-farmers-won-t-stop-protests-yogendra-yadav-101611925399332.html
29-01-2021||India||Beating Retreat 2021: Ceremony marks end of Republic Day celebrations||The Beating Retreat ceremony which marks the culmination of the four-day long Republic Day celebrations, took place on Friday at the historic Vijay Chowk with as many as 26 performances by the bands by the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF).The ceremony was graced by President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Flags were lowered at dusk and Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block and the Parliament House were lit up simultaneously marking the occasion.For the very first time, a special new composition Swarnim Vijay was played which was composed to commemorate the 50 years of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. The composition was performed by Lieutenant Colonel Vimal Joshi and Havildar Jiwan Rasailycal.Apart from the Swarnim Vijay, there were several new compositions like the air force band's Tiranga Senani and Nida Yodha, the naval band's Bharat Vandana and the army military band's Garud Prahar and Sambodhan Eco. The mass formation of bands also played Bharat Ke Jawan. The ceremony ended with the composition ''Sare Jahan Se Accha''. Prime minister Modi also walked around Vijay Chowk to greet the crowd.A total of 60 buglers, 17 trumpet players and 60 drummers of the army, navy and air force bands along with the mass formation of bands of CAPF and the Delhi Police took part in the Beating Retreat. Twenty bands each of the Punjab Regiment and the Rajputana Rifles also participated in the ceremony along with 25 bands of the Rajput Regiment, 19 bands of Bihar Regiment and at least seven bands of the Gorkha Regiment.The Beating Retreat is a centuries-old military tradition that dates back to the days when troops used to disengage from fighting at sunset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beating-retreat-2021-ceremony-marks-end-of-republic-day-celebrations-101611924334502.html
29-01-2021||India||Jharkhand High Court defers bail of Lalu Prasad Yadav in fodder scam case||Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred bail of former Chief Minister of Bihar and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Chief Lalu Prasad Yadav after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) asked for more time, in connection with the fodder scam case.RJD chief's lawyer Prabhat Kumar said, "Jharkhand High Court defers bail of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav after CBI asked for more time, in connection with Fodder scam case. The matter will be next heard on February 5."Ailing Lalu Prasad was brought to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi from Ranchi on January 23.The State Medical Board in Jharkhand had referred the RJD chief, who was admitted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, for treatment to AIIMS.Yadav, who had been in prison since December 2017, was sentenced to seven years imprisonment in 2018 under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and seven years under the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the fodder scam case.The case pertains to the fraudulent withdrawal of ₹3.5 crores from the Dumka treasury by Animal Husbandry Department officials between 1991 and 1996 when Yadav served as the State's Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-high-court-defers-bail-of-lalu-prasad-yadav-in-fodder-scam-case-101611924698745.html
29-01-2021||India||Assam Rifles to relocate bases from Aizawl, says Mizoram CM Zoramthanga||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said that Assam Rifles bases in Aizawl would soon be shifted to the outskirts of the city.Kicking off the campaign for Aizawl Municipal Corporation polls at Ramhlun on Thursday, Zoramthanga said Assam Rifles have been asked to relocate their headquarters from the heart of the city to Zokhawsang within February."Officials of Assam Rifles are also willing to shift their battalion headquarters to Zokhawsang and they are preparing for it," he said.Some of the officials have already shifted to Zokhawsang, around 15 km from the city, he added.The chief minister said all other forces will also be shifted to other places.Zoramthanga said that he approached both prime minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah over the matter.There are three Assam Rifles battalions in Mizoram.First Assam Rifles is based in Lunglei, Eight in Serchhip and 46 Assam Rifles is camped in Aizawl's Zodin and Khatla areas.In February 2019, the Union Home Ministry had directed Assam Rifles to shift their bases from Aizawl to Zokhawsang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-to-relocate-bases-from-aizawl-says-mizoram-cm-zoramthanga-101611922765916.html
29-01-2021||India||Blast reported near Israel embassy in Delhi, car windscreens damaged||A blast caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday shattered the windscreens of three cars in the area, Delhi Police said adding that there were no injuries."A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05pm near 5, APJ Abdul Kalam Road near Jindal House. No injury to any person and nor any damage to property was witnessed except window panes of three vehicles parked nearby. Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation," Delhi Police said in a statement.Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and chief of the Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar have briefed Union home minister Amit Shah about the blast, officials said. The investigation is being monitored, they added. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was also informed about the blast shortly after the incident and the National Investigative Agency (NIA) has also been roped in, officials said."Nothing is being ruled out as of now whether it is a terror attack or not. It could be mischief also by some elements, but considering the blast has taken place in the VVIP Zone, all agencies are coordinating to probe the incident," said an officer, requesting anonymity.The blast came on the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992.Close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras on Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road are being checked to ascertain the sequence of events, officials said. Forensic experts of Delhi Police are at the spot to lift the samples of the explosive.According to preliminary reports, the Police Control Room was informed of a "bomb blast" in the area and senior officials, including deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pramod Kushwah, rushed to the spot, officials said.This is the second explosion in eight years near the Israel embassy. A similar explosion was reported on February 13, 2012, when a sticky bomb was placed on the car of an Israeli diplomat, Tal Yehoshua Koren. She had sustained injuries in the blast.While the only person arrested in the case - a journalist - is out on the bail, the accused bombers in that attack are yet to be caught. The special cell of the Delhi Police had visited Tehran to investigate the February 2012 terror attack but there has been no headway in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-reported-near-israeli-embassy-in-delhi-say-police-101611923479697.html
29-01-2021||India||'Repeal farm laws, put them in a wastebasket': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reiterated his demand that the three farm laws be repealed and extended his support to the farmers protesting in the national capital."We all should understand the three farm laws. The first law destroys the mandi system, the second law allows unlimited storage of grains and other material and will make it impossible to negotiate prices and the third one says that if the farmers have grievances they can't go to court," Rahul Gandhi said.Accusing the government of destroying the livelihoods of the farmers, he said that it is obvious why the farmers are agitating. "The laws are going to give the middle class a shock because the prices of food are going to go up," he said, adding that what is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal as they are being beaten up, threatened and discredited by the government.The Congress leader further said that the only way forward was to repeal the laws. "The only solution is to repeal the laws and put them in a wastepaper basket. The government must not think that the farmers are going to go home because they are not. This situation is going to spread. We need a conversation with the farmers and we need a solution," he said.  Responding to a question about the incident that took place on January 26, Rahul Gandhi said we should think about how the farmers were able to reach the Red Fort.As part of their tractor rally organised in protest against the farm laws, hundreds of farmers reached the ramparts of the Red Fort on Republic Day."Was it not the job of the home ministry to ensure that they didn't enter the fort? What was the reason behind allowing them inside the Red Fort? We should ask these questions to the home minister," he said.The leader also encouraged the farmers to carry on the agitation and assured them of his support. "Do not step back even one inch. Fight for your rights. Do not let these people steal away your future. We are with you," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-farm-laws-put-them-in-a-wastebasket-rahul-gandhi-101611921789329.html
29-01-2021||India||Telangana now has its own brand of drinking water, calls it Mission Bhagiratha||Branded drinking water bottles – be it Kinley or Bisleri or Bailey or Himalayan – are now passé at all official meetings in Telangana.For the past one week, the Telangana government has been using its own brand of drinking water, which is nothing but piped drinking water being supplied to every household in the state.The packaged drinking water under the brand name of “Mission Bhagiratha” has now been made compulsory in all government meetings. On Friday, state minister for Panchayat Raj Errabelli Dayakar Rao formally launched this new brand at an official programme in Palakurthy in Jangaon district.“This is not like any other brand of drinking water purified and packed in factories. This is the same water which everybody is getting through their drinking water pipeline. We are only promoting it as our own Telangana brand,” Dayakar Rao said.Mission Bhagiratha, a flagship programme of the Telangana government, is aimed at providing safe drinking water to every household. “We have achieved 100 per cent target of providing drinking water connections to all households in the state. It was acknowledged by Union minister for Jal Sakthi Gajendra Singh Shekhawat last week,” Mission Bhagiratha engineer-in-chief G Krupakar Reddy said.In a bid to encourage people to drink only tap water, instead of running after branded and packaged drinking water, the Telangana government has come up with this unique idea of creating its own brand and calling it “Mission Bhagiratha.”Reddy said his department has designed a unique bottle, which is different from other packaged drinking water brands, so that people could recognise it. The department doesn’t have a separate bottling unit, but it has procured PET (polyethylene terephthalate) bottles, lids and labels.“However, we are not going to sell our brand of drinking water in the market like any other brand. Our Mission Bhagiratha water bottles are supplied free of cost, in all government offices, from gram panchayats to the chief minister’s office and also at all public meetings,” he said.He said the intention of the government was not to make money out of this project, but to convey the message to the people that the drinking water being supplied to their homes through pipes was absolutely safe and pure. “If officials and leaders use the packaged Mission Bhagiratha water, it will give confidence to the people,” he said.Reddy said the drinking water being supplied under Mission Bhagiratha was totally tested in the laboratories before being released through pipes to the households in the city. “We have around 75 government labs across the state where chemists and microbiologists conduct regular testing of water samples, before it is released through pipelines,” he said.The official further said unlike other drinking water brands, which are processed through reverse osmosis (RO) plants, the Mission Bhagiratha brand of water is only ultra-violet light processed. “The RO plants take away all minerals, whereas UV-processed water just kills bacteria and retains essential minerals,” he said.What is more, most of the brands use PET bottles which have to be discarded after use as each of them weigh around 12 grams. However, bottles used in Mission Bhagiratha brand are reusable as they weigh 19 grams each and the water can be preserved up to one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-now-has-its-own-brand-of-drinking-water-calls-it-mission-bhagiratha-101611921497138.html
29-01-2021||India||83-year-old cave-dwelling seer donates ₹1 crore for Ram temple construction||An 83-year-old seer, who lives in a cave in Rishikesh, has donated ₹1 crore towards the construction of Ram mandir in Ayodhya.The donation was made to the Visva Hindu Parishad (VHP), which has been collecting money for the temple construction. It has amassed collected donations of about ₹5 crore in the state."I've been living in the cave for over half a century. As a seer, I live on donations from the devotees visiting the cave. When I came to know about the VHP campaign, I decided to donate the amount for Ram Mandir for which we all have been dreaming for long," said Swami Shankar Das while speaking to the media.The bank officials expressed surprise when the seer offered the cheque for ₹1 crore. Upon checking, they found that his account had the requisite balance. The officials then contacted the local RSS functionaries who reached the bank and helped Das donate the amount in the Ram Mandir Trust.Randeep Pokhriya, in-charge of VHP's Ram Mandir donation campaign in Uttarakhand, hailed Das's act and said, "More than collecting donations, the motive of the campaign is to generate a feeling of harmony and service among the Ram Bhakts like Das.""We have so far collected donations worth about ₹5 crore which is three times the target we had in mind. However, it is not about the amount collected but the number of people coming forward through their devotion for Lord Ram to help in building his temple in Ayodhya," said Pokhriya.He said they have been receiving donations from a cross section of society.A 10-year-old girl in Nainital donated ₹2,500 for the temple from savings in her piggy bank.The VHP had earlier said that they would visit 24 lakh families in 14,526 villages and 73 towns in Uttarakhand under the campaign to collect donations for Ram Temple.The Hindu body has formed various committees to look after the donations to be collected in the campaign. Under this, a team visiting a village would have to deposit the donation money collected to the specified bank account of VHP within 48 hours.It is providing coupons of ₹10, 100, 1000 and 2000 against the donations made of the same denomination. If the donor is willing to donate more than ₹2000 than it would provide him/her receipts for the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83yearold-cave-dwelling-seer-donates-rs-1-crore-for-ram-temple-construction-101611921704895.html
29-01-2021||India||'Over ₹230 cr collected as donations for Ram temple construction': Trust||Treasurer of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Swami Gobind Dev Giri has lauded the voluntary contribution for temple's construction made by people from all walks of the society. In Haridwar at Bharat Mata Temple, Swami Gobind Dev Giri said that till date, about ₹230 crores have been collected in this month under the voluntary contribution-donation drive carried out across the country for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya under Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan.“Mutual efforts have resulted in the success of this drive which means the contribution of maximum number of people will be in the grand temple being constructed at Shri Ram Janmasthan in Ayodhya. Ram temple is a symbol of expression and wishes of people of India for which voluntary contribution is being sought from people," said Giri.Citing the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Swami Gobind Dev said that after 500 years of struggle and wait, finally last year on August 5 the dream began to get realised with the Bhoomi Pujan at Shri Ramlalla Janmasthan.Also read: Police official stabbed at Delhi's Singhu border during farmers' protests"Temple construction is being done in three phases with the technical committee supervising the construction process with 10-feet digging work already been done. We shall also be bringing pilgrims and religious scholars from countries like Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and others so that they can visit Ayodhya and other religious-spiritual sites of the country," added Swami Gobind.Meanwhile, Akhadas, saints and locals from different sections of society are coming forward to lend their contribution to the drive. Shri Panchayati Akhada Shri Niranjani ₹21 lakh to Vishwa Hindu Parishad central secretary Ashok Tiwari which was handed by Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri, secretary of Niranjani Akhada and head of the Mata Mansa Devi Trust.The saints are openly contributing to the collection drive as the community was an integral part of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi movement.A donation of ₹lakh has been done by Nar Singh Dham Peeth pontiff Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Swami Ayodhyacharya. Bharat Mata Temple trust also donated ₹51,000 to Swami Govind Devi Giri while Garib Dasya Ashram spiritual saints Ravi Dev Shastri and Mahant Hariharanand Shastri donated ₹51,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-rs-230-cr-collected-as-donations-for-ram-temple-construction-trust-101611920661085.html
29-01-2021||India||Over 2.84 lakh vaccinated in Karnataka so far: State health minister||Karnataka has vaccinated over 2.84 lakh people since the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday.In a series of tweets, he said India's vaccination drive, the world's largest was also the fastest."The world's largest vaccination drive is now also the fastest vaccination drive. After the launch on 16 Jan, India has crossed 2 million inoculations in just 11 days," Sudhakar tweeted.The world's largest vaccination drive is now also the fastest vaccination drive. After the launch on 16 Jan, India has crossed 2 million inoculations in just 11 days. K'taka has vaccinated 2,84,385 health warriors till Thursday, with 18,230 inoculations in a single day yesterday. pic.twitter.com/o50ExyWhWrHe said that Karnataka had vaccinated 2,84,385 health warriors till Thursday, with 18,230 inoculations in a single day on Thursday.Hailing India's fight against coronavirus, he said the vaccine production capacity of India is the best asset that the world has today."I hope the world understands that it must be fully used: UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Under PM @narendramodi ji's leadership India is truly emerging as Vishwaguru," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-84-lakh-vaccinated-in-karnataka-so-far-state-health-minister-101611916376018.html
29-01-2021||India||Terrorist killed during ongoing joint operation of security forces at J-K's Awantipora||Three militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday, police said.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Mandoora in Tral area, following information about the presence of militants there, they said.The encounter broke out after militants opened fire at the security forces, who retaliated, police said.Three militants were killed in the swift retaliatory action by the security forces, they said, adding that the identity of the slain ultras was being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-during-ongoing-joint-operation-of-security-forces-at-j-k-s-awantipora-101611919573873.html
29-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: HAL to flaunt local aircraft at Aero India in ‘Aatmanirbhar’ formation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.HAL to flaunt local aircraft at Aero India in ‘Aatmanirbhar’ formationLocally produced aircraft and choppers will form part of the air display at the upcoming Aero India 2021, Asia’s largest air show, with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Friday announcing that its indigenous aircraft will fly in the “Aatmanirbhar formation” at the event. Read more6 of family crushed to death in auto-truck collision in TelanganaSix members of a family, including three women, were killed on the spot when the autorickshaw they were travelling in collided with a truck in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district on Friday, the police said. Read moreIndia took short term pain for long time gain: Chief economic adviserIndia's policy response to the coronavirus pandemic was guided by the realisation that GDP growth will come back but human lives won't, CEA, Krishnamurthy V Subramanian said on Friday. Read moreBJP wins Karnataka legislative council deputy chairmanship backed by JD(S)MK Pranesh from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday was elected as the deputy chairman of the Karnataka legislative council. Read moreKangana Ranaut to play Indira Gandhi, shares throwback pic from old shootKangana Ranaut has announced that she will play former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in an upcoming film. Read morePretty postcard from Goa: Mira Rajput is vacation fashion goals in Rs10k dressDuring her vacation in Goa, Mira Rajput shared some of the most gorgeous sartorial moments with picturesque backdrops on her social media. Read moreRare snowy owl spotting: Bird seen in New York's Central Park for first time since 1890Bird watchers in New York are rejoicing over the unusual sighting of a snowy owl at the Central Park. This is the first time the bird has visited the Park in over a century. Read moreWatch | ‘Witnessing assault on freedom of speech’: Kunal Kamra defends tweets in SC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hal-to-flaunt-local-aircraft-at-aero-india-in-aatmanirbhar-formation-and-all-the-latest-news-101611918304756.html
29-01-2021||India||India’s forces foiled all attempts to alter status quo on LAC: President Kovind||India’s armed forces responded with courage to “machinations” to disrupt peace along the Line of Actual Control that disregarded bilateral agreements and foiled all efforts to alter the status quo on the border, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Friday in a reference to the standoff with China. The President, who is also the supreme commander of the armed forces, during his address to a joint session of Parliament, specifically mentioned the clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley last June that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, and said the government is committed to safeguard the interests of the country. “During the Coronavirus pandemic, when the country was grappling with crisis, attempts were made to challenge the country’s capability at the border. Efforts were made to disrupt the peace at LAC in utter disregard of bilateral relations and agreements,” Kovind said. Also read | Full speech text: Prez Kovind’s address to Parliament as Budget session starts“However, our security forces not only responded to these machinations with promptitude, force and courage, but also foiled all attempts to change the status quo at the border.” The “restraint, valour and courage” of India’s soldiers “deserve utmost praise”, Kovind said, pointing out that 20 soldiers “made the supreme sacrifice and laid down their lives defending the country at Galwan Valley” in June 2020. “Every citizen is deeply indebted to these martyrs,” he added. Kovind said the government is “vigilant and fully committed to safeguard the interests of the country”, and additional forces have been deployed at the LAC to protect India’s sovereignty. The President’s remarks came a day after external affairs minister S Jaishankar outlined eight principles, including adhering to agreements on the border issue and the unacceptability of any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo at the LAC, to repair India-China ties that were “profoundly disturbed” by the events in Ladakh sector last year. Jaishankar also referred to the sudden amassing of Chinese troops on the LAC last year in violation of bilateral agreements and Beijing’s failure to provide a credible explanation for the change in its stance. China’s foreign ministry responded to the foreign minister’s remarks on Friday by saying that border issues should not be linked to bilateral ties. “This is an important experience in the continuous development of bilateral relations over the past years,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “It is hoped that India and China will meet each other halfway, properly manage differences, promote pragmatic cooperation, and push bilateral relations back on track,” Zhao added. Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the harsh winter along the LAC in Ladakh sector after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks failed to lead to a breakthrough in disengagement. A clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim sector on January 20, which resulted in injuries on both sides, has added to concerns about possible expansion of the dragging standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-forces-foiled-all-attempts-to-alter-status-quo-on-lac-president-kovind-101611918978075.html
29-01-2021||India||Come forward: Delhi Police appeal for information on Jan 26 violence||Delhi Police have urged people and media personnel to share footage or record their statements if they happened to witness the violence on Tuesday when thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with security personnel during the tractor rally called by farmers' unions against the three farm laws on the occasion of Republic Day. Individuals with information or evidence have been asked to come forward and get their statements recorded or hand over the footage from the violence.“All members of the public including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incidents or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or cameras, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/ footages/ pictures in their possession at Room Number 215, second floor, old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO, IP Estate, New Delhi during office hours on any working day,” the appeal issued by BK Singh, the joint commissioner of the Crime Branch of Delhi Police, said.Delhi Police have registered a case under section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the January 26 violence at Red Fort, and the matter is currently under investigation. Actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana have been named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the Red Fort incident.Anybody in possession of any evidence has been asked to contact Delhi Police on call or send details on their official email ID. Police have assured that the identity of the witness will be kept a secret.Farmers had clashed with the police at many points in the national capital and in the ensuing violence, one protester died after his tractor overturned. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the 17th-century monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the Prime Minister unfurls the national flag on Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-forward-delhi-police-appeal-for-information-on-jan-26-violence-101611918260994.html
29-01-2021||India||Barmer man’s arrest in Pakistan brings focus on locals languishing in Pak jails||The recent incident of a Barmer youth, Gemararam’s arrest in Pakistan after he crossed the international border over a trivial family dispute, has brought the focus back on four locals perishing in Pak jails for more than three decades.Bhuvnesh Jain, director at Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan in Jaipur and the convener of Thar Jagruk Manch, has raised the issue of Barmer residents languishing in Pak jails, in a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, foreign minister S Jaishankar and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The letter requests the governments to ensure the safe return of Gemararam, the last person from the district to cross over to Pakistan, and take up the issue of the four remaining residents stranded in Pakistan for nearly three decades.19-year-old Gemararam Meghwal, resident of a Barmer village, had crossed the international border on November 4 last year and is now stranded in Pakistan. Pakistan rangers have confirmed to the Border Security Force (BSF) that Gemararam is in the custody of Sindh police. Though efforts are on for his return, however, when he will be allowed to return, is not yet clear.Jain’s letter says Bhagu Singh of Gohad Ka Tala, Teelaram of Bheelon ka Tala and Sahuram of Sarupe ka Tala villages of Chohtan block in Barmer and one Jamalddin from Ramgarh village in Jaisalmer are “missing” since the 1980s and are believed to have crossed over to Pakistan by mistake while grazing cattle.At that time, there was no fencing at this section of the Indo-Pak border, the letter says. The number of such missing people was earlier 10 but six of them were released by Pakistan in 2010.A survey in villages bordering Pakistan, conducted in Barmer and Jaisalmer in 1996, by social activist Bhuvnesh Jain, gathered details about ‘missing’ residents believed to have strayed into Pakistan.Later, Jain’s RTI applications revealed that about ten people from Barmer and Jaisalmer were lodged in Pakistani jails. Jain launched a movement for the release of these prisoners and his efforts resulted in freedom for six persons in 2010.However, there is no clue about the whereabouts of Bhagu Singh, Teelaram, Sahu Ram and Jamaluddin. Their families claimed that they initially received letters by the missing members, written from inside Pakistani jails. Bhagu Singh’s family claims to have received his last letter in 2011, showing his presence in Kot Lakhpat jail in Karachi.“Government should take up the case of Gemararam and others on humanitarian grounds. Bhagu Singh, Teelaram, Sahuram and Jamalddin have lost their whole lives while perishing in Pak jails, it should not be repeated in Gemararam’s case, Jain pleaded in his letter.”Also Read: United States 'outraged' as Pak court upholds acquittal in Daniel Pearl murderRevenue minister Harish Choudhary told HT that he had raised the issue of these men perishing in Pak jails on several occasions in the Parliament.Choudhary said his continuous efforts had resulted in the release of six prisoners and he had himself welcomed their return at the Wagah border."In the recent episode of Gemararam, his family members met me for his release. I will write to the Central government to take up this issue. I will also request the government to take up the issue of the rest of the Barmer men, perishing in Pak jails since decades,” Choudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barmer-man-s-arrest-in-pakistan-brings-focus-on-locals-languishing-in-pak-jails-101611916815479.html
29-01-2021||India||6 of family crushed to death in auto-truck collision in Telangana||Six members of a family, including three women, were killed on the spot when the autorickshaw they were travelling in collided with a truck in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district on Friday, the police said.The incident happened at Marrimitta village of Gudur block at around 11 am, when the victims, belonging to Errakunta hamlet, were travelling from their village in an autorickshaw to Narsampet for shopping to purchase clothes for a wedding in their family, Gudur inspector of police Ch Raji Reddy said.As they reached Marrimitta, a few kilometres away from their village, a truck coming from the opposite direction at a high speed collided with the autorickshaw. “The impact of the collision was so intense that the autorickshaw came under the wheels of the truck and all the passengers, including the driver, were crushed to death on the spot,” the inspector said.The deceased included 20-year-old Prameela, for whose marriage the family members were going to Narasampet for shopping. The others who were killed in the accident were identified as: the bride’s mother Kalyani, elder brother Pradeep, uncle Prasad, cousin Divya and auto driver Ramu (who is also related to the family). The age of the victims is yet to be ascertained, the police said.Soon after receiving the information, the police rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to the Mahabubabad hospital for post mortem. The driver of the truck is absconding.Telangana chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao expressed shock over the death of six persons in the accident. He called up the district officials and enquired about the incident. He conveyed condolences to members of the bereaved families, an official release from the CMO said.State panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and tribal welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod also expressed their condolences to the families of the accident victims and assured them all possible help from the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-of-family-crushed-to-death-in-auto-truck-collision-in-telangana-101611916935237.html
29-01-2021||India||Mumbai locals: List of restrictions one must know before boarding train from February 1||The Uddhav Thackeray government has decided to make Mumbai's lifeline local trains accessible for the general public from February. The Mumbai suburban trains have been running on track since June last year after its operations were stopped due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. However, the initial services of the trains were only for essential workers. From February 1, the services will be open for all, but it won't be the same as it was before March 2020. Several time restrictions will be imposed to manage the crowd.📣 Railways to run 204 additional suburban services in Mumbai from 29th January. With this, around 95% of the total suburban services will be restored.Passengers, who are not allowed to travel yet, may refrain from rushing to the stations. pic.twitter.com/oh5QVnWo8A1. The general public is allowed to travel through the Mumbai locals only in three time slots.2. General public will be allowed from the start of the first local till 7am, then from 12pm till 4pm, and after 9pm till the last time of the service.3. During the rush hours from 7am to 12pm and 4pm to 9pm, the services of local trains will only be available for essential workers.4. The state government has also asked offices to schedule staggered working hours to make services available for the staff as well as to avoid overcrowding.Also Read | Mumbai locals open for all from February 1 with timing restrictions5. The shops and restaurants in Mumbai have also been allowed to operate from 11 pm to 1am, however with a limit of 30 per cent on the staff.6. The authorities have also requested the public to strictly stick to the SOPs pertaining to Covid-19 rules for travel.The Western railways have planned restoration of all train services from Friday with 1,367 trains running on tracks with Central Railways beginning its 1,685 trains today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-locals-list-of-restrictions-one-must-know-before-boarding-train-from-february-1-101611914655734.html
29-01-2021||India||Police official stabbed at Delhi's Singhu border during farmers' protests||A police official was stabbed during the ongoing farmers' agitation at Delhi's Singhu border on Friday amid simmering tension between protesters and local residents. The Delhi Police station house officer (SHO) of Alipur Pradeep Paliwal was stabbed during the stone-pelting which ensued between the farmers and locals in the area, who have asked the protesters to vacate the premises. At least two people, including a police official, were injured in the violence.The Delhi Police also had to fire multiple rounds of tear gas shells in a bid to stop the two groups from turning violent. The situation at Singhu border remained tense even after the stone-pelting stopped.Also read: Tense situation at protest sites, police fire tear gas shells at SinghuFarmers have been protesting for more than two months now at the borders surrounding the national capital, with the agitation taking a violent turn after the tractor parade called by the farmers' leaders on Tuesday - India's 72nd Republic Day.The tractor rally resulted in crippling chaos and violence in prominent areas of Delhi like Red Fort, ITO, intersection, Delhi-Meerut expressway, Nangloi, Sarai Kale Khan and pockets of central Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-official-stabbed-at-delhi-s-singhu-border-during-farmers-protests-101611912926327.html
29-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh seeks nod to procure additional 16 lakh metric ton rice for FCI||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Union minister Piyush Goyal, urging him to increase the rice procurement limit for Kharif marketing year 2020-21 under the central pool, from 24 lakh metric tons to 40 lakh metric tons, officials said on Friday.“In Kharif marketing year 2020-21, as on 28 January 2021, under the decentralized procurement scheme, 90 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has been procured from 20.29 lakh farmers on the support price and paddy purchase will be done by 31 January 2021,” a press release issued by Chhattisgarh government’s public relation department stated.The CM stated in his letter that the paddy was procured as per the MoU signed with the Central government’s food department, which had a provision for additional procurement for supplying to the Food Corporation of India (FCI).“There is a directive to supply rice stock to the Food Corporation of India in addition to the requirement of PDS of the state out of the paddy acquired under clause 18... There is a request to take 40 lakh metric tonnes under the Central Pool in the Food Corporation of India,” says the release, quoting from the letter.Baghel’s letter says that if the additional 40 lakh metric tonne of paddy is not allowed to be procured for the FCI, then it will cause a huge economic loss.“Then an economic loss of an amount of about ₹2500 crores is likely, which the state government will have to bear, making the situation very worrying,” the release says, quoting Baghel’s letter.The chief minister also stated that in the Kharif marketing year 2020-21, the state government has not announced any kind of bonus payment in addition to the minimum support price (MSP) directly and indirectly.Also Read: Chhattisgarh seeks names of authorised donation collectors from Ram Mandir trust“Earlier, the state government had sent information about the status of the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana in the state to the Food Department, Government of India. The Chhattisgarh government has not issued any press release regarding the bonus payment in addition to the minimum support price,” the letter says.The CM also highlights that the paddy procured by the state is kept open in the procurement and collection centers and it’s quality is likely to be affected if left in an open and uncontrolled environment for a long period, according to the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-seeks-nod-to-procure-additional-16-lakh-metric-ton-rice-for-fci-101611913540103.html
29-01-2021||India||HAL to flaunt local aircraft at Aero India in ‘Aatmanirbhar’ formation||Locally produced aircraft and choppers will form part of the air display at the upcoming Aero India 2021, Asia’s largest air show, with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Friday announcing that its indigenous aircraft will fly in the “Aatmanirbhar formation” at the event, showcasing India’s focus on becoming self-reliant in the defence sector. The air show will be staged at Yelahanka, outside Bengaluru, from February 3-5. “HAL will showcase its prowess in defence and aerospace centered on the theme ‘Conceive. Indigenise. Collaborate’,” the state-owned plane maker said in a statement. The “Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight” in the trainer segment will feature the light combat aircraft (LCA) trainer, Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) jets, the intermediate jet trainer, advanced Hawk Mk-132 aircraft (Hawk-i) and the Dornier-228 transport plane, the statement said. Also Read: PLA on the backfoot, wants to disengage: Northern Command GOC-in-CMore than 600 exhibitors are taking part in the biennial show, including 78 foreign exhibitors. A ₹48,000 crore deal for 83 advanced LCA aircraft for the Indian Air Force could be signed during the air show, officials familiar with the development said. “Sukhoi 30 MKI, advanced light helicopter (ALH) Dhruv, light combat helicopter (LCH), light utility helicopter (LUH) will also take part in the flying display,” HAL said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the government has taken various steps to boost self-reliance in the defence sector and India will be known as a producer of military equipment, instead of being a market. India has set a target of $5 billion worth of defence exports by 2024. On January 13, India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by the Prime Minister, approved a much-awaited ₹48,000 crore proposal to buy 83 advanced Tejas jets to bolster the IAF’s combat potential. The aircraft to be ordered include 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer aircraft. The deal could be signed at the show next week, the officials said. HAL is expected to provide the first Mk-1A deliveries to the IAF three years after the deal is signed, with all the aircraft likely to be delivered by 2028-29. The Mk-1A programme is expected to generate thousands of jobs and will involve the participation of more than 500 Indian companies. The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets will take the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by the IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far. The Mk-1A variant will come with digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammer pods, active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar, advanced beyond-visual-range (BVR) missiles and significantly improved maintainability. In August, the defence ministry gave its go-ahead for the purchase of military equipment worth ₹8,722 crore, including 106 locally made HTT-40 basic trainer aircraft for the IAF to provide a push to the government’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement). Basic trainers figure in the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hal-to-flaunt-local-aircraft-at-aero-india-in-aatmanirbhar-formation-101611913516777.html
29-01-2021||India||IndiGo: Flights between Kurnool and three cities start from March 28||IndiGo on Friday said it will start direct flights between Kurnool and Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam, and Chennai from March 28 onward under regional connectivity scheme Udan.As per the airline's press release, Sanjay Kumar, Chief Strategy and Revenue Officer, IndiGo said, "It will strategically enhance regional connectivity in southern India, as Kurnool will be one of three capitals in the state of Andhra Pradesh, as well as the node for the upcoming Hyderabad-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor."Flights on all three routes -- Bengaluru-Kurnool, Visakhapatnam-Kurnool and Chennai-Kurnool -- will operate four times per week under the regional connectivity scheme, the release noted.Also read| Air India begins weekly flight between Agra and GoaUnder the Udan scheme, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from Unserved and underserved airports, and keep airfares affordable.The release said Kurnool will be the judicial capital of Andhra Pradesh and its increased accessibility will not only help tourists but also government officials travelling to and from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-flights-between-kurnool-and-three-cities-start-from-march-28-101611910555345.html
29-01-2021||India||Farmers’ bodies continue protests in Rajasthan||Farmer organisations continued their protest at Shahjahanpur border in Rajasthan on Friday even as Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader and MP Hanuman Beniwal walked out of Lok Sabha demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws. The violence that followed the tractor rally on Republic Day in the national Capital has caused a rift among farmer organisations backing the protest. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat announced their split from Sanyukt Morcha but said they will continue their protest. “Those who instigated the farmers on Republic Day [during tractor rally] have not been arrested. This shows that the conspiracy was hatched by the government,” he alleged. Meanwhile, All India Kissan Sabha national vice-president Amra Ram said those who hoisted a flag at Lal Qila were not a part of the Sanyuk Morcha. “The government has adopted policy to suppress farmers – they disconnected water and electricity...We will observe a day-long fast on Saturday. Our dharna will continue till the demands are met,” he said. Also read | Rakesh Tikait’s appeal draws more protesters to Ghazipur, cops leave | 10 pointsMeanwhile, farmers led by Manudev Sinsini staged a protest, raised slogans and burnt an effigy of Government of India in Bharatpur. “Farmers will gather in the next three days, thereafter, they will move to Delhi on tractors on February 1 to join others. We are 65% of the population of the country, and are capable of teaching a lesson to the government,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said some people are trying to highjack the movement. The real farmers are not in support of the agitation, he said.He said when the laws were introduced in Parliament, Beniwal did not oppose them. It’s hard to understand why he is protesting now. “The Centre is ready and open to have dialogue with the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-bodies-continue-protests-in-rajasthan-101611912496957.html
29-01-2021||India||'We are with you, Rakesh ji', says Delhi CM Kejriwal amid unrest at Ghazipur protest site||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday extended his government's support to the farmers' protest and said the demands of the farmers are completely valid and it is wrong to discredit the farmers' protest, make false claims against the union leaders."Rakesh ji, we are fully with the farmers. Your demands are valid. It is utterly wrong to discredit the farmers' movement, call the peasants as traitors and make false cases against the peasant leaders who have been agitating peacefully for so many days," the chief minister said addressing Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union.राकेश जी, हम पूरी तरह से किसानों के साथ हैं। आपकी माँगे वाजिब हैं। किसानों के आंदोलन को बदनाम करना, किसानों को देशद्रोही कहना और इतने दिनों से शांति से आंदोलन कर रहे किसान नेताओं पर झूठे केस करना सरासर ग़लत है। https://t.co/B20DILWzy3The farmers' union leader had earlier tweeted regarding the Delhi government's support to the farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border by providing basic amenities of water and toilets.Earlier today, Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited the Ghazipur border protest site to check the arrangements of basic amenities like clean toilets and water for the farmers. Sisodia said that the chief minister sent him at the protest site to ensure that the farmers have received all the facilities. Around 10-12 water tankers will stay deployed at the site by the Delhi government.Tikait also responded to both Sisodia and Kejriwal by saying, "One andolankari will help another andolankari."Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Haryana khaps begin meetings to discuss plan of action after Tikait’s appealWater and electricity supply was disrupted at the protest site from Wednesday after the Republic day tractor rally by the farmers turned violent. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday evening had also deployed heavy security at the Ghazipur border protest site. Tikait was also served with a notice to vacate the spot.The farmers have been protesting since November against the three farm laws passed by the Parliament in September. Farmers from various northern states mostly from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-with-you-rakesh-ji-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal-amid-unrest-at-ghazipur-protest-site-101611909840871.html
29-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh seeks names of authorised donation collectors from Ram Mandir trust||Chhattisgarh chief secretary has written to the general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust to find out names of persons or institutions authorized in Chhattisgarh to collect donations for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, as per the official letter.In his letter, chief secretary Amitabh Jain also cited some incidents of some people and organisations seeking donation in Chhattisgarh for the construction of Ayodhay Ram Mandir, while issuing receipts deemed to be fake.“One such case was reported from Bilaspur, where a woman was booked by local police for collecting donations for Ram Mandir constructionthrough fake receipts,” the letter stated.Jain asked for details of entities authorised for collection of donation to stop “illegal collection” in Chhattisgarh.The deputy secretary of the Chhattisgarh unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and in-charge of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, Santosh Chaudhary said the state’s Congress government was trying to mislead people through the letter.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath calls for generous donations for Ayodhya Ram temple construction“The Congress is misleading and confusing the people to hamper the donation drive though this letter. Firstly, the woman in Bilaspur was booked on VHP’s complaint and secondly, Ram janmabhoomi trust has already made a committee for collecting donations in every state. In Chhattisgarh, total 56 members are part of that committee,” said Chaudhary.The construction of the Ram Mandir has begun in Ayodhya and it is likely to be will be completed in two to three years time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-seeks-names-of-authorised-donation-collectors-from-ram-mandir-trust-101611910200958.html
29-01-2021||India||Indian Americans household income average USD120K annually, surpassing other ethnic groups and white Americans:: Report||The household income of Indian American family on an average is USD 120,000 (over ₹87 lakhs) per annum, surpassing all ethnic groups and white Americans as well, according to a report.Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development in its report said data shows that some groups, like Indian households, are earning remarkably high incomes (USD 119,858), others, like Burmese households, are earning incomes (USD 45,348) comparable to those earned by Black (USD 41,511) and Latinx (USD 51,404) households.This pattern of vastly different economic statistics across AAPI (Asian American and Pacific Islanders) subgroups is similar across a variety of indicators, including poverty rate, homeownership rates, and rent burden, it said.The median household income for Asians (USD 87,194)-which is 1.2 - 2 times higher than Black (USD 41,511), Latinx (USD 51,404) and White (USD 67,937) households-suggests that Asian households are doing quite well, the coalition said.This pattern of vastly different economic statistics across AAPI subgroups is similar across a variety of indicators, including poverty rate, homeownership rates, and rent burden, which when put together correlate with the fact of extreme economic inequality within the larger category of AAPI-an unfortunate reality that is too often overlooked, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-americans-household-income-average-usd120k-annually-surpassing-other-ethnic-groups-and-white-americans-report-101611909594788.html
29-01-2021||India||Boycotting Prez’s address doesn’t mean insulting him: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||As 18 opposition parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Friday that the boycott did not mean insulting the President and added that the opposition leaders would debate when there is a motion of thanks and debate.The opposition parties on Thursday announced that they would boycott the address in order to express solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws. They also demanded an independent investigation into the Centre’s role into the Republic Day tractor parade violence.“Boycotting President’s Address doesn’t mean insulting him. We’re standing with farmers & demanding that farm laws be taken back. It’s our biggest reason behind boycotting the Address. We’ll debate when there is a Motion of Thanks and debate,” Chowdhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Boycotting President's Address doesn't mean insulting him. We're standing with farmers & demanding that farm laws be taken back. It's our biggest reason behind boycotting the Address. We'll debate when there is a Motion of Thanks and debate: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress MP pic.twitter.com/LSJ9KLEt04Backing the farm laws during his address to the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, President Kovind said that these were passed after extensive deliberations and over 10 crore small farmers started benefitting immediately. However, the implementation of the laws has been postponed by the Supreme Court and the Centre would respect and follow the apex court’s decision, he added.“These agricultural reforms started benefitting more than 10 crore small farmers immediately. Many political parties had given full support to these reforms from time to time only after realising these benefits to small farmers,” Kovind said adding that the Centre had decided to provide minimum support price (MSP) one-and-a-half times more than the cost, following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The President also pointed out that the Centre is providing new facilities and rights to the farmers under the new laws.Also Read| Tense situation at Singhu border farm protest site, police fire tear gas shellsMeanwhile, Union parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi appealed to the opposition parties that boycotted his speech to respect the President’s office. He urged them to discuss the address and any other problem they had inside Parliament rather than protesting outside. “Let the left parties march to the parliament in protest, but after the protest, they should come to the house,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boycotting-prez-s-address-doesn-t-mean-insulting-him-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-101611909763366.html
29-01-2021||India||Odisha Police: 894 missing children rescued in eight days||Odisha Crime Branch has rescued 894 children during an eight-day long special drive organised to trace missing children, said Odisha Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay on Thursday.Talking to ANI the DGP said, "The Odisha Crime branch conducted a special drive between January 18 and 25 to rescue missing children. During the drive, we traced and rescued 894 children in the state. We will continue this drive and will take action against the accused involved."He further informed that out of the 894 rescued children, 800 were girls and remaining 94 were boys.The rescue drive relates to 834 missing complaints lodged at various police stations across the state. Kendrapara district police rescued 127 children whereas Mayurbhanj and Balasore traced 111 and 88 children, respectively.The DGP also appreciated the good work of Superintendents of police of different districts.Good work https://t.co/VCGUBZbWdA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-894-missing-children-rescued-in-in-eight-days-101611903774065.html
29-01-2021||India||Indian Railways introduces smart windows, coupe doors in Howrah-Delhi Rajdhani||The Indian Railways has rolled out a new smart feature in Howrah-New Delhi Rajdhani Express. Passengers travelling in the first coach AC of the Rajdhani Express will now have access to smart switchable windows and coupe doors that will turn the transparent glass to opaque.The smart switch feature in the trains is another attempt of the Indian Railways to ramp up the passenger travel experience. The innovative feature is aimed at providing the passengers travelling in the first class coach with a sense of privacy through the opaque glass which also prevents UV radiation.Also Read | IRCTC to resume services for Tejas trains from February 14This feature will replace the curtains that the train's windows used to have earlier. The window glass can be turned 'on or off' to keep it transparent or opaque as per the passenger convenience.The union minister for railways Piyush Goyal tweeted a video introducing the new feature in the Rajdhani. He said that with the aim of promoting innovation and technology, railways is introducing smart switchable windows and coupe doors in the first AC coach of Howrah-New Delhi Rajdhani Express.Promoting Innovation and Technology: Railways is introducing smart switchable windows & coupe doors in 1st AC coach of Howrah-New Delhi Rajdhani Express. These will:🚄 Turn glass from transparent to opaque state by click of a switch🚄 Cut UV radiation🚄 Act as privacy glass pic.twitter.com/uwEA0BEAcWEarlier this week, the railways also announced the return of the e-catering services for the passengers travelling in the currently operational special trains. The services were curtailed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The catering arm of the railways, IRCTC, will resume e-catering from the first week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-introduces-smart-windows-coupe-doors-in-howrah-delhi-rajdhani-101611907081901.html
29-01-2021||India||Fresh turf war in Haryana as farmers resume toll plaza protests; forces deployed||A heavy security force has been deployed at Karnal's Bastara toll plaza following reports that the farmer unions will resume their protests against the three Central farm laws on Friday morning at the toll plaza on Delhi-Chandigarh NH 44.Karnal deputy commissioner of police has also asked the local Gurudwara committee members to suspend the langar service for farmers travelling on the highway, connecting Haryana and Punjab to the national capital."Yes we have deployed two companies of SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) along with the police force as there were reports that the famers are likely to resume their protest and this may cause tension in the district," Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said.He said the members of Gurdwara committees have agreed to suspend their langar services on the request of administration.It is learnt that the district administration was planning to restore toll collection at Bastara toll plaza, which was suspended after the farmers laid siege on all toll plazas in the state, allowing free passage to commuters for the past one month.In Panipat, protesting farmers resumed their protest at the toll plaza in the district on NH 44 and opened the barriers, allowing free passage of vehicles.The farmers threatened the toll company not to charge commuters until their protests are going on. The police deployed at the toll plaza failed to stop the farmers. The farmers’ siege of the plaza had been vacated by authorities on Thursday and toll collection had resumed.Also Read: ‘National flag, R-Day insulted’: President Kovind on January 26 violenceThe farmers swung into action after Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni gave a call to continue the protests at the toll plazas until farmers’ demands are met.In a video message, Charuni also warned the BJP-led Haryana government to not use force on farmers, protesting “peacefully” for the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-turf-war-in-haryana-as-farmers-resume-toll-plaza-protests-forces-deployed-101611907156021.html
29-01-2021||India||President Kovind lauds Centre for 'timely decision', 'saving lakhs of lives' during pandemic||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday lauded the Central government for its "timely decision", during the onging Covid-19 pandemic, "that saved the lives of lakhs of citizens" and pointed out that the number of new coronavirus cases was going down rapidly in the country.President Kovind, in his address to a joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament, paid tribute to those who succumbed due to the virus."Joint sitting of Parliament amid Corona pandemic is essential. It's a new year, a new decade and we are also entering into the 75th year of independence. Today all MPs are present here with message and trust that however tough be the challenge neither we nor India will stop. In this fight against the pandemic, we lost many citizens. Former President Pranab Mukherjee passed away in this Corona period. Six MPs left us untimely due to Covid. I pay my tribute to all of them," he said."I am satisfied that the timely decision taken by my Government saved the lives of lakhs of citizens. Today the number of new Covid cases is going down rapidly. The number of recoveries is very high," he added.Commenting upon the vaccination drive against Covid-19 which started on January 26, President Kovind said, "It is a matter of pride that India is running the biggest vaccination programme in the world. Both vaccines of this programme are made in India. In this crisis, India shouldered its responsibility towards mankind and provided lakhs of doses of vaccines to several nations.""We have seen huge benefits of the work done by my government in the last 6 years in the health sector during this corona crisis,"President said that the facilities of Ayushman Bharat Yojana can be availed in any of the 24,000 hospitals across the nation. "The poor are getting medicines at very low costs at 7000 centres across the country, under Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana," he added.The first part of the ongoing budget session will continue till February 15. The second part of the session will be held from March 8 to April 8.Rajya Sabha will function from 9 am to 2 pm and Lok Sabha from 4 pm to 9 pm with Zero Hour and Question Hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-lauds-centre-for-timely-decision-saving-lakhs-of-lives-during-pandemic-101611906779216.html
29-01-2021||India||Mumbai locals open for all from February 1 with timing restrictions||Putting an end to the long wait of Mumbaikars, the Maharashtra government has decided to allow the general public to travel by local trains from February 1. However, there will be timing restrictions to manage the crowd. As of now, it has been decided that the general public will be allowed to travel before 7am, between 12 noon and 4pm and then again after 9pm.The Maharashtra government on Friday extended its lockdown restrictions till February 28."As the chairperson of the state executive committee, I hereby issue directions that the guidelines to operationalize 'Mission Begin Again' for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening, will remain in force till February 28 for containment of Covid-19 epidemic in the state and all departments of the government of Maharashtra shall strictly implement these guidelines. The activities already allowed and permitted from time to time shall be continued and all earlier orders shall be aligned with this order and shall remain in force up to February 28," chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said issuing an order, early on Friday.Covid-19: Maharashtra govt extends lockdown restrictions till 28 FebruaryAs suburban trains are the lifeline for Mumbaikars, there was a growing demand to resume services for all. The government took a measured approach to reopen the services as the state has been hit the worst by the Covid-19 pandemic. In phased unlocking, the government allowed emergency staff, teaching, non-teaching staff, practising lawyers, women passengers, disabled people to travel by local trains. But so far, it was not open for all.From January 29, the number of trains was also increased almost to the pre-pandemic figures but the services were not open for all. As schools have partially opened and other establishments too are moving towards restoring their operations, there was pressure on the authorities to allow students and other commuters. Though the restricted timing may not cater to students and other office-goers, the authorities have finally allowed all to take the services.Central Railway and Western Railway operate trains on the suburban lines in Mumbai. The railway authorities have been saying that they were prepared to take the services to the next level, but the government was not giving them a go-ahead.On Friday, the announcement came from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as he also said shops will be allowed to remain open till 11pm and restaurants till 1am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-local-trains-open-for-general-public-from-february-1-101611905811774.html
29-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajasthan speeds up work to set up Barmer oil refinery and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan’s Barmer oil refinery to start by 2022, investors assuredThe Rajasthan government has sped up the work to set up Barmer oil refinery while developing the area around it as the petroleum chemicals and petrochemical investment region (PCPIR). Read moreCBI raids FCI godowns in Punjab, Haryana after complaints of irregularitiesThe Central Bureau of Investigation conducted surprise checks at 20 Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns in Punjab and Haryana on Friday after getting a number of complaints regarding alleged irregularities, officials said. Read moreFrom 'insult to National Flag' to farm laws: 10 quotes of Ram Nath KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind in his address to the joint session of Parliament mentioned the Capital violence that took place in Delhi on January 26. Read moreInd vs Eng: 'India won't outspin us,' Jofra Archer reveals why matches ‘will not be one-sided’India will host England for a full-fledged tour in February and March. The first Test of the tour will begin on February 5th with India and England locking horns in Chennai. Read moreRecipe: Paint your Friday ruby red with these tantalising raspberry tartletsOur passion for desserts has only grown stronger in the Covid-19 lockdown courtesy hours of idling at home that became our base for work and play this past year. Read moreNobel Laureate in Chemistry who failed the subject in school shares his storyAlmost everyone has a subject (or subjects) that they didn't particularly enjoy studying in school. Read moreWatch: Ex-vice president Hamid Ansari on Parliament impasse: 'It's getting ugly'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajasthan-speeds-up-work-to-set-up-barmer-oil-refinery-all-the-latest-news-101611904469830.html
29-01-2021||India||‘National flag, R-Day insulted’: President Kovind on January 26 violence||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday addressed a joint sitting of Parliament to mark the commencement of the Budget session. Speaking on the occasion, Kovind referred to the violence that took place during farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day, saying that the national flag and Republic Day were “insulted in the last few days.”“The national flag and a holy day like Republic Day were insulted in the past few days. The Constitution that provides us freedom of speech and expression, is the same Constitution that teaches us that law and rules have to be followed seriously,” news agency ANI quoted the President as saying. The national flag and a holy day like Republic Day were insulted in the past few days. The Constitution that provides us Freedom of Expression, is the same Constitution that teaches us that law & rules have to be followed seriously: President Ram Nath Kovind, in Parliament pic.twitter.com/ixc7vf7ipsAt least 18 Opposition parties boycotted the President’s address to express solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting against the three contentious farm laws since last November, on the outskirts of Delhi.The protests have been largely peaceful; however, on the day of the parade, protesters broke barriers and entered into the capital city, triggering clashes with the police. A group of protesters then marched towards the Red Fort, where the Republic Day ceremony had concluded just hours earlier, and hoisted a religious flag. The Delhi Police, which had approved three specific routes for the protesters, accused farmers’ unions, who have been leading the agitation, of violating the agreement with the police. While farmers’ leaders have taken “moral responsibility,” and several unions have distanced themselves from the stir, they have accused the Centre of “sabotaging” their agitation by sending its “agents” and conspiring with a farmers’ union that had refused to follow the route approved by the police.Also Read | From 'insult to National Flag' to farm laws: 10 quotes of Ram Nath KovindThe Delhi Police, nearly 400 of whose personnel sustained injuries in the violence, has booked more than three dozen farmers’ leaders. A Lookout Circular (LoC) has also been issued against several of the leaders. Rakesh Tikait, one of the farmers’ leaders booked, is currently engaged in a standoff with the police at the Ghazipur border in Uttar Pradesh.Protests against the three laws, which were passed last September, entered day 65 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-flag-r-day-insulted-president-kovind-on-january-26-violence-101611904591718.html
29-01-2021||India||Sikkim asks schools to introduce 11 local languages in curriculum||The Sikkim government has asked all schools in the state to introduce 11 vernaculars in their curriculum from the next academic session for students to pick one as second language, an education department official said.As of now, students in state-run schools are given Bhutia, Nepali, Lepcha and Limbu as options for second language, and seven more would be added to the list.Private schools will have to ensure that all 11 local languages, including Tamang, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa, Mukhia, Rai and Newar, are made a part of the curriculum, the official stated on Friday."This is for the information to all concerned that the state government has adopted the three-language formula in the following manner to be implemented in all schools within the state."... the first language, being the medium of instruction, English will be the first language. The second language will be any one of the state government-recognised 11 languages and Hindi will be the third language," according to a government notification.The private schools have been told to submit a compliance letter with proper evidence to the director, exam cell, for renewal of their provisional registration before the start of the new semester, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-asks-schools-to-introduce-11-local-languages-in-curriculum-101611900761992.html
29-01-2021||India||Serum Institute applies for bridging trial approval for Novavax Covid vaccine||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied to India’s drugs controller for permission to conduct small bridging study in India for Novavax’s Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate, which is the second Covid-19 vaccine that the company will be manufacturing locally.“We have already applied to the drug controller’s office for the bridging trial, a few days ago,” Poonawalla said. “So they should also give that approval soon now,” SII chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, told Reuters.Bridging trial is a supplementary trial performed in a new region or country to get more clinical data on efficacy, safety and dose regimen.The drugs controller general of India, VG Somani, and the committee of subject experts at Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation are in the process of examining the application. Poonawalla had earlier mentioned that SII will also start stockpiling Novavax’s vaccine candidate from April like it did with Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, which is currently being used in India as Covishield for its mass Covid-19 vaccination drive.SII has also received funding from GAVI- The Vaccine Alliance, for pre-producing at risk the two vaccine candidates.Meanwhile, Novavax has announced that NVX-CoV2373, its protein-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate had the efficacy of 89.3%, in its Phase 3 clinical trial conducted in the United Kingdom (UK).The study assessed efficacy during a period with high transmission and with a new UK variant strain of the virus emerging and circulating widely. “With today’s results from our UK Phase 3 and South Africa Phase 2b clinical trials, we have now reported data on our Covid-19 vaccine from Phase 1, 2 and 3 trials involving over 20,000 participants. In addition, our PREVENT-19 US and Mexico clinical trial has randomised over 16,000 participants toward our enrollment goal of 30,000. NVX-CoV2373 is the first vaccine to demonstrate not only high clinical efficacy against Covid-19 but also significant clinical efficacy against both the rapidly emerging UK and South Africa variants,” said Stanley C. Erck, president and chief executive officer, Novavax, in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-applies-for-bridging-trial-approval-for-novavax-covid-vaccine-101611902715809.html
29-01-2021||India||Serum institute applies to conduct local trial for Novavax vaccine, says CEO Poonawalla||The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, has applied to local authorities to conduct a small domestic trial of Novavax Inc's Covid-19 vaccine, which was found to be 89.3% effective in a UK trial.Serum expected a decision on an Indian trial of Novavax's vaccine soon, chief executive Adar Poonawalla told Reuters on Friday, hours after the US company reported the efficacy data."We have already applied to the drug controller's office for the bridging trial, a few days ago," Poonawalla said. "So they should also give that approval soon now."Novavax's UK trial, which enrolled 15,000 people aged 18 to 84, is expected to be used to apply for use in Britain, the European Union and other countries.SII is already bulk producing a vaccine created by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Poonawalla told Reuters earlier this month that his company would manufacture "upwards of 40-50 million doses per month" of the Novavax vaccine from around April.Also read| Rebooting the vaccine planIndian health officials say they generally ask for so-called bridging trials to determine if a vaccine is safe and generates an immune response in its citizens whose genetic makeup can be different from people in western nations.There are, however, provisions under rules introduced in 2019 to waive such trials in certain conditions. Pfizer Inc requested an exception while seeking an emergency-use authorisation for its vaccine developed with German partner BioNTech SE, a request the government has turned down.The Pfizer vaccine has not been approved in India, whose immunisation campaign is using a homegrown one developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and the AstraZeneca/Oxford University vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-applies-to-conduct-local-trial-for-novavax-vaccine-says-ceo-poonawalla-101611898264473.html
29-01-2021||India||Kunal Kamra refuses to apologise for tweet against Supreme Court||“Should powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism, we would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs,” stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra has told the Supreme Court in his affidavit filed hours before the hearing on a contempt case against him on Friday. He added if the court believes he has crossed a line and wants to shut down his Internet indefinitely, then he too will “write Happy Independence Day postcards every August 15 just like his Kashmiri friends”.Kamra was issued a notice of contempt on December 18 for allegedly denigrating the judiciary and judges through his social media posts after Attorney General KK Venugopal gave his consent for initiation of the contempt proceedings.ALSO WATCH | ‘Witnessing assault on freedom of speech’: Kunal Kamra defends tweets in SC﻿Kamra has filed his affidavit in response to the notice maintaining that even judges know no protection from jokes and that the public faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution’s own actions and not on any criticism or commentary about it.Also Read: ‘Hurts Hindus, anti-Dalit’: BJP leaders want Saif Ali Khan’s Tandav banned“We are witnessing an assault on the freedom of speech and expression, with comedians like Munawar Faruqui being jailed for jokes that they have not even made, and school students being interrogated for sedition.”The affidavit is replete with satire. “To believe any institution of power in a democracy is beyond criticism is like saying migrants need to find their way back home during an ill-planned, nationwide lockdown...the suggestion that my tweets could shake the foundation of the most powerful court in the world is an over-estimation of my abilities,” it said.“These jokes are not reality, and do not claim to be so. Most people do not react to jokes that don’t make them laugh; they ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the life of a joke must end...I do not believe that any high authority, including judges, would find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subjects of satire or comedy.”A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah will take up the case around 12pm on Friday.The bench will also hear a separate show-cause notice issued to another comedian, Rachita Taneja, over similar allegations of deriding the judiciary and judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kunal-kamra-refuses-to-apologise-for-tweet-against-supreme-court-101611899775716.html
29-01-2021||India||Next decade crucial, MPs must hold talks accordingly: PM Modi at Budget session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said he is hopeful that members of both Houses will contribute effectively during the Budget session of Parliament.Addressing the media ahead of the President’s address, which is being boycotted by as many as 19 opposition parties, the Prime Minister said the coming decade is crucial for the country’s future and this should be kept in mind while holding discussions in Parliament.“... This is the first session of the decade and for the bright future of India, this decade is crucial. Therefore, from the start, there should be efforts made to ensure the realisation of the aspirations of those who dreamt of a free India,” he said.Also Read: Oppn to boycott President speech today: All you need to know about the Budget sessionThe Prime Minister went on to say , “This is a golden opportunity. We should make the most of this decade and there should be discussions and presentations of all kinds of ideas.”Urging the MPs to fulfil their responsibilities, he said they have been elected to Parliament by the people and they should make the most of being here while abiding by the propriety of democracy. He expressed hope that MPs will not hold back from discharging their duties of fulfilling the aspirations of the people.“This is aBbudget session. This has probably happened for the first time in the history of India that four to five mini budgets were presented in 2020. It was a year of mini budgets and this ( budget presentation) will be seen in sequence of those mini budgets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-decade-crucial-mps-must-hold-discussions-accordingly-pm-at-budget-session-101611899295671.html
29-01-2021||India||'There have been 4-5 mini budgets in 2020,' PM Modi says ahead of Budget session||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has present four-five mini Budgets in 2020, making this an exceptional year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address ahead of the Budget session on Friday. The Union Budget will be seen as a continuation of those, PM Modi said.Speaking at the start of the Budget Session. https://t.co/qhQMTEXOsG"The first session of this decade is beginning today. This decade is very significant for a bright future of India. The session will keep the entire decade in mind. There should be discussions, presentation of different views this session," PM Modi said at the Parliament.The finance ministry released several tranches of money in 2020 meant to help ease financial constraints owing to Covid-19 pandemic.Follow live updates from Parliament Budget Session"I am confident we will be able to put this sacred place of Parliament to maximum use and fulfil the expectations of the people who have sent us here, upholding the tenets of democracy," PM said.After President's address, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Economic Survey 2019-20. The Union Budget will be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. The session will be held in two parts --January 29 to February 15 and March 8 to April 8 and will have a total of 33 sittings.The season beginning today is likely to be stormy as 18 opposition parties have announced announcing their decision to boycott the President's address, in solidarity with the farmers' protest.A total of 18 Opposition parties including the Congress, the NCP, Shiv Sena, DMK, Trinamool Congress, CPI, CPI-M and RJD and some other parties have announced that they would boycott the President's address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-have-been-4-5-mini-budgets-in-2020-pm-modi-says-ahead-of-budget-session-101611898072333.html
29-01-2021||India||Who are Rakesh Tikait and Naresh Tikait? All you need to know||An apparent division between Rakesh Tikait and Naresh Tikait came to surface on Thursday evening after Naresh Tikait, the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the protest at the Ghazipur site will end as there was pressure from the administration to vacate the space. However, Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of the union, said the protest will not end. Naresh Tikait has called a mahapanchayat at 11am on Friday. Though the events on Thursday projected two brothers at odds, later Naresh Tikait was reported to have said that his younger brother's tears will not go in vain.Here is all you need to know about the brothers and their apparent feud> Bharatiya Kisan Union is spearheading the farmers' protest against the recently passed agriculture laws. Both the brothers represent this union. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) is a separate faction.> Their father Mahendra Singh Tikait was an influential figure of Muzzaffarnagar. He had founded the Uttar Pradesh branch of Bharatiya Kisan Union, which was originally founded by Chaudhary Charan Singh who later became the Prime Minister.> Naresh Tikait, the elder son of Mahendra Singh Tikait, is the chief of the Baliyan Khap Panchayat which he inherited from his father who had become the Chaudhary of Baliyan Khap at the age of eight.> Rakesh Tikait, as the spokesperson of BKU, is a face of the ongoing protest as he is leading from the front. Naresh Tikait is at Muzaffarnagar. He has called a mahapanchayat on Friday.> Rakesh Tikait's insistence came in the wake of the pressure from the local administration as he said it's better to vacate than getting beaten up by police.चौधरी महेंद्र सिंह टिकैत के बेटे और मेरे छोटे भाई राकेश टिकैत के ये आँसू व्यर्थ नहीं जाएंगे। कल सुबह महापंचायत होगी और अब हम इस आंदोलन को निर्णायक स्थिति तक पहुंचा कर ही दम लेंगे। pic.twitter.com/gSaqoi4xzk> After Rakesh Tikait held the fort at Ghazipur and many protesters joined the Ghazipur site, Naresh Tikait said, "The tears of Choudhary Mahendra Singh's younger son won't go in vain. In mahapanchayat, I will take the decision to take this protest to a decisive stage," he said on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-happened-between-rakesh-tikait-and-naresh-tikait-all-you-need-to-know-101611896941207.html
29-01-2021||India||Srinagar temperature plunges to - 7.7 degree C; snowfall likely in Feb 1st week||The summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir witnessed another cold night as the night temperature in Srinagar further plunged to -7.7 degree Celsius on the intervening night of January 28 and 29, two notches below the minimum temperature recorded the previous night.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted another spell of snowfall in Kashmir in the first week of February. Since December, the Valley has witnessed back to back snowfall and the entire Kashmir division was gripped in a cold wave with sub-zero temperatures freezing water bodies and portions of the Dal Lake. IMD officials, however, said the fresh Western Disturbance would be feeble and there was no prediction for heavy snowfall.The night temperature in Srinagar had plunged to minus 7.7 degree Celsius, while the winter capital of Jammu recorded a night temperature of 7.4 degree C. Tourist and ski resort of Gulmarg witnessed minus 11.5 degree Celsius, while the minimum temperature in Pahalgam was recorded at minus 12 degree Celsius, according to IMD.Regional meteorological department said that the weather will improve by the end of this month when Chillai Kalan – the harshest 40- day period of Kashmir winter – ends on a dry note. This year the harshest winter period witnessed two to three spells of snowfall, including the one on January 9, when four to five feet of snow was deposited in Kashmir, leading to the suspension of air and surface connectivity with the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-temperature-plunges-to-7-7-degree-c-snowfall-likely-in-feb-1st-week-101611897335019.html
29-01-2021||India||Nagaland to accord state funeral to chief secretary Temjen Toy||A state funeral will be accorded to Nagaland chief secretary Temjen Toy who passed away on January 28 in Kohima. Toy, an officer of 1989 batch from Nagaland, died after a prolonged battle against cancer.He was 57 and is survived by his wife and four children.The funeral will be organised at the official residence of the chief secretary in Kohima, officials said. In this regard, all the government offices in Kohima have been directed to be closed so as to enable the government employees to pay their last respects to the departed official.The state Cabinet paid rich tributes to Toy for exceptional service during his 32 years of illustrious service career. “As the Chief Secretary, his leadership to the entire government machinery, matured and measured advice, counsel, and the tremendous goodwill enjoyed by him cutting across the length and breadth of the state was a source of immense strength to the Cabinet and the government officials. He made tremendous contributions and galvanised the entire Government machinery to fight the Covid-19 pandemic ensuring the people of the state were least affected,” said a statement issued by Cabinet secretary J. Alam. Governor RN Ravi, chief minister Neiphiu Rio, deputy chief minister Y Patton and Leader of Opposition TR Zeliang also condoled the demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-to-accord-state-funeral-to-chief-secretary-temjen-toy-101611896475398.html
29-01-2021||India||Rajasthan govt announces 2 % reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel||The Rajasthan government has reduced the value-added tax (VAT) by 2 per cent both on petrol and diesel, announced Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday.Gehlot also urged the Central government for a reduction in VAT."The State govt has reduced VAT by 2% both on petrol & diesel to provide relief to people in #Rajasthan. We expect the central govt would announce a reduction too so that financial burden on common people is reduced," Gehlot tweeted.For the last three days, petrol is being sold at ₹93.94 per litre and diesel at ₹86.02 per litre in Jaipur.A value-added tax (VAT) is a type of indirect tax levied on a product whenever value is added at each stage of the supply chain, from production to the point of saleRates differ from state to state depending on the incidence of value-added tax (VAT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-announces-2-reduction-in-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-101611895853776.html
29-01-2021||India||India witnesses sharp spike in new Covid-19 cases; 18,855 infections recorded||India’s latest daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a sharp spike as 18,855 new infections took the country’s tally to 10,720,048, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Friday. In its previous daily count, the country had reported 11,666 cases, meaning that the latest spike is nearly 7,200 infections higher than the previous one.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNumber of recoveries from the disease is closing in on the 10.4 million mark, as 20,746 new discharges took total recovered cases to 10,394,352, the ministry’s dashboard showed. Death toll crossed the 154,000 mark as 163 fresh fatalities took the total number of deaths to 154,010. Active cases, meanwhile, slumped below 172,000 and are at 171,686, a dip of 2,054 cases. Recoveries, active cases and deaths comprise 96.94%, 1.62% and 1.44% respectively of the total cases.On Friday, the govt-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it had tested 742,306 samples for Covid-19 till January 28, taking the total number of samples tested thus far to 195,081,079.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/plOm7KWnTlThese latest numbers come in a week India reported its lowest daily count since June 2020; 9,102 cases reported on January 26 was the first time the country had recorded less than 10,000 fresh cases since June 3, 2020, when 8,909 infections were reported. India is currently also in the middle of what is the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19, which commenced on January 16. A total of 2,928,053 healthcare workers have been inoculated thus far, the latest health ministry figures show. India is using Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin against the disease. Both vaccines were approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) earlier this month.India’s caseload of Covid-19 is the second-highest globally, while its death toll is the fourth-highest. The United States has the highest Covid-19 tally in the world, with Brazil in third. The US, Brazil and Mexico, in that order, have recorded the maximum number of deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-witnesses-sharp-spike-in-new-covid-19-cases-18-855-infections-recorded-101611895234316.html
29-01-2021||India||Bollywood filmmakers scout for locations in Kashmir as tourism picks up||Bollywood has started looking to explore scenic backdrops for future film projects in Kashmir.The top names which are exploring options are Ajay Devgun Films, Sanjay Dutt Productions, Reliance Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Films, Zee Studios, Adhikari Brothers & SAB (Marathi), Endemol, Rajkumar Hirani, Excel Entertainment besides representatives from Producers Guild, Mumbai.“A 24-member delegation of banners and artistes visited Gulmarg on Thursday. The team will stay in Srinagar on January 29 and also have interactive sessions with media, travel trade associations and the Valley’s film and line producers,” an official spokesman said.He said the people from Bollywood will also scout for locations at Pahalgam before concluding their visit.Also Read: Igloo cafe with tables made of ice opens in Gulmarg, KashmirDirector, Tourism, Kashmir, Dr GN Itoo said Kashmir has been receiving interest from Bollywood filmmakers and regional entertainment houses since tourism began here.“Kashmir is a natural backdrop for filmmakers and the department has been making it easy for them to get permissions for shooting.”Officials said besides tourists, many celebrities who recently visited Kashmir include singers Jubin Nautiyal, Guru Randhawa, Salman Ali, former actor and model Sana Khan, music composer Salim Merchant, TV host and anchor Aditya Narayan, business tycoon Anil Ambani., adding that most of them visited Gulmarg.“The Producers’ Guild praised the pristine beauty of Gulmarg and expressed a keen desire to shoot for their upcoming film projects at various locations in Kashmir. Kashmir has been traditionally a favourite spot for the Bollywood filmmakers who have shot scores of movies here at Dal Lake, Srinagar’s Mughal Gardens, Gulmarg and Pahalgam,” the spokesman said.A senior tourism official said that producers and representatives will meet with the stakeholders. “Today [Friday] they will be meeting people at Kashmir International Conference Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-filmmakers-scout-for-locations-in-kashmir-101611894915862.html
29-01-2021||India||Budget session: President to arrive at Parliament in a buggy||Ram Nath Kovind will arrive in the Parliament complex on Friday around 11am in the President’s horse-driven carriage (buggy) to address both houses of Parliament on the inaugural day of the Budget Session, people familiar with the matter said.For security reasons, the Union home ministry has asked staffers at North Block and South Block, which house key government ministries near the Parliament, to come to their offices on Friday morning from the rear gates rather than using Rajpath and Vijay Chowk.No vehicle will be allowed to be parked in earmarked parking areas and pavements adjoining Rajpath on the Raisina Hill from early morning till the return of the President to the Rashtrapati Bhavan there.Also Read: Oppn to boycott President speech today: All you need to know about the Budget sessionThe President’s buggy, given to India by the Viceroy of British India at the time of independence, was not used frequently since 1984. Pranab Mukherjee again resumed its use when he was the president, people familiar with the tradition said.The gold-plated buggy was earlier used by the president for ceremonial purposes and to move around in his 320-acre presidential house. However, due to security reasons, it is used only for few ceremonial purposes.On Friday, the anti-sabotage checks in North Block and South Block buildings also started very early, from around 6am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-president-to-arrive-at-parliament-in-a-buggy-101611894135915.html
29-01-2021||India||UP to withdraw cases filed against Covid-19 lockdown violaters||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to withdraw cases registered in connection with Covid-19 violations last summer. In a statement on Thursday, the government said the law and justice department of the state has issued a direction to the principal secretary to collect all the information regarding such cases as part of the process to withdraw them.Law minister Brijesh Pathak cited demands by traders and said the decision to withdraw the cases has been taken because of that. “The state government has started the process to withdraw such cases.”“With this decision, UP [Uttar Pradesh] has become the first state in the country to withdraw the FIRs [first information reports] registered in connection with breaking of Covid protocols during the lockdown. It will also serve as a warning to abide by the directions of the government and take special precautions in such situations in the future,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-withdraw-cases-filed-against-covid-19-lockdown-violaters-101611893715353.html
29-01-2021||India||In Ghazipur, cops issue ultimatum, farmers refuse to budge: Here’s what happened||Tensions simmering since the violent Republic Day tractor rally threatened to boil over at the Ghazipur protest site as authorities issued an ultimatum to defiant farmers to leave even as they refused to budge. Here is all you need to know about the situation at the farmer protest sites:• Security forces dug trenches, put up barricades, and bolstered numbers at the sites on Delhi’s borders on Thursday as cracks started to appear in the 64-day-old protest.• The protest lost momentum after the deadly turn of events on January 26 when farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with police, ran riot on the Capital’s streets, and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.• Thursday’s standoff began when Ghaziabad’s additional district magistrate (city) Shailendra Kumar Singh asked protesters to end their two-month-long sit-in and vacate the spot at the earliest or face action.• The order came hours after protesters said power and water supply to the site were cut off, and hundreds of policemen were sent there. • Police also diverted traffic on arterial roads connecting Delhi to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and closed several checkpoints.Also Read: 5,000 farmers gather to support Rakesh Tikait after he wept on national TV• Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait was issued a notice under section 133 of CrPC (conditional order for removal of the nuisance) for eviction from the Ghazipur site and he was also to be arrested later. • But Tikait refused to leave the site, saying they may approach the Supreme Court.• He maintained there is no question of vacating the Ghazipur protest site and police can do whatever they want.• Tikait accused the government of wanting to destroy farmers and warned if the farm laws are not repealed, he will commit suicide as he broke down.• A large police contingent and protesting farmers were positioned on either side of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway.• Tikait announced a hunger strike. With visuals of Tikait breaking down beamed on television, around 5,000 farmers gathered at his ancestral village of Sisauli, roughly 100km away, and threatened to march to Ghazipur.• Farmers, primarily from western Uttar Pradesh, have been sitting in Ghazipur for about two months. • On Wednesday, at least two other unions pulled out of the protests, and the farm unions called off a march to Parliament on February 1, the day the Union budget will be presented. • The unions lost more momentum on Thursday when another union, BKU (Lokshakti), which was camped at Noida, pulled out.• Tension has been building at Delhi’s borders since the January 26 violence. Police and the government have accused farm leaders of betraying their trust, vandalising property worth crores, and threatening lives. • Farm unions have taken responsibility for the violence, but blamed fringe elements led by Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu.• At Singhu, on the Capital’s northwestern border, the biggest of the four sites for farmer mobilisation, police increased security, blocked major entry points to the site, installed more concrete barriers using cranes and dug trenches using a JCB machine.• At around 12pm, nearly 50 people gathered and demanded that the protest be cleared. • The farm unions dismissed this demand and said they will continue their movement against the three laws passed in September.• Farm unions have called for a day-long fast on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, as a step towards atonement and taking moral responsibility for Tuesday’s violence.• Delhi Police have named farmer leaders in their first information reports, including Yogendra Yadav, Balbeer Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh, SS Pannu, and Darshan Pal. Farm unions said they were prepared to face jail but won’t retreat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ghazipur-cops-issue-ultimatum-farmers-refuse-to-budge-here-s-what-happened-101611892575911.html
29-01-2021||India||Oppn to boycott President speech today: All you need to know about the Budget session||Seventeen Opposition parties have announced the boycott of President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to Parliament on the first day of the Budget Session on Friday in protest against the three farm laws passed in September. Here is all you need to know about the potentially stormy session as the Opposition parties are set to confront the government:• This is the first time in recent history that nearly the entire Opposition will boycott the President’s customary address to Parliament at the beginning of the first session every year. • In 2019, the Opposition skipped Kovind’s special address to a joint sitting on the occasion of Constitution Day. • The Opposition parties have called the farm laws an assault on the rights of the states and violation of the federal spirit of the Constitution. Also read | ‘Hostility between govt, Opposition hampers House’: Ex-vice president Ansari• They added if not repealed, the laws will effectively dismantle the edifice of National Food Security that rests upon minimum support prices, government procurement and Public Distribution System.• Except for Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party, all Opposition parties are boycotting the address even as parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has asked the Opposition to reconsider the decision as the government is ready to discuss all issues threadbare.• Opposition parties intend to demand the repeal of the three laws that seek to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. • Farmers say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses.• Opposition parties also plan to target the government on its handling of the Covid-19-ravaged economy and the India-China border staff during the session. • They announced full support to farmers and claimed the government played a “nefarious role in orchestrating” the violence that marred protest rallies by farmers on Republic Day and said their main aim in the session would be to have the laws repealed.• Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that the session will offer “ample opportunity” for MPs to raise issues as this will be a long one with Question Hour and Zero Hour. • The session will run from January 29 to April 8 with a recess from February 15 to March 7. • The budget is to be presented on February 1.• The government seeks to replace four ordinances—the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020; the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance. 2020; the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, and the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020— during the session. • It will also push a data protection bill and the DNA technology regulation bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-to-boycott-president-speech-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-budget-session-101611891315226.html
29-01-2021||India||5,000 farmers gather to support Rakesh Tikait after he wept on national TV||Over 5,000 farmers gathered in support of Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait in Muzaffarnagar’s Sisauli village on Thursday evening after he burst into tears in front of television cameras, accusing the BJP of hatching a conspiracy against him, the union’s Muzaffarnagar district chief Dheeraj Latiyan said.Rakesh Tikait is among the farmer leaders protesting against the three farm laws, who have been booked for the violence during the tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day. Sisauli, a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, is the headquarters of BKU and the native village of Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait, who heads the union.BKU, which is demanding the withdrawal of the cases against farmer leaders, has now decided to hold a mahapanchayat at the government inter college ground in Muzaffarnagar, on Friday, to decide the strategy of the movement going forward, Latiyan said.About 50 kilometres from Sisauli, farmers held a panchayat at Baraut in Baghpat district of western UP earlier in the day on Thursday and constituted a nine-member committee to take a decision about the ongoing farmers’ movement. They claimed that the police used force to chase away farmers who were sleeping at a protest site on Wednesday night. The police have denied the allegations of a crackdown.The farmers' protest had been continuing on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Baghpat since December 17 last against the Centre's three contentious agriculture reform laws.The protesters alleged that police personnel entered their tents late on Wednesday night and resorted to a lathi-charge on the sleeping farmers. The police, however, claimed that the matter was resolved through deliberations and the protesting farmers were sent home on Wednesday night.Chaudhary Brijpal Singh, thambedar (local chief) of the Desh khap, who was leading the indefinite sit-in on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway since December 17, claimed that at least 15 farmers sustained injuries in the lathi-charge and five farmers were missing.Watch: Rakesh Tikait reacts to police order of vacating Ghazipur protest siteHe alleged the police lathi-charged even elderly farmers who were sleeping and took away their belongings. He said the committee formed at the panchayat would take a decision after consulting the people of the area.In a video, additional district magistrate (Baghpat) Amit Kumar said, “We removed farmers on the request of NHAI (National Highways Authority of India) which wanted to restart the work on the road that was hampered due to the farmers’ agitation.”He further claimed that there were four or five farmers at the protest site at the time and they were sent home.The office of the superintendent of police (SP) in Baghpat said a case against farmers was registered on the complaint of NHAI officials. Abhishek Kumar, public relations officer to the SP, said no farmer was arrested.However, Chaudhary Brijpal Singh claimed that he was taken to a police station and released from custody late in the night.Refuting the charge, circle officer Alok Singh said police did not resort to lathi-charge on the protesters. Whatever happened was in agreement with those present there, he said, adding that the protesting farmers returned home peacefully.In Sisauli, BKU's Muzaffarnagar district chief said it was indeed painful for farmers to watch Rakesh Tikait breaking down in front of TV cameras.Latiyan said farmers were carrying Ransingha (a traditional instrument that is blown before a march) and shouted slogans supporting the BKU and the Tikait brothers. He claimed that thousands of farmers would gather at Friday’s mahapanchayat.In a statement, Rakesh Tikait has blamed BJP for hatching a conspiracy to disgrace the farmers’ movement.Earlier in the day, another meeting was held at Sisauli under the leadership of BKU chief Naresh Tikait. At that meeting, the situation after the Delhi violence on Republic Day and cases registered against farmer leaders were discussed.BKU had called for a symbolic protest at the police stations in Muzaffarnagar against the cases lodged against farmer leaders. Latiyan said a memorandum was given at the Muzaffarnagar tehsil and at the Chartgawal, Bhopa and Purkazi police stations. Security was beefed up at all the police stations of the Muzaffarnagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5000-farmers-gather-to-support-rakesh-tikait-after-he-wept-on-national-tv-101611890707445.html
29-01-2021||India||Overwhelming response to tour packages now: IRCTC report||India’s tourism sector post the pandemic-induced lockdown is reviving with tour packages receiving an overwhelming response, Indian railways’ catering arm Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) said on Thursday.“Due to lockdown all commercial activities came to on a halt and tourism industry was not an exception. Tourism Industry was badly hit due to the Covid and is still struggling to revive... IRCTC has taken the lead and launched different domestic tour packages across India. All necessary health precautions are being taken care to provide safe and healthy travel during the tour. IRCTC is getting the tremendous response of the public and people are coming forward in large numbers to book the IRCTC Tour Packages,” it said.IRCTC’s air tour packages for Kerala, Goa, Kashmir, Andaman, Rann of Kutchh in Gujarat and India’s northeast region are fully booked for February and March and additional tours are being launched, IRCTC said.Also Read: Island tourism, deep-sea mining highlights of India’s Blue Economy policy“Bharat Darshan train from Varanasi to Jyotirlinga yatra started on January 10 with 600 tourists. Another train from Raxaul, Bihar is scheduled on January 31 for south India and more than 500 seats are booked. A pilgrim special train started from Jalandhar for Jyotirlinga tour on January 27 and was booked by more than 600 persons. Other tours from the east, south and west, planned by IRCTC, are also getting great patronage by public,” it said.IRCTC has decided to run a deluxe AC train on two different tours viz “Padharo Rajasthan” and “Jyotirlinga & Statue of Unity”. “In line with the Government of India initiative ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ to promote domestic tourism, IRCTC has planned these tour packages at a very competitive package cost starting from ₹22,830 per person for ‘Padharo Rajasthan’ and ₹24,450 per person for ‘Jyotirlinga & Statue of Unity’ Tour. Government/PSU employees can avail the LTC facility as per eligibility based on the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Finance, Govt of India,” it said.The “Padharo Rajasthan” tour will start from Delhi’s Safdarjung from February 12 and include four nights and five days’ stay. The second tour of “Jyotirlinga & Statue of Unity” will also start from Delhi from February 27 and will cover two prominent Jyotirlinga temples: Mahakaleshwar (Ujjain) & Omkareshwar, along with the Statue of Unity in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overwhelming-response-to-tour-packages-now-irctc-report-101611890595161.html
29-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cold wave continues in northwest India||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cold wave continues in parts of NW India; air quality turns severe in Delhi-NCRDense to very dense fog was reported in pockets of Punjab, Haryana, northwest Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Moderate fog was observed at isolated pockets over Chandigarh, Delhi and other places. Read moreBudget 2021: Economic Survey 2020-21 to be presented todayFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Economic Survey 2020-21 in Parliament on Friday as the Budget Session is all set to begin. The Budget will be presented on February 1. Read moreFarm stir: Heavy traffic near Akshardham, NizamuddinHundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway early on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration’s ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site. Read more'One of the exceptional players': India batting coach names player whose 'role will be extremely important going ahead'From not being India’s first-choice keeper when the Test series began to one of the heroes of India’s 2-1 series win, Rishabh Pant has come a long way in a matter of three Tests and about four weeks. Read moreBoy befriends a baby deer while playing outside. Their adorable pic wows peopleKids are great. Animals are great. A friendship between kids and animals? You guessed it – it’s great. Case in point, this post about two unlikely friends, a four-year-old boy and a baby deer. Read moreCarry Minati tells Kareena Kapoor Khan the meanest comments he gets, she doesn't buy itYouTuber Carry Minati in an appearance on Kareena Kapoor Khan's chat show, What Women Want, said that he is often mistaken for the character Munna Bhaiya, from the Amazon Prime Video web series, Mirzapur. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja slays winter fashion in Bhaane co-ords, Victoria Beckham coatIf there is one Tinsel Town celebrity who came make the dull beige and gloomy grey shades look radiant and fashion forward, it has to be Bollywood fashionista Sonam Kapoor Ahuja. Read moreFarmers split after Red Fort chaos: 2 leaders explain withdrawals from agitationThe tractor rally by the protesting farmers seems to have backfired. Farmer union leaders are divided over the protests at Delhi border points against Centre’s farm laws. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cold-wave-continues-in-northwest-india-101611887428028.html
29-01-2021||India||Dense fog over many parts of NW India; cold wave continues||Dense to very dense fog was reported in pockets of Punjab, Haryana,northwest Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Moderate fog was observed at isolated pockets over Chandigarh, Delhi, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Tripura.Patiala, Ambala, Gwalior, Bareilly, Sultanpur and Bhagalpur recorded visibility of less than 25 m each at 5.30 am this morning. Jhansi, Baharaich, Varanasi, Patna, Purnea and Gaya recorded visibility of less than 50 m each while the fog was a less dense in Chandigarh, Delhi (Safdarjung), Gorakhpur, Agartala and Kailasaher which recorded visibility of less than 200 m.Visibility had started reducing since Thursday evening. At 11.30 pm on Thursday, Gwalior recorded visibility of less than 25 m; Patiala, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Patna less than 200 m each.Also read | Mercury dips slightly but Gurugram may escape cold waveAmbala, Delhi (Safdarjung), Bareilly, Baharich, Sultanpur, Varanaai, Gaya and Bhagalpur had recorded visibility of less than 500 m each.Most towns and cities in NCR recorded severe air quality, including Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Friday morning. Severe air with air quality index of over 400 can affect healthy persons and seriously impact those with existing health conditions, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.Many parts of northwest India are recording cold day and cold wave conditions, according to India Meteorological Department.Cold day to severe cold day conditions occurred at few places over east Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh and east Rajasthan. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions occurred at many places over Punjab, Haryana, at a few places over east Rajasthan, east Uttar Pradesh and at some places over Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and west Rajasthan.The lowest minimum temperature over plains of northwest India was 1.1 degree C (°C) recorded at Adampur in Punjab on Thursday.Cold, dry northwesterly winds are blowing over the northern plains and adjoining parts of central India. Under its influence, cold day to severe cold day conditions are likely in some pockets over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next the 2-3 days. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in many pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan during the next 2 days and decrease in spatial distribution and intensity thereafter. Ground frost conditions are also likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next two days.Dense to very dense fog is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar during the next two days and decrease in spatial distribution and intensity thereafter. Dense fog in isolated pockets is also very likely over Uttarakhand, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next 2-3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-continues-in-parts-of-nw-india-air-quality-turns-severe-in-delhincr-101611888675329.html
29-01-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait's appeal draws more protesters to Ghazipur, cops leave | 10 points||The Ghazipur protest site — one of the key sites of the farmers on Delhi borders — witnessed a high-octane drama on Thursday night amid apprehension that authorities will vacate the site. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Thursday evening addressed the protesters and said he would not leave the site. His emotional video went viral and several farmers from Haryana started from their villages after watching his video where he said he would commit suicide at the camp if the administration used force.Farmers deny to leave protest site at UP Gate, 'excess police force' removedHere are the top 10 updates:> Rumours that the Ghazipur site will be vacated started spreading on Thursday as resistance from locals was reported from Singhu, the main site of the ongoing protest.> It was reported that electricity was disconnected at the Ghazipur site. There was a huge deployment of cops at the site.> Though there was no written order, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey reportedly asked the protesters to vacate the spot by Thursday night.Farmer leader Naresh Tikait says protest will end today, brother Rakesh says will continue agitation> On Wednesday night, the Baghpat administration removed protesters from a site in Uttar Pradesh and said no force was used. A similar move was being apprehended at the Ghazipur site.> The image of the peaceful protest was sullied after Republic Day violence in which several policemen were injured. Though union leaders washed their hands off the violence, they are under fire now. This had hit the morale of the protesters at Ghazipur on Thursday and the protest site wore a calm look during the day.> Rakesh Tikait's brother Naresh Tikait who is in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday said the Ghazipur protest will end. Rakesh Tikait differed and said he will stick to the protest.> The mood started to change after evening. After Rakesh Tikait broke down while addressing the protesters, the crowd at Ghazipur swelled.> At midnight, Tikait again addressed the protesters at Ghazipur site and said more farmers will be joining the site. He also appealed for peaceful protest.> DM Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani visited the protest site after midnight when there were a huge number of protesters present at the site, along with Rakesh Tikait.> The additional security force from the protest site was withdrawn close to the morning while only a minimal deployment of personnel remains there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-rakesh-tikait-breaks-down-video-draws-more-protesters-to-ghazipur-additional-forces-leave-10-points-101611887447869.html
29-01-2021||India||In Goa’s water row with Karnataka, Sawant vows not to bow to any pressure||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured the legislative assembly that he will not buckle under any pressure including that from his own party on the issue of the state's long-standing water dispute with neighbouring Karnataka, also governed by a BJP government.Replying to a calling attention motion moved jointly by members of the opposition benches, who alleged the Goa government had adopted a “lethargic approach” in dealing with the matter, Sawant insisted that party affiliations and considerations came secondary and the state’s interest would always be primary.“I will not come under any pressure from anybody. The party's and my government's interest is not more important than the state's interest. Even if we have to meet the PM in a delegation, we will not stay back,” Sawant told the House.Earlier, during the discussion on the motion, opposition members including the Leader of Opposition (LoP) Digambar Kamat and lawmakers Vijai Sardesai and Rohan Khaunte accused the government of doing nothing while Karnataka was diverting Goa’s share of water from Mahadayi river.In response the government said that the water was diverted “illegally” in violation of the Supreme Court’s and the tribunal’s directions; and a contempt petition had been filed by the state to challenge it.“There is no question that it has been diverted. But we have not defeated our purpose before. So far, we have not lost the case legally. We have not lost the legal battle. What we have lost is the quantity of water which they have diverted illegally. And that came to the notice of this government in 2018. And we had gone to the court to stop the construction,” water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues said.“The SC is not taking up the case and it is being delayed because of Covid-19. We have told the SC it cannot be held virtually. We have been asking for a physical hearing because we have to show a lot of documentary evidence,” he added.Sawant too concurred.“The Mahadayi water has been diverted. I can say it on record. It has been illegally diverted -- in violation of the Supreme Court order and in violation of the Mhadei Dispute Tribunal order,” he said.Also Read: Goa CM, Leader of Opposition spar over 'unparliamentary protest' in AssemblyGoa has opposed any diversion of waters of the River Mahadayi which originates in the Western Ghats in Karnataka, takes a detour via Maharashtra and enters Goa as the Mandovi. The Mahadayi river basin drains an area of 2032 sq.km., out of which an area of 375 sq.km.lies in Karnataka, 77 sq.km. in Maharashtra and the rest in Goa.Both the Goa and Karnataka governments have, for very different reasons, challenged the final award granted by the Mahadayi Interstate Water Disputes Tribunal which, in a verdict in August 2018, granted Karnataka a total of 13.42 Thousand Million Cubic Feet (TMC) of water against their claim on 36.558 TMC of water.While Goa has approached the Supreme Court arguing that Karnataka shouldn’t be allowed to divert any water since the Mahadayi is a water deficient river, Karnataka is arguing before the SC that the tribunal erred in granting it only 13.42 TMC of water. Besides, the Goa government has also filed a contempt petition accusing Karnataka of violation of the Supreme Court’s orders by going ahead with the diversion while the case is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-goa-s-water-row-with-karnataka-sawant-vows-not-to-bow-to-any-pressure-101611886617173.html
29-01-2021||India||Mumbai locals: More trains from today, but not for general public||From Friday, more local trains are available for daily passengers in Mumbai, but only passengers who have been allowed to travel by local trains under past directives will be allowed. Local trains are not yet open to the general public, the railway authorities have reiterated.How many additional trains will run from today?Instead of 2,781 trains, there will be 2,985 services on Mumbai Suburban network starting from today. The existing number is 2,781. Central Railway will increase the suburban services from the existing 1,580 to 1,685 services and Western Railway will increase the existing 1,201 suburban services to 1,300 services.Who are eligible to travel?There has been no change in the list of passengers who are eligible to travel in Mumbai locals. Emergency staff, practising lawyers, women, teachers, non-teaching school staff are allowed to travel in Mumbai locals. Disabled, cancer patients are also allowed.Are students allowed?No, despite the demand to make locals open to students as schools are reopening, students are not yet allowed to travel in local trains.Can people who are getting vaccines travel in local trains?As only health care staff are getting vaccinated at present and as all of them fall under the emergency staff category, they can travel in local trains.When will local trains be available for all?No decision in this regard has been taken yet. But as the Maharashtra government is unlocking gradually, it is likely that the services will be open to the general public in the next step after the government reviews the Covid-19 situation of the city following the increase of the number of trains.Why is the number of trains being increased while no additional passengers are being allowed to travel?Though no additional category of passengers is allowed to travel in local trains, the footfall has gone up in the past few months as all establishments are on their way to reopening. The number is being ramped up to ensure there is no crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-locals-more-trains-from-today-but-not-for-general-public-101611885671539.html
29-01-2021||India||Judge of ‘skin-to-skin contact’ case acquitted two others too||Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, whose controversial January 19 ruling that groping a minor without removing her clothes was not sexual assault but molestation was stayed by the Supreme Court on Wednesday, acquitted two more people in cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) on January 14 and 15, it has emerged.In the judgment on January 15, she held that holding the hands of a minor and unzipping one’s trousers in front of her does not amount to “sexual assault,” acquitting a 50-year-old labourer from Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district of the charge of “aggravated sexual assault” for doing so.In the verdict on January 14, she reversed a lower court order convicting a 23-year-old accused of rape of a minor on the grounds that the testimony did not “inspire confidence” and wasn’t of “sterling quality”. She also said the birth certificate of the minor was not verified.The judgments have raised questions about the judge’s handling of POCSO cases. In all three cases, accused convicted under the POCSO Act were acquitted by her. Pradeep Nandrajog, a former chief justice of Bombay HC, told news agency PTI the judgments were “flawed”.On January 19, the judge acquitted a Nagpur resident of the charge of sexual assault under POCSO, interpreting the term “physical contact” in the law to mean “skin-to-skin” contact. The man was acquitted of sexual assault under the POCSO Act for groping the breast of a 12-year-old. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the verdict.In the January 15 ruling, justice Ganediwala ruled that the act of holding the hands of a minor “prosecutrix”, or unzipping trousers in front of her, an act witnessed by PW-1 (prosecution witness 1), in the opinion of the court, did not fit in with the definition of aggravated sexual assault. She reversed the conviction of the man, Libnus Kujur, for aggravated sexual assault, a charge brought against him because the child was younger than 12 years of age.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and the National Commission for Women (NCW) took a serious note of the January 19 ruling by the HC judge. NCW expressed a desire to challenge the judgment before the Supreme Court and NCPCR wrote to the Maharashtra chief secretary to seek a review of the ruling. “It has been observed by the Commission (NCPCR) that the prosecution has failed in representing the case of the victim properly,” said NCPCR in a letter to the chief secretary. “If the prosecution had made the submissions as per spirit of the POCSO Act, the accused would not have been acquitted of the serious offence against the minor,” it added.“Further, the remark “skin-to-skin... with sexual intention, without penetration” also needs to be reviewed and the State should take note of this, as it seems to be derogatory to the minor victim,” the letter added.On Wednesday, the apex court took suo motu note of the January 19 judgment and stayed the acquittal, after attorney general KK Venugopal pointed out that the judgment was likely to set a dangerous precedent.So far as the case of the 50-year-old labourer was concerned, the incident took place on February 11, 2018. The complainant went to work, leaving her minor daughters alone at home. In the afternoon, when she returned, she saw Kujur was sitting in her house, holding the hands of her elder daughter, aged 5.Shocked to seen an unknown man sitting in her house, the complainant shouted and questioned him. The man set the daughter free only when the mother shouted at him again. The woman noticed that the man’s trouser zip was open and the child was pulling up her knickers. After the man ran away, the child told her mother that the man had exposed himself to her and was about to take her to “sleep”.Kujur was arrested and prosecuted for various offences under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.On October 5, 2020, a special POCSO court in Gadchiroli convicted the labourer for having committed an offence punishable under sections 354-A(1)(i) (sexual harassment) and 448 (house trespass) of the IPC and sections 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) read with section 9(m) (sexual assault of a child below 12 years of age) and 11(i) (sexual harassment) of the POCSO Act.He was sentenced to five years’ rigorous imprisonment for aggravated sexual assault.The Nagpur bench of the HC, on his appeal, set aside the conviction for the aggravated sexual assault. The judge said at the most, the offence was punishable under Section 354-A(1)(i) of the IPC r/w section 12 of the POCSO Act. She let him off with a prison term of 5 months that he has already served for the offence of sexual harassment.The case involving the 23-year-old man dates back to 2017, and he was convicted under provisions of POCSO Act in November 2019 and sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-of-skin-to-skin-contact-case-acquitted-two-others-too-101611882295061.html
29-01-2021||India||BJP trying to shift blame for violence by protestors in Delhi: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at Union Minister Prakash Javadekar over his remarks concerning violence during tractor parade by farmers on Republic Day and said it was "disgraceful and desperate attempt" to shift the blame.The Chief Minister said violence had "evidently been instigated by supporters and members of his own Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in collusion with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with the Congress nowhere in the picture"."Workers and supporters of BJP and AAP, and not the Congress, have been caught on camera waving the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort," the Chief Minister said.According to a Punjab government release, he said the union minister had made "unfounded allegations" against the Congress and Punjab government.The release said the chief minister made the remarks even as Delhi Police named Deep Sidhu, "a key aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, as one of the main instigators of the violence, and Amrik Micky, an AAP member, was also spotted at the violence site".The Chief Minister said not a single Congress leader or member was seen at the Red Fort indulging in any kind of lawlessness and added that farmers were not responsible for January 26 trouble, which "the doing of anti-social elements who had infiltrated the tractor rally"."The Centre should also get a free and fair probe conducted into the possible role of any political party, or even a third country as is being alleged by BJP's own leaders, to ensure that the guilty are punished and the genuine farmers are not unnecessarily maligned or harassed," he said.The Chief Minister also slammed the Union Minister for accusing Rahul Gandhi of inciting the violence."Did the Congress leader ask anyone to climb Red Fort? He did not. It was BJP and AAP men who did that," he said, adding that Rahul had promptly condemned the violence and made it clear that violence was no solution to the crisis."These allegations are nothing but a cover-up attempt by the BJP leader for his own party's role in the violence, and, in fact, for their utter failure to manage the situation, which they had created in the first place with the unilateral implementation of the black farm laws," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-trying-to-shift-blame-for-violence-by-protestors-in-delhi-punjab-cm-101611880484193.html
29-01-2021||India||Tandav makers can approach HCs for relief: SC||HTThe Supreme Court on Thursday clarified that its refusal to quash the seven FIRs lodged against the actors and makers of web series Tandav, and streaming platform Amazon Prime’s head across the country, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, will not come in the way of their approaching the respective high courts for relief.Following a request by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, the top court agreed to modify its Wednesday’s order to clarify that the petitions were dismissed only under Article 32 (for violation of fundamental rights) and not on merits.Luthra was appearing for Tandav director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Kishan Mehra and writer Gaurav Solanki.On Wednesday, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had declined to grant interim protection from arrest to Luthra’s clients, besides Bollywood actor Zeeshan Ayyub and Amazon Prime (India) creative head Aparna Purohit. The top court had said that all of them may seek bail from courts concerned in the FIRs lodged in connection with the web series.Luthra said that had the bench not mentioned that the dismissal of the plea was only under Article 32, the petitioners would not be able to secure relief from any high court in the country.“Which high court will entertain our petitions either under Article 226 (a writ petition) or under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code (quashing of FIRs) if this court doesn’t clarify that our petitions were not entertained under Article 32 and not otherwise? If the clarification doesn’t come through, our reliefs will be foreclosed,” Luthra submitted before the bench, which also included justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tandav-makers-can-approach-hcs-for-relief-sc-101611877247147.html
29-01-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi assassination case: Guv may decide on convict’s pardon plea today||A decision on the release of AG Perarivalan, one of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, is expected to be taken by Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit by Friday, when a week’s time according to the Centre’s submission in the Supreme Court ends.On January 21, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the apex court that the governor would take a decision in three or four days on Perarivalan’s plea but the court in its short order stated that it shall be considered in four weeks. On January 22, the court altered its order noting that Mehta submitted that Perarivalan’s application, which he filed with the governor in 2015, will be considered within a week.In 2018, the Supreme Court said that the governor was at liberty to decide on Perarivalan’s remission as he “deemed fit”. Following that, the Tamil Nadu cabinet unanimously passed a resolution for the premature release of the seven convicts in the 1991 case-- Perarivalan, Nalini Sriharan and her husband V Sriharan alias Murugan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P Ravichandran who have been in prison for close to three decades. This has been pending with the governor since. The recommendation, including that of Perarivalan, is under Article 161 which empowers the governor to remit the sentence of a convict.Perarivalan’s hopes were revived when the CBI in one of its affidavits told the top court last November that his release had nothing to do with the agency-led Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MMDA) probing the larger conspiracy into the case. The governor was said to be waiting for an MMDA report. “There doesn’t seem to be room for any more delays now,” says one of Perarvialan’s counsel’s K Sivakumar. “We had come so close to finding closure in this case before but it didn’t happen, dashing the hopes of his family. Now when Friday has been decided as the final day, it seems like we are reaching a final conclusion and we hope the Governor signs to release them.” On January 22, the court had listed the matter after two weeks.Perarivalan’s mother Arputham Ammal who has valiantly fought for her son as well as the other convicts’ release and advocated against the death penalty is unwell. The family’s supporters, including activists, politicians and legal aides have been trying to protect her from being disappointed.“The governor is only left with options to accept or reject the pardon,” says VCK MP D Ravikumar who accompanied Arputham to meet home minister Amit Shah in 2019 to secure their release.“He is likely to accept Perarivalan’s plea along with Nalini’s also keeping in mind the political situation. We don’t know what may happen with the other five who are Sri Lankan nationals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-guv-may-decide-on-convict-s-pardon-plea-today-101611876715215.html
29-01-2021||India||Govt appears blind to issue of news channels inciting riots: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday lamented that the Centre appeared “blind” to the growing problem of some news channels inciting riots and violence, underscoring the need for a strong regulatory regime for a crackdown on violators.“They (TV anchors) can shout anything, in any tenor. We don’t mind that. But we are concerned about broadcasts that can instigate people to riots and violence. There are situations which can take away lives of people and can lead to violence and destruction of public properties. We don’t know why you are blind to this problem,” an SC bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.“Ensuring law and order is an important part of governance. Preventing a particular kind of news at a particular point of time is a part of that (law and order). It is as important as providing lathis to policemen. It is as important as any other tool. But you, as a government, do nothing about it. That worries us,” observed the court.Mehta was representing the Centre on a clutch of petitions that complained against the alleged demonisation of Muslims by some TV channels. Petitioner Jamiat Ulama I Hind and others had, in particular, referred to a section of news channels that allegedly sought to spread communal hatred against the community over the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March during the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Jamaat meeting ended up being a super-spreader event, one of the first in the country, but it also resulted in skewed coverage on some TV channels.While Mehta admitted that the regulatory regime was not satisfactory with regard to news channels, the bench was unequivocal that certain news items had the propensity of triggering violence and unrest, and that the government was not doing much. “By saying you (government) are blind, we don’t mean anything offensive but the fact is that you are not doing anything about it. The government’s power to control a particular kind of news at a particular point of time is very important,” the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Mehta.The law officer conceded that the penalty of ₹1 lakh for violation of the broadcasting code was not sufficient, and that the government is considering creating an independent tribunal for dealing with complaints against news channels.The court also referred to how the police had to shut down the Internet in some areas of the National Capital Region after the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 took a violent turn. “Yesterday, you shut down the Internet because of the farmers’ visit to Delhi. We are using a non-controversial term. You had to shut down Internet. These are problems that can arise anywhere. We don’t mind fair and truthful reporting. The problem arises when it is projected in a way to agitate others,” observed the bench.Advocate Nisha Bhambhani, who appeared for the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), submitted that it acted as an independent body for self–regulation of 24×7 news channels that are members of the News BroadThe Supreme Court on Thursday lamented that the Centre appeared “blind” to the growing problem of some news channels inciting riots and violence, underscoring the need for a strong regulatory regime for a crackdown on violators.“They (TV anchors) can shout anything, in any tenor. We don’t mind that. But we are concerned about broadcasts that can instigate people to riots and violence. There are situations which can take away lives of people and can lead to violence and destruction of public properties. We don’t know why you are blind to this problem,” an SC bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.“Ensuring law and order is an important part of governance. Preventing a particular kind of news at a particular point of time is a part of that (law and order). It is as important as providing lathis to policemen. It is as important as any other tool. But you, as a government, do nothing about it. That worries us,” observed the court.Mehta was representing the Centre on a clutch of petitions that complained against the alleged demonisation of Muslims by some TV channels. Petitioner Jamiat Ulama I Hind and others had, in particular, referred to a section of news channels that allegedly sought to spread communal hatred against the community over the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March during the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Jamaat meeting ended up being a super-spreader event, one of the first in the country, but it also resulted in skewed coverage on some TV channels.While Mehta admitted that the regulatory regime was not satisfactory with regard to news channels, the bench was unequivocal that certain news items had the propensity of triggering violence and unrest, and that the government was not doing much. “By saying you (government) are blind, we don’t mean anything offensive but the fact is that you are not doing anything about it. The government’s power to control a particular kind of news at a particular point of time is very important,” the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Mehta.The law officer conceded that the penalty of ₹1 lakh for violation of the broadcasting code was not sufficient, and that the government is considering creating an independent tribunal for dealing with complaints against news channels.The court also referred to how the police had to shut down the Internet in some areas of the National Capital Region after the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 took a violent turn. “Yesterday, you shut down the Internet because of the farmers’ visit to Delhi. We are using a non-controversial term. You had to shut down Internet. These are problems that can arise anywhere. We don’t mind fair and truthful reporting. The problem arises when it is projected in a way to agitate others,” observed the bench.Advocate Nisha Bhambhani, who appeared for the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), submitted that it acted as an independent body for self–regulation of 24×7 news channels that are members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA). She pointed out that NBSA has its own limitations and that there were certain channels which would gladly cough up ₹1 lakh, which was the maximum penalty for violations, instead of issuing an apology.To this, the bench responded: “But here the problem also will be when someone will be willing to issue an apology after telecasting whatever he feels like. This is why it is important to prevent these things.”Solicitor general Mehta requested the bench to give him some time to bring on record all pertinent laws and rules in this regard. The court adjourned the matter for three weeks, asking all the parties to submit their responses and suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-appears-blind-to-issue-of-news-channels-inciting-riots-sc-101611874671934.html
29-01-2021||India||‘Hostility between govt, Opposition hampers House’: Ex-vice president Ansari||Boycott of the President’s address by Opposition parties may be a symbolic move but the hostility between the ruling party and the opposition is becoming “ugly”, former vice-president of India Hamid Ansari said after leaders of 17 political parties on Thursday said they will boycott President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to Parliament to express protest over the new agriculture laws.Open communication between the government and the Opposition is the prerequisite of parliamentary democracy, Ansari said, adding, “If there is hostility (between the two sides), communication breaks down. And then it (democracy) cannot work.”Ansari said: “Every five years, sides change...Parliamentary democracy requires the observance of certain etiquette or procedures and unless those are observed, the system cannot work.” He said the government of the day has to exercise persuasion as a critical skill for democratic functioning and talk to people on the other side.In his soon-to-be-released memoir, By Many a Happy Accident, Ansari said he never allowed the passage of a bill in the event of a commotion in the House. He didn’t comment on the manner in which the farm laws were passed, with the Opposition walking out but upheld the importance of standing and select committees, the panels the Opposition demanded should scrutinise the bills. “It takes a little time but every step has been carefully calibrated,’’ he said.“We have had a derailment in our system of Parliamentary governance. In the 50s and 60s, the Parliament used to sit for 90-100 days in a year. Now, it is 60 days. How can you finish the work in this time, unless you make undue haste? And undue haste is embodied in these kinds of exercises.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hostility-between-govt-opposition-hampers-house-ex-vice-president-ansari-101611873302417.html
29-01-2021||India||Farmers deny to leave protest site at UP Gate, 'excess police force' removed||Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway early on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration’s ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site.A confrontation was building up at the UP Gate in Ghazipur even as frequent power cuts were witnessed in the evening at the protest site, where BKU members, led by Rakesh Tikait, are staying put since November 28.In a post-midnight review of situation, Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani visited the protest site even as hundreds of security personnel in anti-riot gears were deployed since Thursday.Flanked by supporters at 1 am, Tikait remained at the centre stage of the protest site -- the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which has been barricaded from both the sides, prohibiting regular traffic movement.Around 500 protestors stayed put at UP Gate with more pouring in from western Uttar Pradesh in the night on the call of the BKU, an influential farmers’ union in North India."Excess security force from the protest site has been withdrawn and only a minimal deployment of personnel remains there," a Ghaziabad police officer told PTI on the condition of anonymity."The tension was building at UP Gate due to excessive deployment of force since Thursday evening," the officer added.Several protestors waved the tricolour with some waving flags of farmer unions like Kisan Ekta Manch amid a continuous sloganeering of "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan", while many were lying down on mattresses covered in blankets as they braved bone-chilling cold and wind."Zaroorat padi to khade rehke dharna denge, tum dharne pe baithe rehne ki baat karte ho (I can protest while standing up and you are asking whether I am going to continue my sit-in protest)," Jagat Singh Rathi, 78, said.With a muffler tied around his head and a stick in his hand for support while walking, the septuagenarian from Meerut said that he has been at the BKU's protest since its beginning on November 28.Asked if he would vacate the protest site following the administration's communication, he said, "(UP Gate) khaali nahi karenge. We have not seen any such order to vacate the protest site. When the Supreme Court has said that farmers have a right to protest then what? We will do it."The "verbal" communication from the district administration to the BKU on Thursday came close on the heels of three farmer unions withdrawing their protest against the three farm laws over the violence in Delhi on Republic Day."Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has communicated to the protestors camping at the UP Gate at Delhi border to vacate the spot by tonight or the administration will remove them," a district official had told PTI.Thousands of protesting farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-deny-to-leave-protest-site-at-up-gate-excess-police-force-removed-101611870095961.html
29-01-2021||India||Eviction notice, high drama at Ghazipur||Tension hung in the air at a key protest site on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Thursday after authorities gave an eviction notice to farmers who have been protesting there since November-end, while they refused to leave the site and alleged a conspiracy to crush their movement.High drama unfolded at the Ghazipur border, where rumour mills were abuzz throughout the day, and a large number of security personnel were deployed with authorities moving to bring an end to the demonstration at the key intersection.Farmers protesting there against three central agricultural laws said that power was disconnected in the area on Wednesday night. They feared that police will use force to evict the demonstrators in the cover of the night.On Thursday morning, they also said that water supply was discontinued, prompting a group of farmers to leave their empty tents behind at UP Gate — as the place is known — and return home.In the evening, hectic parleys began between officials and farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, whose Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Tikait group is spearheading the protests there. There were indications that farmers were planning to court arrest peacefully in the evening.But Tikait later said he would fight the “conspiracy” to silence his movement.“We received a notice from the officers and we are ready to surrender and get ourselves peacefully arrested. But now it seems that it’s a larger conspiracy to attack us. Now, we are not moving from here (the protest site) and ready to face bullets. If they (police) will force us, I will hang myself on the stage. Our agitation will now continue and we will remain here only,” Tikait told the gathering in the evening.Tikait broke down on the dais and alleged that the district administration was taking help of some “unruly elements”, who he said were brought to attack farmers after he courted arrest.“So, I have decided that I will not court arrest and will continue the dharna at the site...Police asked me to court arrest, but people owing allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party were sent by some local MLAs, and those persons were armed with sticks...,” he said.Tikait is among the farmers’ leaders named in one of the first information reports (FIRs) filed by the Delhi Police in connection with a violent farmers’ protest on Republic Day. BKU-Tikait says the government is “misusing” its powers by registering FIRs against farmers and farm leaders.The Ghazipur border is one of the four border points near Delhi fully or partially blocked by thousands of agitating farmers since their protests began in the last week of November.On Tuesday, groups of farmers deviated from the route agreed upon with authorities for their Republic Day protest and drove their tractors till Delhi’s ITO, where they were involved in a clash with the police.While a smaller protest at the Chilla border nearby ended on Wednesday in the aftermath of the violence, a majority of the protesters at the Ghazipur stayed put.By Thursday morning, a large number of police and paramilitary personnel arrived at the venue and occupied the pavement of the carriageway on the opposite side of the one occupied by the farmers. They brought water cannons and vehicles used for firing tear gas.The turn of events — from seemingly courting arrest to staying put -- at the Ghazipur border caught the district officials by surprise. They eventually walked out of the protest site, and marched to the other side of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, where a huge contingent of civil police, Provincial Armed Constabulary jawans and personnel of the Rapid Action Force were deployed.“We served him (Tikait) the notice...for eviction from the site and he was also to be arrested. But he seems to have played a ploy and unexpected events unfolded, in which he refused to leave the site. We have deployed sufficient police and other security personnel at the site and are also in talks with other farmer leaders,” said Ghaziabad additional district magistrate (city) Shailendra Kumar Singh, who went to the protest site to serve the notice.By night, the ripples of Thursday’s developments were felt at Muzaffarnagar’s Sisauli village in Uttar Pradesh, where over 5,000 farmers gathered in support of Tikait after his breakdown in front of television cameras.Before officials arrived at the Ghazipur border with a huge contingent of armed police, some people came in groups and began raising slogans against Tikait and demanded complete eviction of protesters from the site.“Tikait is lying since the beginning to farmers and brought them here for the protest. Many of these protesters went to Delhi on Republic Day and clashed with police...He is just trying to evade arrest and making unwanted statements against the BJP and even the BJP MLAs,” said Sunil Sharma, the party legislator from Sahibabad. The area on the Uttar Pradesh side falls under his constituency.“None of the people who arrived near the UP Gate site were BJP supporters; they were local people furious after the incidents at the Red Fort and in Delhi,” Sharma, who was not present at the border on Thursday, said.As tension spiralled, the Delhi Traffic Police closed off entry and exit from Ghazipur border on Thursday evening. Till afternoon, vehicles going from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh were allowed, while the opposite carriageway was closed. The action led to long traffic snarls in the national capital, with commuters getting stuck for several hours amid unannounced diversions and high traffic volume. Snarls were reported on the Noida Link Road, Ashram crossing, Vikas Marg, ITO intersection, Sarai Kale Khan, Barapullah, Pragati Maidan, Bhairon Marg and Lajpat Nagar.Satpal Singh, a farmer from Rampur, said many protesters left the site after panic set in. “It was a trick that the police used to intimidate farmers,” he said, referring to allegations that power and water connections were disrupted at the site.Sompal Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, said, “Since it was dark, we switched on lights of our tractors and lit log fires at many places,” he said.The standoff continued till the time of going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eviction-notice-high-drama-at-ghazipur-101611868796538.html
29-01-2021||India||An overview of justice delivery across all states||The second edition of the India Justice Report by Tata Trusts, compiled in collaboration with civil society organisations to assess the capacity of various states to deliver justice, was released on Thursday. The report uses statistics compiled by states to rank 18 large and mid-sized states, and seven small states, and compares their performance based on parameters across what it calls the four pillars of the justice delivery system: judiciary, police, prisons, and legal aid. Using a quantitative measurement of budgets, vacancies in human resources, diversity in gender, workload, and infrastructure, the report uses 87 indicators to rank a state against other states, many of them over the last five years as well as since the previous report. Here’s a look at the highlights on how states performed in 2019-2020.1. Toppers, low performing statesIn both reports — the first edition corresponded to the year 2019; the second corresponds to 2020 — the topper remains Maharashtra, while Uttar Pradesh ranks the last among large and mid-sized states. Two other states, Punjab and Uttarakhand, remain at the same rank as before: 4th and 15th, respectively. But across the categories, two states have shown a remarkable jump in rankings: Telangana and Jharkhand, now at the 3rd and 8th positions respectively, have shown a concomitant rise of eight spots each. Karnataka and MP, on the other hand, recorded the biggest drop in ranking, by eight and seven spots respectively.Among the small states, Tripura has shot right up to the top from the bottom of the pile. Sikkim maintained its second position in these seven states. Among all states, southern and western ones, in general, ranked better. The report has not ranked the UTs and four states where the Armed Forces Special Powers Act is enforced (Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur and Nagaland).2. A closer look reveals wide disparityThe overall rankings, though a composite measure of a state’s standing in the country, do not mean that a state actually has the best or the worst overall justice delivery systems in place. The overall ranking is a result of a state’s ranking across the four pillars of justice delivery system. To understand what a state lacks or is good at, one needs to look at these subcategories. There is only one state, Jharkhand, whose rank has improved across the four pillars. Only two states, Bihar and Telangana, have got better at three pillars, while 12 states have ranked better in one or two pillars. On the contrary, three states have recorded a drop in their ranks across all four pillars. These include Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, and Haryana. Three other states have recorded a drop in their ranks across three pillars. These are Kerala, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. To be sure, a drop in ranking does not necessarily mean that the state of affairs in a state has got worse in absolute terms but that the other states have improved more than it, making them rank better. In fact, every state has shown improvement in at least some of the indicators across the four pillars.3. Here's how states got better﻿Maharashtra, the state that has ranked first overall, actually ranks first in only one pillar, legal aid, while it is a laggard in terms of police, where it is behind 12 other states. Chhattisgarh has made big gains in judiciary (an eight-spot jump) primarily due to increased number of high court judges and decreased pendency in subordinate courts. The state has also made an eight-spot jump — the biggest among all states — in terms of police. This is primarily because of an increase in the total number of officers and a more diverse police force in terms of gender and caste representation other than decreased vacancies. Rajasthan has made big gains in prisons (ranking 1st in 2020 compared to 12th in 2019), according to the report because of better budget utilisation, more officers and cadre staff, reduced overcrowding and an increase in women prison staff. In terms of legal aid, Bihar has made the biggest gain (ranking 2nd in 2020 compared to 16th in 2019). This, the report said, is because of better utilisation of funds, more legal clinics, and an increase in the number of women in paralegal services.Spotting the lackAlthough the report primarily ranks states for the sense of competitiveness, it also highlights several shortcomings in the justice delivery system at the national level. This includes a lack of diversity in the police force and judiciary, high vacancies across pillars, high prison occupancy rates, high proportion of undertrial prisoners, case pendency in high courts and subordinate courts, and access to justice delivery institutions being skewed against rural populations.Source: Bureau of Police Research and Development, Prison Statistics India, National Judicial Data Grid, websites of high courts, department of justice, National Legal Services Authority||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-overview-of-justice-delivery-across-all-states-101611867639836.html
29-01-2021||India||Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren launches JMM poll campaign in Bengal, Mamata fumes||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday rekindled the hope of a greater Jharkhand while launching the party's West Bengal assembly poll campaign from Jhargram, the tribal dominated hinterland.Addressing the JMM rally from Jamda circus maidan he said it was a calculated move by the Centre to fool the tribals creating two separate states - Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh while nurturing the tribal aspirations of their own homeland.Birbhum, Midnapur, Jhargram, Bankura of West Bengal were parts of the greater Jharkhand movement launched by his father Shibu Soren along with a few districts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh, he said and reiterated that the people, tribals in particular, would have to launch a fresh stir to achieve that. West Bengal has five per cent of tribal population, he reminded.“This is the launch of our party's poll campaign; I will come again,” said Hemant Soren.The JMM had contested 22 assembly seats in the 2016 state polls in West Bengal. This time the party is eyeing 25 to 30 seats in the neighbouring state.Slamming the Centre he said the new farm laws were against the interest of the farmers. He also mentioned that the Centre was also planning land reforms.The Jharkhand chief minister observed that everything was on sale be it railways, airlines, airports and wondered if blood would be cheaper than water in the future.He said that polls are the stepping stone to democracy and appealed to the people to vote. Every vote counts, he stressed.Jharkhand minister Champai Soren, JMM legislators Samir Mahanty and Ramdas Soren, West Bengal state unit secretary Bittu Murmu, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya and veteran leader Hidayat Khan also addressed the gathering.Reacting on the JMM rally, Trinamool Congress president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was unfair.“What is this? I was the first person to attend his swearing-in ceremony and offer my full support to him and his party. And today he has come to Bengal to contest elections. He wants to field candidates. This is unfair.”Addressing members of various non-Bengali communities at the Trinamool Congress headquarters on Thursday afternoon she said a large number of Bengalis are based in Jharkhand.“Should we go there to contest polls? Maybe we should do that,” said Banerjee while appealing to the non-Bengali community to support the TMC and campaign against the BJP.(With Inputs from Kolkata Bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-launches-jmm-poll-campaign-in-bengal-mamata-fumes-101611861077319.html
29-01-2021||India||2021 to be Indo-French Year of the Environment||The Union environment ministry launched the Indo-French Year of the Environment on Thursday along with Barbara Pompili, the French Minister for Ecological Transition.The Indo-French Year of the Environment over the period 2021-2022 would be based on five main themes including environmental protection, climate change, biodiversity conservation, sustainable urban development, renewable energy and energy efficiency according to a statement by the ministry.From the French side, it will be implemented by the Ministry of Ecological Transition along with the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. From the India, the projects will be coordinated by MoEFCC along with the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. A joint screening committee will also be set up to finalise the calendar of the events for the Indo-French Year of the Environment.In a bilateral meeting between the French delegation and their Indian counterpart at the Environment Ministry, the two sides discussed issues related to climate change, biodiversity, blue economy, international solar alliance, cooperation in eliminating single-use plastic etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-to-be-indo-french-year-of-the-environment-101611860129812.html
29-01-2021||India||2 Congress legislators from Puducherry join BJP after quitting key posts||In a setback to the ruling Congress in Puducherry, its former legislators who were expelled from the party and resigned on Monday have joined the BJP in Delhi on Thursday.Puducherry’s Congress unit sacked its public works minister, A Namassivayam for ‘anti-party’ activities after he made statements regarding quitting. Subsequently, he resigned from the cabinet and MLA’s post along with another Congress MLA and his supporter E Theepaindan. The duo called on senior BJP leaders in Delhi and vowed to bring the BJP to power in the poll-bound union territory. Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted a photo with the new members along with party president JP Nadda.Nadda is scheduled to arrive in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai on Friday night to hold high level meetings and also give a public speech on January 30 in the district. On the following day, he will be in Puducherry. The BJP which barely has a presence in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry is on a recruiting spree.“Those who join BJP in Puducherry or Tamil Nadu will be lost,” Puducherry chief minister N Narayanasamy had said earlier this week. With the exit of the two MLAs, the strength of the Congress in the Puducherry assembly has come down to 12 where its ally DMK has three seats. Congress and DMK are also facing trouble though Rahul Gandhi said that he has faith in the relationship during his visit to Tamil Nadu earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-congress-legislators-from-puducherry-join-bjp-after-quitting-key-posts-101611859098632.html
29-01-2021||India||BJYM leader in Madhya Pradesh among 20 booked for smuggling cows to Maharashtra||Twenty people including a local leader of the Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) were booked in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh for allegedly smuggling of cows and oxen to slaughter houses of Maharashtra, police said Thursday.The police rescued 165 cows and oxen from a forest area of Balaghat which were being herded to a village near the Maharashtra border, said Raghunath Khatarkar, town inspector Lalpur police station, Balaghat.An FIR has been registered against 20 people including the main accused Manoj Pardhi and Arvind Pathak and 18 others under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of IPC and under relevant sections of Madhya Pradesh Gau Vansh Pratishedh Adhiniyam 2004, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and MP Krishak Pashu Parikshan Adhiniyam, said the officer. Police arrested 10 people while Manoj and Arvind with eight others are absconding.Manoj Pardhi is said to be a general secretary of BJYM.The police officer said, “The main accused Manoj and Arvind used to purchase cows and other cattle from Maubazar, a cattle fair in Balaghat. Later, they used to hire herders to drive away the cattle to Bodalkasa village located on Maharashtra border. From Bodalkasa village, a trader used to supply cattle to slaughter houses of Maharashtra.”Acting on tip off that cows were being smuggled for slaughter, a police team raided in the forest area of Balaghat from where they rescued at least 165 bovines in 10 hours.Balaghat superintendent of police Abhishek Tiwari said, “We are investigating the matter. It is an organised gang involved in smuggling of cows. Police are trying to nab the accused."BJP Balaghat district president Gajendra Bhardwaj said, "We just came to know about it. We are looking into the matter."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjym-leader-in-madhya-pradesh-among-20-booked-for-smuggling-cows-to-maharashtra-101611858860226.html
29-01-2021||India||Tension at farm protest sites as forces build up||Security forces dug trenches, put up barricades, and bolstered numbers at farmer protest sites on Delhi’s borders on Thursday, as tensions simmering since a violent Republic Day tractor rally threatened to boil over at Ghazipur on the eastern fringe of the Capital, where authorities issued an ultimatum to defiant cultivators, who refused to budge.Cracks have started to appear in the 64-day-old protest, which has lost momentum after the deadly turn of events on January 26 when farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed violently with police, ran riot on the Capital’s streets, and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.Thursday’s standoff began in the afternoon when Ghaziabad additional district magistrate (city) Shailendra Kumar Singh asked protesters at UP Gate to end their two-month-long stir and vacate the spot at the earliest, or face penal action.The order came hours after protesters said power and water supply to the site were cut off, and hundreds of policemen streamedinto the site. Police also diverted traffic on arterial roads connecting Delhi to UP and Haryana, and closed several checkpoints, such as Auchandi and Piau.“We served him (Rakesh Tikait) the notice under section 133 of CrPC (conditional order for removal of nuisance) for eviction from the site and he was also to be arrested later on. But he seems to have played a ploy and unexpected events unfolded in which he refused to leave the site,” said Singh.But the farmers refused to move, with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait saying he may approach the Supreme Court.“There is no question of vacating Ghazipur. Police can do whatever they want,” he said, as small groups of people shouted anti-farmer slogans. “The government wants to destroy farmers. If the farm laws are not repealed, Rakesh Tikait will commit suicide,” he told the agitators late evening, breaking down towards the end of the address.As night fell, a large police contingent and protesting farmers were positioned on either side of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, and Tikait announced a hunger strike. With visuals of Tikait breaking down beamed on television, around 5,000 farmers gathered at his ancestral village of Sisauli, roughly 100km away, and threatened to march to UP Gate.At the time of going to print, the standoff continued.Farmers, primarily from western UP, have been sitting in Ghazipur for about two months. Tikait’s brother, Naresh Tikait, announced in Muzaffarnagar that the agitation will be withdrawn. On Wednesday, at least two other unions had pulled out of the protests and the farm unions called off a march to Parliament on February 1, the day the Union budget will be presented. The unions lost more momentum on Thursday when another union, BKU (Lokshakti), which was camped at Noida, pulled out.Tension has been building at Delhi’s borders since the January 26 violence. Police and the government have accused farm leaders of betraying their trust, vandalising property worth crores, and threatening lives. Farm unions have taken responsibility for the violence, but blamed fringe elements led by Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu.At Singhu, on the Capital’s northwestern border, the biggest of the four sites for farmer mobilisation, police increased security, blocked major entry points to the site, installed more concrete barriers using cranes and dug trenches using a JCB machine.At around 12pm, nearly 50 people gathered and demanded that the protest be cleared. “We had been sympathetic to their cause so far because we too are farmers. But when we saw their actions during Republic Day, when they insulted the Tricolour at Red Fort, we knew that they were not farmers,” said Mohan Bhardwaj, 42, a resident of Bawana.The farm unions dismissed this demand and said they will continue their movement against three recently passed laws that they claim will erode their bargaining power and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate giants.“The protests are not about sites but issues of farmers’ livelihoods. We will atone for the violence with a fast and whoever doesn’t agree with our peaceful goals are free to leave but the protests will continue as they are. They will only expand,” said Avik Saha, the national secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a farmers’ organisation that plays a key role in the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body leading the protests.Farm unions have called for a day-long fast on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, as a step towards “atonement” and taking moral responsibility for Tuesday’s violence.Delhi Police have already named senior leaders in their first information reports, including Yogendra Yadav, Balbeer Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh, SS Pannu, and Darshan Pal. Farm unions said they were prepared to face jail but won’t retreat. “When we began the agitation, we expected repression from the government. We didn’t expect cakes,” Saha said.The protesters also received political support from Opposition leaders. “Time to pick a side. My decision is clear. I am with democracy, farmers and their peaceful movement,” tweeted former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh spoke to the Tikait brothers over phone, announced Singh’s son Jayant Chaudhary. “Don’t worry. This is a do or die situation for the farmers. We need to remain together and united,” Singh told the farm leaders, according to a tweet by Chaudhary.Late in the evening, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar announced that members of BKU (Lok Shakti), which wasn’t a part of SKM, met him and announced their withdrawal from the stir. “BKU (Lok Shakti) condemns the way some elements spread havoc in Delhi,” read a letter to Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-at-farm-protest-sites-as-forces-build-up-101611858252881.html
29-01-2021||India||India sends 600k Covid-19 vaccine doses to Bahrain, Sri Lanka||India dispatched 600,000 doses of vaccines as grant assistance for Sri Lanka and Bahrain under its “Vaccine Maitri” initiative on Thursday, a day after Nepal and Myanmar launched their inoculation drives with made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines.Two separate flights transported 500,000 doses to Sri Lanka and 100,000 doses to Bahrain as part of India’s plans to gift the AstraZeneca vaccine to friendly countries in the neighbourhood and key partners in other regions.The supplies to Bahrain marked the first such aid to a country in West Asia, which India sees as part of its extended neighbourhood. Bahrain is home to 350,000 Indians, the largest expatriate community, and New Delhi had facilitated the travel of Indian medical professionals to Manama last year to cope with the pandemic.Indian high commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay offered prayers at Gangaramaya Temple for the well-being of the people of Sri Lanka and handed over the vaccines to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.Rajapaksa said on Twitter: “Received 500,000 #COVID-19 vaccines provided by #peopleofindia at #BIA today (28). Thank you! PM Shri @narendramodi & #peopleofindia for the generosity shown towards #PeopleofSriLanka at this time in need.”Since the launch of the Vaccine Maitri (Vaccine Friendship) initiative on January 20, India has gifted vaccines to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, and Mauritius. “We plan to gift further quantities to Oman (100,000 doses), CARICOM countries (500,000 doses), Nicaragua (200,000 doses) and Pacific Island states (200,000 doses),” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-600k-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-bahrain-sri-lanka-101611857651867.html
29-01-2021||India||Fewer TMC, DMK MPs may attend budget session||Some prominent opposition parties, such as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Dravida Munnetra Khazagam (DMK), may have fewer numbers in the Budget session of Parliament starting on Friday because their MPs are busy with campaigns for assembly elections in their home states of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, according to leaders in both parties.Elections are due to take place in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu in April-May, along with polls in Assam, Kerala and the Union territory of Puducherry.“Our presence will be minimal in the session as most of our MPs are required back home to prepare for the polls,” Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’ Brien said.The TMC, with 34 MPs the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha after the Congress, faces a triangular contest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress-Left alliance in what is expected to be its toughest electoral test in West Bengal.Several Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs were told by the party leadership not to attend the previous the monsoon session, too, because of Covid-19 numbers were surging at the time.Two DMK MPs said on condition of anonymity that their party, too, cannot afford to send all MPs to Parliament on a daily basis at this time because elections are drawing near in Tamil Nadu.The DMK is hoping to wrest Tamil Nadu from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in the upcoming elections. The party is expected to tie up with the Congress, and some local political partiesThe BJP is in power in Assam, and the Congress in Puducherry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-tmc-dmk-mps-may-attend-budget-session-101611857592004.html
29-01-2021||India||Vaccine safe for people on blood thinners: ICMR||Using blood thinners may not be a possible risk factor for coronavirus vaccines and the government is considering allowing companies to drop it as a contraindication from the product fact-sheet, top officials said on Thursday.“The relative contraindication regarding the blood thinners is mentioned in the fact-sheet of both the vaccines and both the companies have written to the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) regarding changing this point in the fact-sheet,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Blood thinners are of two categories- one is antiplatelets that are aspirin, or Clopidogrel and these are not a problem at all; the second is anticoagulants which are drugs like heparin etc. and those patients on these drugs have a much higher tendency to bleed. The only worry is that there can be a local haematoma (blood clot) or local swelling can occur where the injection site is. It is a very relative contraindication,” he said.The fact-sheets put out by both the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers had listed use of blood thinners as one of the contraindications for use of Covid-19 vaccine, which experts believe could have led to a huge chunk of Indians choosing to avoid getting the shots. A family of drugs that fall loosely under the umbrella are widely in use in the country due to rising numbers of people with cardiovascular diseases.“The anticoagulant can be stopped for one or two days prior to giving the vaccine for those on this drug. For other blood thinners like aspirin or Clopidogrel, there are no contraindications, and that will be corrected and rectified in the fact-sheet as soon as the drugs control gives permission for the same,” Dr Bhargava explained.Doctors say use of blood thinners is not a big concern in people lined up for vaccination. “It is like the annual flu shot, and people on blood thinners also take the flu shot. This is not a major concern,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former, head of pulmonology and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Science, Delhi.India has set a target of vaccinating an estimated 300 million high risk population by August. In the first phase, 20 million health care and frontline workers will be vaccinated. Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16 in the country with health care workers getting vaccinated.“As on today 9,000 vaccination sessions are held across the country in a day, which had started with 3,374 on the day of the launch. We track number of sessions scheduled, conducted and beneficiaries vaccinated. And what is the target and what has been the success rate,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health and family welfare ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-safe-for-people-on-blood-thinners-icmr-101611857471941.html
29-01-2021||India||5,000 doses wasted in five states so far: Data||Close to 5,000 doses of coronavirus vaccines have been wasted in some states since the vaccination drive began on January 16, data from five states suggests, with at least one – Tripura – reporting the losses to be more than the 10% threshold that the government has identified as possibly unavoidable due to the scale of the drive.The wastage have largely been due to vaccinators not finding enough recipients after opening vials, which need to be used up within four hours. The problem is particularly hard to avoid since the two vaccines approved in India for use come in vials of 10 or 20 doses.“So far, 1,623 or 11% of the total vaccine doses were wasted as many beneficiaries were not available during vaccination and droplets fall while shifting it to syringes. Another thing is that we need to use one vial within four hours after which it is of no use,” said Dr Kallol Roy, Tripura’s immunisation officer.Authorities addressed the problem of wastage to some degree by allowing vaccinators to call in people who were not scheduled to get doses on a particular day, helping increase turnout to compensate for hesitancy. But, since January 16, only about 55 people have turned up for every 100 selected and invited for a dose during every session.On Thursday, this number was – on an average – 49 out of every 100 in the close 500,000 vaccinations that took place.“When we started the Covid-19 vaccination programme, we had factored in a 10% wastage across the country. We have issued very detailed guidelines to the states and UTs about how to avoid wastage of vaccines. We have made our digital platform more flexible and we have permitted that apart from the scheduled hundred people, the person who is handling the vaccination session at a particular site can add additional people as long as they are part of the database,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan while responding to a question on how much wastage was occurring, during the government’s Covid-19 briefing Thursday. He did not give a number for the losses but said the data will be shared once the ministry analyses it.In Punjab, this number was 1,200 doses, as per the state’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. He said the overall number was well below the permissible limit of 10%. “As one vial of the Covishield contains 10 doses, vaccinators have been asked try to give shots of vaccine when there are ten receivers together,” he said. The state conducts vaccination four days a week and no shots were given on Wednesday.Health officials in Bihar too said the wastage was with within the 10% limit till now. However, wastage of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was more because of its larger vial size as compared to Serum Institute’s Covishield, an official said.In the Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), where the wastage was as high as 25% last week, fewer doses are now being lost. “In case of Covaxin, it is difficult to mobilise 20 health care workers at a time, given that hospital functioning should not be interrupted,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna. Covshield was being administered at 295 of the total 301 session sites in Bihar.Dr Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s immunization officer, said 4.1% doses of close to 14,500 got wasted. “We have issued instructions to minimise wastage,” he said.Of the 194,048 vaccines given till January 28, Odisha lost 0.58% — or 1,125 doses, said director of family welfate, DR BK Panigrahy.Health officials in Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala and Chhattisgarh said there was no wastage.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5000-doses-wasted-in-five-states-so-far-data-101611857411912.html
29-01-2021||NA||Highlights: South African variant of Covid-19 found in US||India's Covid-19 tally of cases crossed 1.07 crore with 11,666 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the national recovery rate climbed to 96.94 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll rose to 153,847 as 123 fresh fatalities were reported, the dashboard further showed.India is currently conducting the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19, administering shots of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, the number of Covid-19 infections in England is starting to fall, possibly reflecting the impact of a new lockdown, but cases are not coming down quickly enough and prevalence remains very high, a large study showed on Thursday.Follow all the updates here:South African variant of Covid-19 found in USUS state of South Carolina reported two cases of the South African variant of Covid-19 virus. Both individuals had no contact with each other and have no recent history of foreign travel, reported Bloomberg.Mumbai records 394 fresh cases of Covid-19, 7 fatalities394 new #COVID19 cases and 7 deaths reported in Mumbai today. Total number of cases now at 3,07,563; active cases at 5,520 pic.twitter.com/5TztFvcskDEU suggests administering Covid-19 second jab after a gap of three weeks instead of twoThe European Medicines Agency on Thursday asked EU countries to administer the second jab of Covid-19 vaccine after a gap of three weeks instead of two, in a bid to deal with long supply gaps, reported Reuters.Paris to suspend Covid-19 inoculation drive from Feb 2Paris has decided to suspend Covid-19 inoculation drive for the first dose of the vaccine following an order by French authorities, owing to the lack of proper vaccine supply, reported Reuters. However, the second dose for those who had been vaccinated before will be administered as decided before.Rajasthan records 85 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalitiesRajasthan reports 85 new #COVID19 cases, 188 recoveries, and 2 deaths today.Total cases: 3,17,189Total recoveries: 3,11,867Death toll: 2,763Active cases: 2,559 pic.twitter.com/UFjOwFdStyRajasthan on Thursday recorded 85 new cases of Covid-19, pushing the current toll of active cases to 2559. 2 fatalities were also reported in the state, the increased death toll now stands at 2559, reported ANI.Tamil Nadu records 503 new cases of Covid-19, 6 fatalitiesTamil Nadu reported 503 new #COVID19 cases, 544 discharges, and 6 deaths in the last 24 hours: State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 8,36,818Total discharges: 8,19,850Death toll: 12,339Active cases: 4,629 pic.twitter.com/euUKd8mvhJTamil Nadu on Thursday reported 503 new cases of coronavirus in the state. The current tally stands at 8,36,818. 6 fatalities have also been registered in the state, the death toll as of Thursday stands at 12,339. reported ANI.1200 officials and staff of RS secretariat get tested for coronavirus before Parliament starts sessionOver 1200 officials and staff of Rajya Sabha Secretariat take COVID test ahead of the Parliament session; none test positive: Rajya Sabha SecretariatOdisha records zero Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive dayOdisha maintained its streak of zero Covid-19 fatalities for the second day straight. The state reported 113 new cases of Covid-19, taking the statewide toll to 3,34,780. The death toll has stayed put at 1,906, reported news agency PTI.India inoculated 1 million people in 6 days, says union health secretaryUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told news agency ANI on Thursday that India achieved the remarkable feat of inoculating 1 million people in just 6 days, taking much less time than countries like US, UK, Germany, Israel, UAE, Italy, and Spain.165 individuals in India test positive for the UK variant of Covid-19The total number of persons infected with the UK variant of Coronavirus reaches 165. pic.twitter.com/hDxKWcEz96Taiwan seeks Germany's help in obtaining Covid-19 vaccineAfter Germany asked for Taiwan's help in easing shortage of automobile semiconductor chips Taiwan requested Berlin's help in easing vaccine worries, reported Reuters. Taiwan has signed deals to buy 20 million doses of vaccine, including 10 million doses of the Oxford vaccine, and is also slated to receive 4.76 million doses from COVAX alliance.165 infected with UK variant of Covid-19 in India, says govtThe number of people who have tested positive for the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 165, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.UK vaccine rollout must not be interrupted, UK minister says of EU demandBritain's supply of vaccines from AstraZeneca must not be interrupted, Minister for the Cabinet Office Michael Gove said on Thursday, when asked if the government would allow shots to be diverted to the European Union.Russia reports 19,138 new Covid-19 cases, 575 deathsRussia reported 19,138 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including 2,897 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 3,793,810 since the pandemic began.China warns US against 'politicising' WHO virus probeChina on Thursday warned the United States against 'politicising' WHO virus probe.Pfizer-BioNTech say their Covid-19 vaccine effective against UK, South Africa variantsPfizer-BioNTech say their Covid-19 vaccine effective against UK, South Africa variants, reports AFP.WHO team in Wuhan departs quarantine for Covid origins studyA World Health Organization team emerged from quarantine in the Chinese city of Wuhan on Thursday to start field work in a fact-finding mission on the origins of the virus that caused the Covid-19 pandemic.39 new coronavirus cases in Pondy, tally touches 38,973Puducherry clocked 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one related death on Thursday, taking the aggregate to 38,973.Made in India vaccines reach Sri Lanka: S JaishankarA dependable partner, a reliable friend. Made in India vaccines reach Sri Lanka now: External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.Philippines authorises emergency use of AstraZeneca Covid vaccineThe Philippine Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has authorised the emergency use of the vaccine against the coronavirus developed by the AstraZeneca company, media reported on Thursday.Regeneron's Covid-19 antibody cocktail effective against coronavirus variantsThe tests conducted on two different variants of the coronavirus show that one of the two monoclonal antibodies in Regeneron's cocktail therapy can neutralize both, despite the mutations, researchers reported.India’s recovery rate has reached nearly 97%: GovtWith a consistent rise in cumulative recoveries, India’s recovery rate has reached nearly 97%. India’s recovery rate is one of the highest globally. 1,03,73,606 people have recovered and 14,301 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours: Ministry of Health78% of active cases are concentrated in five states: Govt78% of the active cases are concentrated in five states —Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal. 77.84% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 7 States/UTs: Ministry of HealthSouth Korea reports 497 more Covid-19 cases, 76,926 in totalSouth Korea reported 497 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Wednesday compared to 24 hours ago, raising the total number of infections to 76,926.186 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death in TelanganaTelangana posted 186 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the total positives to nearly 2.94 lakh while one related fatality pushed the toll to 1,594.70% of our Covid-19 cases are in Maharashtra and Kerala: Harsh Vardhan70% of our Covid-19 cases are in Maharashtra and Kerala. So far, 153 cases of UK variant have been detected in India: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.India logs 11, 666 fresh Covid-19 cases, 123 deaths; tally at 10,701,193India reported 11,666 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, as the tally rose to 10,701,193, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Friday. The death toll rose to 153,847 as 123 fresh fatalities were reported, the dashboard further showed.Flight carrying 1st consiignment of Covid-19 vaccine to Colombo has departedFlight carrying the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine to Colombo, Sri Lanka from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, has departed.11,845 healthcare workers receive Covid-19 vaccine in Punjab's LudhianaAs many as 11,845 healthcare workers in the Ludhiana district have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine so far, which is the highest number in any other district of Punjab, said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday.Flight carrying first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine to Sri Lanka delayedFlight carrying the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine to Sri Lanka from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, has been delayed.New Zealand tightens quarantine as Australia decides on travel bubbleNew Zealand will tighten quarantine rules after two cases of the South African Covid-19 variant were confirmed in Auckland, as it awaits an Australian decision on whether it would reopen quarantine-free travel to arrivals from the Pacific nation.AstraZeneca to produce 90 million Covid-19 vaccine shots in Japan: Govt spokesmanAstraZeneca Plc has told Japan's health ministry it would produce more than 90 million coronavirus vaccine shots in the country, Japan's top government spokesman said on Thursday.English Covid-19 infections starting to fall, but prevalence still high, study findsThe number of Covid-19 infections in England is starting to fall, possibly reflecting the impact of a new lockdown, but cases are not coming down quickly enough and prevalence remains very high, a large study showed on Thursday.Vietnam reports first 2 locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 in 55 daysVietnam's health ministry on Thursday confirmed its first two locally transmitted Covid-19 cases in nearly two months, just weeks before the country's Lunar New Year holiday period, when big gatherings indoors are expected.Mexico reports 17,944 new coronavirus cases, 1,623 deathsMexico's health ministry on Wednesday reported 17,944 new confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and 1,623 additional fatalities, bringing the total in the country to 1,806,849 cases and 153,639 deaths.Consignment of Covishield vaccine to be dispatched from Mumbai to Bahrain and ColomboA consignment of Covishield vaccine, by Serum Institute of India, to be dispatched from Mumbai to Bahrain and Colombo, today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-28-2021-101611797801811.html
29-01-2021||NA||Highlights: Security personnel leave Ghazipur protest site||In the aftermath of Republic Day violence in Delhi, security was heightened at Singhu, Ghazipur border as the government deployed additional forces. Agitating farmers have accused the government of trying to intimidate them and feared force could be used to evict them. In Baghpath, Uttar Pradesh protests came to an end with locals alleging use force by police. While the police claimed that the matter was resolved through deliberations and the protesting farmers were sent home on Wednesday night.Also Read | A wall of security around Red Fort as dust of violence settlesThe leaders of 16 opposition parties said that they will boycott President Ram Nath Kovind's address to both House of Parliament over farm laws.Meanwhile, farmers remained firm on their stand that ‘anti-social’ elements orchestrated the violence on Republic Day during the tractor parade. Spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Rakesh Tikait on said the violence as "conspiracy to malign the farmer unions and distance Punjab from the rest of the country." He has also accused the Delhi Police of showing negligence during the violence. "Someone goes there and hoists a flag, why no firing was done?" asked Tikait.Also Read | At Singhu protest site, a battle of two factionsFollow all the updates here:Police personnel deployed in Ghazipur leave protest siteUttar Pradesh police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) deployed at Ghazipur border since yesterday evening, leaves the protest site in police and PAC vehicles. pic.twitter.com/SSYnnRczdZUP police officials who were deployed at Ghazipur border were seen leaving the protest site in police and PAC vehicles. Take action against those who attacked farmers: Tikait#WATCH| BKU leader Rakesh Tikait breaks down while speaking to media; said, "We will not go anywhere till action is taken against those who lathi-charged farmers."(28.01) pic.twitter.com/welii1I5QYBharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait broke down while speaking to mediapersons and demanded action against people who lathicharged the agitating farmers. Tikait says will remain at Ghazipur borderWe will not vacate the site: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border https://t.co/PsuvFbGJSv pic.twitter.com/l2j9CGJvRTBKU leader Rakesh Tikait said that he will not vacate the protest site at Ghazipur border. Haryana farmers to march towards DelhiFarmers gathered at Kungar village in Bhiwani to start a march towards Delhi tonightProtest at Gazipur border continuesSit-in protest at Ghazipur border (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) continues against the Centre's farm laws.Centre extends deployment period of Rapid Action Force at GhaziabadCentre extends deployment period of 4 companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) till February 4 to maintain law and order situation in Ghaziabad in view of Farmers' protest. Earlier, their deployment was till January 28.BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait slaps a person at Ghazipur border#WATCH: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait slaps a person at Ghazipur border (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh). pic.twitter.com/fhRSbdlhgYBharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait slaped a person at Ghazipur border. "He is not a member of our organisation. He was taking a stick and would have done something. He was misbehaving with media. All those who are here with ill intent should leave," said Tikait.Heavy traffic at Meerut express highwayFarm union leaders meet agri miniter Narendra Singh TomarMembers of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) and BKU (Ekta) met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar today. "We're also hurt by Red fort incident. Govt has assured us that they'll continue with commitments made during talks with farmers,"says SS Bhati, BKU (Lok Shakti).Ghazipur border closedGhazipur border closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is very heavy in the area & Vikas marg, Please take alternate route: Delhi Traffic PoliceWill commit suicide but won't end protest: Rakesh TikaitWill commit suicide but won't end protest until farm bills are repealed, says BKU's Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border.Around 30 farmers agitating at Burari ground moved to SinghuAround 30 farmers from DDA Ground in Burari moved towards Singhu border. While around 15 others have been detained for their possible involvement in the Republic Day violence, ANI reported quoting Delhi Police.'Protest at Ghazipur border to end today,' says BKU leader Naresh Tikait"The dharna at the Ghazipur (border) will end today," said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait in Muzaffarnagar, news agency ANI reported.Administration removed basic facilities including water, electricity supply: Tikait"We'll continue our sit-in protest and will not vacate site till talks with government are held. Administration has removed basic facilities including water and electricity supply. We'll get water from our villages," said Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border.Tikait refuses to leave UP Gate protest siteRakesh Tikait refused to leave UP Gate protest site after authorities asked protesters to vacate sites by tonight. 'Protest will continue,' Tikait said. Administration officials and cops have left the site.Internet to remain suspended in Haryana districtsIn view of the farmers' protest, Haryana government extends suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts till 5 pm on Friday.SC-led committee should be formed to probe Republic Day violence: TikaitBKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait demanded constitution of a committee by Supreme Court to probe the violence at Red Fort and those involved in it. Meanwhile, other leaders said they won't end the agitation, even if police use force to evict them. They are urging farmers to maintain peace even if police resort to firing and lathi-chargeSocial activist Anna Hazare to join farmers' agitationSocial activist Anna Hazare said he will begin a protest over various demands related to farmers in Ralegan Siddhi in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra from January 30. He also urged his supporters to protest at their respective locations.Ultimatum issued to farmers at GhazipurLocal authorities issues ultimatum to farmers protesting at Ghazipur site. They have asked the agitating farmers to clear the site by tonight.West Bengal assembly passes resolution against three farm lawsWest Bengal legislative assembly passes the resolution against three central agriculture laws. West Bengal is the sixth state to do so.Why was no firing done? asks Tikait on Red Fort violence"Someone goes there and hoists a flag, why was no firing done? Where was Police? How did he go there? Police allowed him to leave and didn't arrest him. Nothing has been done even now. Who was the person who maligned an entire community and organisation?" says BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Deep Sidhu, an accused of instigating violence during tractor rally.AAP to boycott President's speech on Friday"Members of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have protested against three black farm laws and will continue to do so which is why AAP will boycott President's speech. We continue to demand the repeal of three farm laws, this is the signature on death warrants of farmers," said AAP MP Sanjay Singh.Locals protest against farmers at Singhu borderCounter protests are being staged at Singhu border by locals demanding removal of farmers from the area. "We want them to be removed because they have insulted the tricolour. Right now we are talking to them politely but if they don't listen, we'll do what the farmers did," said Mohan Bhardwaj, a member of Hindu Yuva Seva Sangh.16 opposition leaders say they will boycott Prez address in ParliamentLeaders of 16 opposition parties issued a joint statement wherein they said that they would boycott President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Parliament on Friday over the farm reforms. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Nationalist Congress (NCP) party chief Sharad Pawar, National Conference (NC) patron Dr Farooq Abdullah among many others would boycott tomorrow's address.Jan 26 violence conspiracy to malign farmer groups: Tikait#WATCH: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait says that the violence that occurred on 26th January was a conspiracy to malign the farmer unions & distance Punjab from the rest of the country. (27.01.2021) pic.twitter.com/SMJH3hq37jBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday that the violence that occurred during the Republic Day tractor rally was a conspiracy to malign the farmer groups and distance the state of Punjab from the rest of India.Delhi Police issues notice to BKU leader Rakesh TikaitThe Delhi Police on Thursday issued a notice to Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and further asked him to explain as to why legal action should be taken against him for violating the protocol with the police with regard to the tractor march on Republic Day (Tuesday).Amit Shah meets injured police personnel in DelhiDelhi: Union Home Minister Amit Shah meets the injured Police personnel at Sushruta Trauma Centre, Civil Lines.These Police personnel were injured in the violence during farmers' tractor rally on January 26th. pic.twitter.com/36ivOGG0I1Union home minister Amit Shah met the injured personnel of the Delhi Police at the Sushruta Trauma Centre at Civil lines on Thursday afternoon.Lookout Notice against farmers’ leaders issued, passports to be seizedThe Delhi Police on Thursday issued a Lookout Notice against the farmer union leaders and their passports will be seized.All Metro stations in Delhi are open, says DMRCThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday had said that the entry and exit gates of Lal Quila and Jama Masjid metro stations had been opened adding that all stations were open and normal services were resumed on all lines.On tractor march violence, Kejriwal says guilty should be punishedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday condemned the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally and said that those guilty should be punished but this incident does not put an end to the ongoing agitation against the Centre's farm laws. "We cannot be a happy nation with unhappy farmers," he said.Heavy security deployment continues at Red Fort, Tikri borderSecurity remained tightened at Red Fort and Tikri border in Delhi after violence broke out during the Republic Day tractor march. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had earlier issued an order wherein it stated that Red Fort would remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31.Delhi Police issue notice to 20 farmer leaders including Yogendra Yadav, Balbir S RajewalThe Delhi Police on Thursday morning issued notice to 20 farmers leaders including Yogendra Yadav, Balbir S Rajewal with regard to the violence that erupted during the Republic Day tractor rally. The Police has asked these leaders to reply within three days, reports ANI.Shah to visit two hospitals in Delhi where injured police personnel have been admittedUnion Home Minister Amit Shah will visit two hospitals in north Delhi where police personnel injured during the January 26 violence have been admitted.Nearly 400 personnel have been injured till now.Centre provoked protest for violence to discredit anti-farm law movement: Shiv SenaThe Shiv Sena said on Thursday that the Union government provoked the protesting farmers to commit violence on January 26 in order to discredit the movement against the three controversial farm laws. Through its mouthpiece, Saamana, the Shiv Sena said "no one will support what happened in the national capital on Republic Day."NH-24, route connecting Delhi with Ghaziabad has been opened: Delhi Traffic PoliceDelhi: Normal traffic movement seen on NH-24. "NH-24, route connecting Delhi with Ghaziabad has been opened," said Delhi Traffic Police pic.twitter.com/HmMBJRYA4lThe Delhi Traffic Police said on Thursday morning that that National Highway-24 (NH-24) which connects Delhi with Ghaziabad has been reopened. Pro-Khalistani supporters vandalised Indian embassy in Rome on Jan 26Numerous pro-khalistani supporters had vandalised the India embassy in Rome on Republic Day (January 26), sources told news agency ANI. The sources added that they had taken note of this incident and conveyed their concerns with the Italian authorities. "Safety and security of Indian diplomats and diplomatic premises are the responsibility of the host government," they said. No bullet injury, farmer died after tractor overturned, says UP PoliceThe Uttar Pradesh Police said on Wednesday that the postmortem of the protesting farmer who died during the tractor march in central Delhi on Republic Day showed that he died of injuries sustained when his tractor overturned. "Yesterday night, three senior doctors conducted the postmortem and it did not show bullet injury. He succumbed to the antemortem injuries which he received after his tractor turned turtle as seen in the viral video. The last rights of the deceased was conducted in a peaceful way at his village," Avinash Chandra, Additional Director General of Police (ADG) Bareilly in Rampur, UP, told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-28-2020-101611797419275.html
