May 1, 2020||India||Govt construction agencies, contractors concerned over migrant workers heading home||New Delhi: It will take at least a week or so to assess how allowing migrant workers to go back to their native place plays out and its impact on construction activities, sources in government and private construction sector said. Some of the officials told TOI that there is an apprehension that most of the workers who are now staying in labour camps at construction sites may prefer to go home at least for some time. They added if there is large-scale exodus of migrant workers, kick-starting work at sites would get adversely impacted. “Labourers who could not go home were ready to take up work rather than sitting idle. They have been speaking about their wish to meet their family members or to be with ailing parents during this time of crisis. Obviously, they would like to return home. You can’t build roads without labourers,” said a senior executive of a highway construction company. Officials at National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also admitted that once labourers go back to their villages, it’s highly unlikely that they would return in the next three-four months. “You need manpower at the site where work is going on,” said an official. Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari had recently said that bringing back migrant workers will be the toughest task while urging factory owners to give priority to provide work to such persons who play a key role in economic activities in urban centres. He had said both government and private players would have to offer something to keep people back at work sites and to bring back those who have left. Officials from NHAI, road ministry and Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said the situation may become critical as they may have to face huge labour crunch to carry out construction activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-construction-agencies-contractors-concerned-over-migrant-workers-heading-home/articleshow/75480243.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 1, 2020||Mumbai||Urgent pleas on the rise for e-access to children, during lockdown in Mumbai, Pune family courts||MUMBAI: Over the weekend during lockdown, a father called up his young daughter for a face-time chat. It was his 15-minutes of court assigned access, twice weekly. The daughter, a tiny tot, around two years old, smiled brightly and after an excited “Hello Papa’’, ran away and then round and round the table where her mother sat and had placed the smart phone. The mother and estranged father now looked on in awkward silence, indulged in small chit-chat about their little one and waited for her to come back to the phone. The couple were abiding by a recent urgent order for online access to the non-custodial parent. Given the prevailing restrictions during the covid-19 lockdown, estranged parents, often fathers, are unable to exercise their physical child access at the children’s complex at the city’s family court in Bandra. With family court’s regular functioning being shut for almost 6 weeks, more parents are moving the family court for urgent access on phone calls or more particularly e-access via video-calls. The family court at Bandra has been shut for more than five weeks and takes only urgent matters via emails. “Most of these urgent matters relate to requests for child access via videocalls,’’ said a court official.  Non-custodial parents and many during the pandemic and the lockdown are struggling to maintain proper contact with their children. “Lack of even phone or face-time call access during the lockdown could lead to further alienation since physical access is impossible rendering such children being unable to interact with their fathers,’’ said one father who had petitioned the family court for such urgent access. Lawyers in Mumbai say they have witnessed a rise in calls from worried parents who had been granted access pre-lockdown. Veteran family court lawyers like Mrinalini Deshmukh, Chitra Phadke and the family court bar chief Sasi Nair also spoke of how they have received calls from parents seeking ways to comply with child access orders. In Pune too, parents have petitioned and got orders for e-access to children, said a Delhi-based advocate Neela Gokhale and her Pune-based partner advocate Shirin Merchant, about two cases. In one case father got “virtual access every day for half hour,’’ said Gokhale. “It is a sensitive issue. Parents have called and enquired about child access order compliances. Some agreed to let children speak over the phone during the lockdown. Am hopeful that some couples may even bond this way and eventually reconcile,’’ said Nair. Deshmukh, said that she received calls too as in some cases, parents were using the lockdown to not even grant email or phone call access. “Access of children is already a usually vexed issue with warring couples,’’ she said and the “lockdown has heightened concerns for some.’’ While it is often fathers, especially when children are pre-schoolers, who are petitioning the court for e-access during the social-distancing times, a mother too had approached the court. Advocate Chitra Phadke said that the child, aged five, was with the father and wife had earlier been granted physical access four days a week for five hours. Since it was not possible to meet, he even before court could pass orders, volunteers to give online-access. The mother has also moved for urgent orders for complete access for the summer vacation till mid-June now, where she can take the child home too. In yet another case, a doctor-father, moved for urgent access during the lockdown to his two minor sons, one of who he hadn’t seen or spoken to for over 10 months, he said. The family court two weeks ago denied his request and observed that the pandemic is a worldwide phenomenon. He approached the Bombay high court in appeal and his plea was heard on Thursday where the court in a proceeding held via video-conferencing granted him three 15-minute video-call interactions in a week with his sons. Another family court lawyer Anagha Nimbkar also added, “I also encourage clients to provide access during lockdown through videoconferencing and calls on apps.'' The lockdown is leading parents to make ingenuous pleas to gain access too. A father made a futile bid before the Bombay HC to gain physical access of his seven-year-old recently during the lockdown. The HC rejected his plea finding no reason to disbelieve that the natural mother of a child would not guard him from the corona virus. The wife had already approached the HC to challenge a December 2018 order of the family court that had granted him weekend access to their child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/urgent-pleas-on-the-rise-for-e-access-to-children-during-lockdown-in-mumbai-pune-family-courts/articleshow/75480234.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 1, 2020||Patna||Cop removed, probe ordered for stopping Bihar judge on UP border for hours for brother's cremation||PATNA: An inquiry has been ordered in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria on incident of making Siwan’s additonal district judge Ramayan Ram wait for around five hours on border even after having a valid pass before he was allowed to travel to Ghazipur to attend the cremation of his younger brother who had died of cardiac arrest. Deoria SP Shripati Mishra, while talking to TOI over phone said that not only he ordered an inquiry into the incident, but had also attached sub-inspector Vinod Yadav to police lines for not letting the judge pass through. “I also ordered a probe which is being conducted by DSP-rank officer Varun Mishra,” the SP said. Incidentally, on April 27 only, Bihar Judicial Services Association (BJSA) had sent letter a to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary via email for disciplinary action against the SP and the SI for making senior judicial officer wait at border even after having valid issued by Siwan DM to travel as he was the one to light up pyre of deceased brother who was practising advocate at Allahabad high court. SP said after inquiry report is received, action for initiating departmental proceeding against SI would be taken. “I had ordered SI to allow the judge to go through after he had contacted me. Actually border is sealed and movement of only goods vehicles is allowed at present,” he said. BJSA secretary Ajit Kumar Singh said though whole matter with respect to disciplinary action is yet to attain finality, however if SP clarified his stand and initiated action against erring official, it’s a welcome step. “Police conceded it’s mistake which is good to know as mistakes are meant to be rectified and not ratified. It should be matter of pride for UP authorities that several from state are serving in Bihar judicial service and all efforts should be made to treat such officers with respect and dignity at their native place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-removed-probe-ordered-for-stopping-bihar-judge-on-up-border-for-hours-for-brothers-cremation/articleshow/75480399.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Punjab: Ropar, Sangrur report 2 cases each||PATIALA: Two persons each in Ropar and Sangrur districts tested positive of the Covid-19 on Thursday. Both cases in Ropar are Nanded Sahib pilgrims’ who had returned on Wednesday. Ropar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said that a total of 60 persons, including 58 pilgrims from Nanded Sahib and two persons from Rajasthan, have reached the district so far. She said samples of 46 persons are sent for testing while sampling of the remaining was being done. She said that two pilgrims had tested positive while 14 have reported negative. In Fatehgarh Sahib, a student from Rajasthan’s Kota district reached so far and had tested negative while 13 pilgrims from Nanded Sahib reached the district on Wednesday night. The officials claimed that samples of all the pilgrims were sent for testing and the reports were awaited. The tally has reached to three positive cases so far in the district. Meanwhile, Fatehgarh Sahib civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said that an 18 year-old resident of Naraingarh Channa village who was a combine operator and was isolated in quarantined at government centre since his return on Tuesday has tested positive on Thursday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that around 146 persons, including 95 pilgrims, bus drivers, conductors and some returnees from Rajasthan have reached the district so far. He said that till Wednesday, 90 persons reached Patiala from Nanded Sahib and Rajasthan and their sampling was done of which one had tested positive and 89 reported negative of the virus. "A 58-year-old man of Patiala has reported positive on Thursday while a 26-year-old man and his 50-year-old mother of Patiala city had tested positive on Wednesday. The patients are isolated in government Rajindra hospital”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-punjab-ropar-sangrur-report-2-cases-each/articleshow/75480506.cms||Bharat Khanna
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Love in lockdown: Chandigarh school helpline open for heart-to-heart||CHANDIGARH: Dying for a free chat with girlfriend or boyfriend, locked down school students have made the NCERT helpline their new loveguru for the period of coronavirus pandemic. Counsellor Neeru Attri, voice on this telephone line in the Chandigarh region, said: "Teenagers call up for free advice on how to have a heart-to-heart with love interest when the entire family is at home and even opening up to regular friends on the phone is difficult. Their main relationship issues are of misinterpretation and miscommunication. There is lot of misunderstanding, sadness, and irritability in new-age relationships.”  Of course, some of the callers from Class XII also share their worries about pending examinations. They don't know how long to keep preparing because the focus and stress of it is breaking them down. In normal circumstances, the tests and stress are over by this time. The next big question is about discipline. Attri said: "Away from school, glued to television or mobile screen all night, busy on the social media without purpose, and then late to get up in the morning, the students feel lethargic all day and don't have their focus on studies."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/love-in-lockdown-chandigarh-school-helpline-open-for-heart-to-heart/articleshow/75480642.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 1, 2020||World||UK is past the peak, says PM Johnson, promising lockdown exit plan||LONDON: Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday Britain was now past the peak of its coronavirus outbreak and promised to set out a plan next week on how the country might start gradually returning to normal life. In his first news conference since recovering from a serious case of COVID-19, Johnson sought to offer hope to weary Britons, but urged them to stick with lockdown restrictions that are hammering livelihoods and the economy. "I can confirm today that for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease. We're past the peak and we're on the downward slope, and we have so many reasons to be hopeful for the long term," Johnson said. Britain has the second-highest official COVID-19 death toll in Europe with 26,771 deaths. That has put pressure on the government over its initial response to the outbreak - which lagged some European peers - and informs its cautious approach towards lifting restrictions in case that leads to a second spike of infections. Defending his handling of the outbreak, Johnson said the death toll could have been a lot worse. "It's thanks to that massive collective effort to shield the NHS (National Health Service) that we avoided an uncontrollable and catastrophic epidemic, where the reasonable worst case scenario was 500,000 deaths," he said. "It is vital that we do not now lose control and run slap into a second, an even bigger mountain." Under pressure to outline an exit strategy from the lockdown, Johnson promised to set out next week a "menu of options" on how restrictions could be eased, but said the exact dates of any change would be driven by scientific advice. He said face coverings may play a part in the next phase, departing from the government's line up until now, which was that there was insufficient evidence to call on the general public to start using them. "As part of coming out of the lockdown, I do think that face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons, but also for giving people confidence that they can go back to work," said Johnson. "You're going to be hearing more about that, and that kind of thing, next week." "KNOTTY" PROBLEMSWith testing seen as key to safely relaxing social distancing measures, the government had set itself a target of carrying out 100,000 daily tests for the virus by the end of this month. The latest data showed that 81,611 tests were carried out in the 24 hours to 9 a.m. (0800 GMT) on Thursday, a marked increase since last week but still short of the target. With the spotlight on the death toll since the official daily number was amended to include deaths in all settings, not just in hospitals, Johnson and his top medical adviser, Chris Whitty, sought to downplay comparisons with other countries. "Let's not go charging in to 'who's won and who's lost' at this point," Whitty said. "Every country measures its COVID cases in a slightly different way so comparing them to one another is largely a fruitless exercise." Johnson returned to work on Monday having recovered after being infected with the virus, which left him gravely ill in intensive care at the peak of the outbreak. On Wednesday, his fiancee Carrie Symonds gave birth to the couple's son. Delaying any paternity leave, Johnson chaired a virtual meeting of his cabinet earlier on Thursday. A first review into the lockdown must come before May 7 and scientific advisers have been presenting ministers with options on how it might be eased. "I will be setting out a comprehensive plan next week to explain how we can get our economy moving... how we get our children back to school, back into childcare ... how we can travel to work and how we can make life in the workplace, safer," Johnson said. Asked whether the long-term recovery plan would involve austerity to offset the huge cost of propping up the economy during the lockdown, Johnson said he did not like the term austerity and indicated it would not be his preferred approach. The opposition Labour Party has accused the government of being slow to react to the crisis by delaying the lockdown and then failing to ramp up the provision of protective equipment to frontline staff and the number of tests. Johnson said he would not minimise those "knotty and infuriating" problems, but that huge progress was being made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-is-past-the-peak-says-pm-johnson-promising-lockdown-exit-plan/articleshow/75480940.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Centre to provide assistance for sanitising public buses, some states seek financial aid to run buses||NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry will provide some financial assistance to state transport departments for carrying out sanitisation of buses run by state transport corporations and bus terminus. The transport ministry will provide little over Rs 50 crore to all the State Transport Undertakings (STUs) for this purpose, sources said. Meanwhile, some states have also sought financial help for running buses under STUs which have been hit hard by the lockdown. In a video conference with Union minister Nitin Gadkari, states including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Rajasthan and Telangana raised the issue of dwindling financial health of their STUs as they sought assistance. Almost all other states shared the deteriorating income from running buses during the meeting. Officials said STUs are staring at steep revenue fall as no bus will be allowed to carry more than 40-50% of its capacity to maintain social distancing for months after the lockdown is lifted. “Most of the ministers talked about the financial crisis. One state said it may face difficulty in paying salaries to its employees,” said a source. According to the latest official report of 47 STUs, they reported a combined net loss of nearly Rs11,350 crore in 2015-16. Sources said the situation has worse in the past four years. While Gadkari has urged the states to clear bottlenecks for free movement of trucks at inter-state borders, state ministers have suggested the setting up of a central control room in the ministry to deal with transport related issues. Officials one such helpline is already operational at Transport Bhawan. “All the states have committed to support expeditious construction of highways to create employment. They shave aid there should be no glitches in the movement of men and materials for carrying out works. Some states demanded more allocation from Central Road and Infrastructure Fund for building state roads,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-to-provide-assistance-for-sanitising-public-buses-some-states-seek-financial-aid-to-run-buses/articleshow/75481218.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 1, 2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic: J&K administration announces Rs 350-crore relief package||JAMMU: The Jammu and Kashmir administration has announced a Rs 350-crore package to mitigate hardships of people, particularly labourers and the destitute, during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. The administrative council, in its latest meeting under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor G C Murmu, has approved the relief package for various categories of people, Principal Secretary of Planning, Development and Monitoring and Information Rohit Kansal said. "We are conscious of the fact that the lockdown has led to hardships to a number of people. The UT administration under the directions of the LG has been implementing a number of welfare measures for labourers, workers, the destitute, etc.," he said. He gave a detailed breakup of relief being provided under different categories. Under income support category, the government has earmarked Rs 46.40 crore to provide Rs 1,000 per month for three months to a varied class of workers. It includes Rs 35.2 crore to around 1.76 lakh construction workers; Rs 1.8 crore to houseboat and shikarawalas registered with the tourism department; and Rs 8.1 crore to tourist guides, ponywalas, palkiwalas, pithuwalas, he said. Construction workers have already been paid for one month through direct benefit transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pandemic-jk-administration-announces-rs-350-crore-relief-package/articleshow/75481434.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Amritsar||Now, vilification drive against Nanded pilgrims||JALANDHAR: A vilification campaign has now started against returnees from Hazur Sahib after a quite a few of them have tested positive, leading to a spike in total number of cases in Punjab in past two days. Several Punjabi netizens are blaming and some even shaming the pilgrims for increasing the threat of spread of the pandemic in the state and are criticising decision of the government to bring them back. Quite a few have even taken potshots at Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, questioning why they were not taking credit for bringing them back. The Congress government in Punjab has announced to facilitate return of Punjabis stranded in other states, however, it is the decision to bring the pilgrims back which is being questioned. Even comparisons with Tablghi Jamaat are being made. Thankfully, several netizens have also started opposing the vilification campaign. A common refrain is that they state government should have taken a decision in advance to quarantine them straightaway while there is no dearth of those pointing out that the Union government should have taken a decision much earlier about their return. “Blind faith has put entire Punjab in danger and entire hard work of people of Punjab has been wasted. Mere vallon lakh-lakh lahnat shardhaluan no te parshahn nu (I shame the pilgrims and administration)…it was better if they were left there at least rest of the people of Punjab could be saved,” posted one Rabbi Braich. “Absolutely right, they have wasted the hard work of one month,” responded one Sunil Dhall. “Masjid people were called Tablghi Jamaat, now what would these fellows be called,” commented one Aman Arora on a post questioning that now no leader was taking credit for their return. Opposing the vilification campaign, one Gursewak Singh Chahal posted, “These pilgrims should have been brought back much earlier…everybody including these pilgrims and lakhs of stranded labourers have rights to return to their homes and in such times everybody would like to be with the family… Hate towards those returning to their places reflects utter insensitivity and selfishness,” posted. Several other netizens argued on similar lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/now-vilification-drive-against-nanded-pilgrims/articleshow/75498570.cms||IP Singh
May 1, 2020||India||Share of under-60 age group in India’s Covid deaths rises||NEW DELHI: More than half of the total Covid-19 deaths in India are among those aged above 60 years, while those between 60-75 years of age are most vulnerable, accounting for 42% of total fatalities, the latest data from the health ministry showed. Though less at risk, those between 45 and 60 years accounted for 34% deaths due to the disease. The death rate was even higher among people with co-morbidities like diabetes, heart disorders and chronic kidney ailments and patients with such conditions accounted for 78% of total deaths. On the brighter side, more patients were being cured of the infectious disease as compared to a fortnight ago. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients improved to 25.19% on Thursday, a reassuring increase over the 13.06% recorded 14 days ago. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusSo far, 1,075 people have died of the disease, whereas 8,372 have been cured, the health ministry said on Thursday. The total case fatality rate was 3.2%, and 65% of deaths were of males and 35% females. The health ministry recorded 33,610 confirmed Covid-19 cases, of which 24,162 were active cases till 5 pm on Thursday. While a sizeable share of deaths was among people between 45-60 years of age, 14% deaths were reported among those less than 45 years. Those above 75 years accounted for 9.2% of total deaths. Though geriatric patients are at high risk, the percentage may reflect lesser number of patients in this age group. While the government did not share the latest age profile analysis for positive cases, the data put out on April 6 showed that the infection rate was higher among younger people with almost 42% cases reported among 21-40 years old, while another 32.82% was in people 41-60 years of age. However, the low case fatality among younger people was indicative that most of them were cured of the infection, whereas those above 60 and with co-morbidities were more vulnerable to infection with a higher death rate even as the number of cases remained low among the elderly. Doctors said the elderly with co-morbidities were usually vulnerable to all influenzas because of low immunity and they needed to be more careful against catching coronavirus. However, the young also needed to be concerned about social and physical distancing as they would eventually move out to work once the lockdown was lifted. The government has also advised people to maintain safe physical distances even within a family to avoid cross infection, particular among the elderly and those with low immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/share-of-under-60-age-group-in-indias-covid-deaths-rises/articleshow/75481761.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 1, 2020||Business||Covid-19: PM Modi signals push to attract firms that exit China to India||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday signalled a major push to boost investments in the country and capture a part of the supply chain that is expected to move out of China as global corporations look to diversify their production base in the aftermath of Covid-19. Modi discussed strategies to attract investments with his top ministerial colleagues, paving the way for a comprehensive strategy paper to be formally cleared by the cabinet in the coming weeks. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe meeting comes days after the PM spoke about the need to make India self-dependent following supply lines for crucial drugs, electronic goods and chemicals getting affected in February when production around Wuhan, the source of the novel coronavirus, was disrupted. Plug-and-play model on cards to woo companiesAlthough the government had been working on a "China plus One" strategy for the past few months, it has gathered momentum amid signals that countries will also encourage their companies to look at manufacturing facilities outside the Asian giant. In fact, countries such as the US are already working to accelerate this drive, with secretary of state Mike Pompeo stating on Thursday that the Trump administration was trying to "mesh the supply chains that both countries (India and the US) have access to", especially in areas crucial for national security. Read AlsoCovid-19 lockdown: Prepare for ‘new normal’, draft biz continuity plans, PM Modi tells ministersPM Modi on Monday advised his ministers to prepare for a ‘new normal’ post the lockdown, asking them to work towards mitigating the economic impact of Covid-19. Modi asked his ministers to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and 10 priority areas of focus on post the lockdown, incorporating socialA sharp increase in wages in China had already prompted many MNCs to look at alternative bases for production and India was seeking to tap into the rush. The global rethink about China being the dominant source of supply in the wake of outrage over its links to the virus has expanded the potential opportunity. A key theme of the plan will be a plug-and-play model in industrial estates that has been in the works for several months, a facility that will allow investors to identify potential sites for locating a plant. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade is putting in place a GIS-based platform, which currently covers around a dozen states, allowing investors to decide their location. A single-window platform is being put in place to allow for all central as well as state clearances with an electronic tracking and monitoring system. "While portals are already in place, the technology issues are being sorted out," an official said. In the Budget, the government had also announced an investment clearance cell, which is a step in this direction. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn addition, the government is looking to provide additional financing, an official statement said, with officials suggesting that the money will be utilised to create new estates and economic zones on the lines of Dholera and Greater Noida, which are part of the industrial corridor. Further, sources said, the PM and ministers discussed the possibility of leveraging the comparative advantage that states have and a renewed attempt at Centre-states partnership. So Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Gujarat, which have a pharma base, can be leveraged to attract more investment in the sector. Similarly, UP, which has emerged as a base for electronics, can also be used for agro-based industries. Watch PM Modi chairs high-level meeting on FDI strategy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-signals-push-to-attract-firms-that-exit-china-to-india/articleshow/75481929.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: 74 more deaths; Maha tally crosses 10,000||New Covid-19 cases in India spiked again on Thursday, crossing 1,800 for only the second time and falling just eight short of Tuesday’s peak of 1,840, while the day’s death toll stayed above 70 for the second straight day. With 583 fresh cases, Maharashtra now has recorded over 10,000 coronavirus infections. The state’s tally stand at 10,498, roughly equal to the next three states put together — Gujarat (4,395), Delhi (3,515) and Rajasthan (2,625). While Maharashtra and Gujarat (313 new cases) reported nearly the same number of fresh coronavirus infections as Wednesday, numbers surged in Punjab (162), Tamil Nadu (161) and Rajasthan (146). While both Punjab and Tamil Nadu reported their highest daily numbers, the change was most dramatic in Punjab, which had reported just 34 cases on Wednesday. The spike was due to as many as 142 pilgrims, who had returned from Nanded, testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-india-74-more-deaths-maha-tally-crosses-10000/articleshow/75482021.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||At 1: 15 ratio, RIL plans India’s largest rights offer||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL), India’s most valued company, plans to raise Rs 53,125 crore through a rights offer at Rs 1,257 a share, a 14% discount to the stock’s Thursday close on the BSE at Rs 1,467. This is RIL’s first fund-raise from the public in three decades and the largest rights offering by an Indian company. Last year, Vodafone Idea and Airtel had come out with rights offerings of about Rs 25,000-crore each. Existing RIL shareholders can buy one share for every 15 shares held, the company said in a release. The issue will lead to an equity dilution of about 7%. RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani and his family, the company’s promoters, holds 50% in the company that is currently valued at Rs 9.3 lakh crore. The promoters will take part in the rights issue by subscribing to shares worth about Rs 26,560 crore to maintain their holding in the exploration-to-e-tailer enterprise, the company said. “An ideal way to raise equity is through qualified institutional placement (QIP) or preferential allotment (PA). But in a QIP, promoters cannot participate and will lead to dilution of their holdings. In PA, promoters can participate but are limited to acquiring up to 5% only. Also, both have minimum price formulas to comply with,” said RippleWave Equity Advisors’ partner Mehul Savla. “Rights issue is the only choice if promoters want to infuse a large quantum of funds beyond the 5% acquisition limit.” RIL also said that if any non-promoter does not participate in the RIL rights offering, then their portion will be picked up by the promoters. This would result in their stake going up in the company even further. RIL said the issue will be structured as partly paid shares and will enable shareholders to phase out the outlay on their investment over a period of time. The rights offering is RIL’s latest attempt to shore up the balance sheet and follows its deal with Facebook to whom it is selling 9.9% in Jio Platforms (its digital services unit) for Rs 43,574 crore. RIL is looking to sell more stake in Jio Platforms besides planning to bring external investors in its retail business. RIL said that as new strategic investors look to partner and add value to the consumer and technology growth engines, the rights issue enables all shareholders to participate in the same. At RIL’s annual shareholder meet last year, Ambani had promised shareholders that when the company achieves its zero net-debt target by March 31, 2021, he will reward them with higher dividends and bonus issues. On Thursday, RIL said that the company will achieve net debt free status before its own set timeline. RIL has a net debt of Rs 1.61 lakh on its books. The rights issues and other stake-sales are towards eliminating this net debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-1-15-ratio-ril-plans-indias-largest-rights-offer/articleshow/75482083.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 1, 2020||India||Day after Uddhav call to PM Modi, Maha governor writes to EC||MUMBAI: Amid growing speculation over whether Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari would nominate CM Uddhav Thackeray to the state legislative council on the basis of the state cabinet’s recommendations, the governor on Thursday wrote to the Election Commission of India urging it to declare elections to nine vacant council seats at the earliest to end the political uncertainty in the state. Koshyari’s letter to the ECI came after Thackeray sent the governor a letter requesting him to write to the poll commission asking it to hold early elections. The CM’s letter was handed over to Koshyari on Thursday by urban development minister Eknath Shinde and Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar. “Since Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is not a member of either house of the state legislature, he needs to get elected to the council before May 27, 2020,” Koshyari said in his letter to the ECI. The governor’s letter also came a day after Thackeray dialled PM Modi over the delay in his appointment to the upper house. According to reports, ECI may declare the elections in a day or two and may even curtail the usual notice period of three weeks for the poll process. The ECI will hold a meeting to discuss the issue on Friday. It is likely to ask political parties to adhere to social distancing norms at the time of the elections. Members of the legislative assembly (288) would be the voters for the nine seats. Elections to the nine seats were originally to take place on April 24, and Thackeray was expected to be voted in then. But the polls were postponed in the wake of the coronavirus crisis and the lockdown. The state cabinet on April 9 recommended to Koshyari that Thackeray be nominated on a vacant seat from the governor’s quota. But the government was told the resolution was not legally valid as deputy CM Ajit Pawar was not authorized to preside over the cabinet meeting where the resolution was passed. So the CM on April 27 authorized Ajit Pawar to preside over a cabinet meeting, following which a fresh proposal was submitted to the governor. In a related development, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, Shiv Sena legislature party leader Eknath Shinde and his NCP counterpart Jayant Patil too wrote separate letters to the ECI asking it to hold elections to the nine seats as early as possible so that there is no political uncertainty in the state. Earlier this week, the governor had told a delegation led by Ajit Pawar that he would secure legal opinion from Attorney General K K Venugopal before taking a final decision on Thackeray’s nomination. If not nominated before May 27, Thackeray would be forced to quit as he has to, according to the rules, become a member of either house of the legislature within six months of taking over as CM. He was sworn in on November 27, 2019. The CM on Wednesday told PM Modi that he was keen to contest the elections, but there was no way he could do so as the elections had been postponed. “Thackeray sought Modi’s intervention and apparently, the PM told the CM he would look into the matter,” a senior NCP minister said. In his letter, Koshyari has stated that the Central government has announced many relaxations regarding the enforcement of the nationwide lockdown, so elections to the council seats can be held with certain guidelines. Meanwhile, a city-based businessman Surinder Arora on Thursday has filed a petition before the Bombay high court seeking directions to the governor to decide on the state cabinet’s recommendation for the CM’s nomination as MLC within three days. The nomination is justified under Article 171 (5) of the Constitution, the petition said. The article provides that members to be nominated on the state legislative council by the governor shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-after-uddhav-call-to-pm-modi-maha-governor-writes-to-ec/articleshow/75482127.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
May 1, 2020||India||EC likely to allow polls to 9 legislative council seats in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission is likely to allow polls to be held to 9 legislative council seats in Maharashtra at the earliest, giving chief minister Uddhav Thackeray an opportunity to become an MLC within the six-month deadline for being elected to either Vidhan Sabha or Vidhan Parishad. The EC, sources said, will take a call on the likely poll schedule at a meeting on Friday morning. CEC Sunil Arora, who is currently in the US, will join the meeting with the other two election commissioners via video-conferencing. A minimum 21-day period between announcement and polling is needed, and a schedule may be announced immediately so that polls are completed well before May 27. Sources said EC has, as a matter of consistent policy, always provided an opportunity to the person appointed as minister, who is not a member of the appropriate legislature at the time of his appointment, to fulfil the constitutional requirement and at the same time allow the electorate to give its verdict in relation to his appointment as minister, by holding a bye-election within six months of assumption of office of the person concerned. Read AlsoMaha Governor writes to ECI, seeks polls for nine Council seatsDays after the Maharashtra cabinet recommended to him proposing CM Uddhav Thackeray's appointment to the Legislative Council, governor BS Koshyari on Thursday requested the EC to declare polls for 9 vacant seats of the Upper House of the state Legislature. A statement from Raj Bhavan said thatThe Commission’s decision to deliberate on holding Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha polls follows separate requests from Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP and Maharashtra governor to schedule the Legislative council polls immediately to enable their completion well before May 27, by when the chief minister is Constitutionally required to be elected to either of the two Houses to continue in office. Interestingly, the Maharashtra chief secretary, in his letter sent to EC on Thursday, put his stamp of approval over holding of the legislative council polls, which were earlier deferred by EC in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “In Maharashtra we have put in place various measures to control the pandemic and are working rigorously to contain and mitigate the spread. We now thus feel that election as mentioned could be held, in a safe environment,” stated chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. He added that the state government was committed to ensuring that the elections were free and fair, held in total hygienic conditions with social distancing measures and other conditions which may be imposed by the competent authorities. While citing that home ministry has already allowed movement of migrant labourers, pilgrims, tourists and students due to lockdown orders, Mehta shared an exhaustive list of measures taken by the state health department to contain Corona virus. “In view of the conditions now prevailing and the commitment of the state government to follow all protocols and directions, I would, therefore, request you to direct all concerned to take effective steps for the conduct of the said elections to the Maharashtra Legislative Council,” Mehta wrote to EC. All the three ruling parties of Maharashtra that wrote to EC on Thursday — Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP — insisted that holding of legislative council polls before May 27 was necessary to ensure that the state continues to have a stable government. “Our Constitution contemplates continuation of a stable Government for which every effort ought to be made by every authority, especially the Constitutional authority, including, but not limited to, the Election Commission of India,” Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said in his letter to EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-likely-to-allow-polls-to-9-legislative-council-seats-in-maharashtra/articleshow/75482184.cms||Bharti Jain
May 1, 2020||India||No PLA invite,says Army, border meet off||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 seems to have derailed the customary border personnel meeting (BPM) between the Indian and Chinese armies along the line of actual control on the International Labour Day every year. “The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) hosts our soldiers at five BPM points along the LAC on May 1 every year. But there has been no invite by the PLA this time probably due to the coronavirus pandemic. We will wish them over the hotline between local commanders,” said an Army officer on Thursday. The BPMs are held on several occasions every year at Daulat Beg Oldi and Chushul (Ladakh), Bum La and Kibithu (Arunachal) and Nathu La (Sikkim) as a confidence-building measure between the two armies ranged against each other along the LAC. The BPMs also serve as an important platform for resolving issues like troop face-offs and confrontations at the local level on the border at the local, apart from promoting mutual trust and confidence amongst the rival troops. “We also host PLA soldiers on ceremonial occasions like Republic Day and Diwali, while they reciprocate on Labour Day (May 1) and Chinese National Day (October 1). The interactions are followed by a cultural programme portraying the rich cultural diversity of the two countries,” said the officer. India and China, after the major 73-day face-off at Doklam near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction in 2017, have worked toward reducing troop confrontations along the LAC with better implementation of CBMs and greater interaction between local commanders on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-pla-invitesays-army-border-meet-off/articleshow/75482290.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||States clamour for special trains to bring stranded migrants home||Bihar, Punjab and Telangana on Thursday joined three other states in demanding that the Centre run special trains to take migrants stranded in the wake of the lockdown in various parts of the country, saying transporting the workers in buses to their home states was not feasible. Earlier, the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Kerala and Chhattisgarh had demanded that railways should be utilised to ferry the stranded workers to their home states. The demand for special trains gained momentum a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed inter-state movement by road to facilitate the return of people who are stuck in various cities for the last five months. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh cited the MHA’s orders and said given the large number of workers stuck due to the lockdown, the use of buses for their transportation would not work. “Estimates indicate that nearly one million workers will need transport to go back to their states,” he observed, adding that the only feasible option in these circumstances was to arrange “special trains, which the Railways may run from point to point, keeping in view the number of persons to be transported to a given destination.” Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi also echoed Amarinder’s views. “The numbers are huge and many are stranded in faraway places like Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai. A bus will take six to seven days to go and come back and practically it is not feasible to bring so many people by buses. It will take more than a month,” Modi said, pointing to the “logistical nightmare” in transporting workers in buses. Telangana minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav also felt that it was not appropriate on the part of the Centre to just allow inter-state movement of workers by arranging special buses by respective states and “wash its hands of the issue”. However, the Centre does not seem to be considering this as an option for now. When asked on the possibility of running special trains, joint secretary in MHA, Punya Salila Srivastava, told journalists in Delhi that the orders issued at present were for using buses. Earlier, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray had demanded special trains for sending back migrants stuck in his state to their respective hometowns. Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, too, reiterated on Thursday his demand for running special non-stop trains for workers. “There are 3.6 lakh guest workers staying in 20,826 camps spread across Kerala and most of them want to go back to their native places. A large percentage of the guest workers in Kerala are from West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. It would not be practical or feasible to transport such a large number of people over such long distances cutting across several states by bus,” he said. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel has also demanded special trains to bring back 90,000-plus workers from his state who are stranded across 21 states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-clamour-for-special-trains-to-bring-stranded-migrants-home/articleshow/75482326.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Railways mulling options, says it’s MHA’s call||NEW DELHI: Railways has been actively discussing several options to transport stranded migrants including workers, students and tourists, though home ministry on Thursday maintained that the present guidelines specify transportation of persons through buses and by road only. Sources said running special trains may be necessary for transporting such persons over long distances as there is also a growing demand for them from state governments. TOI has learnt that top railway and home ministry officials held a meeting on Thursday afternoon. Though there was no official word about it, sources said requests of several states to run special trains may have been discussed. Railway ministry officials said the decision on this has to be taken by the home ministry and they can press trains to service within hours. “But it will be an MHA call and the railways will comply with their direction. There have been discussions with states and other authorities on different options including the protocols which may have to be adopted if there is such a decision to run trains. No decision has been taken yet,” said a source. Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Bihar are among those states that have demanded special trains. On Wednesday, LJP chief Chirag Paswan had urged Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to bring migrant workers and students back home after home ministry issued fresh guidelines allowing their movement. It’s learnt that the railways is maintaining nearly 30,000 coaches, most of which are sleeper coaches, to keep the system ready. “Running trains is not an issue for us. Trains can be deployed within four-five hours. We will wait for the government decision,” said an official. Official said there have also been several discussions on whether only non-AC coaches should be deployed for running special trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-mulling-options-says-its-mhas-call/articleshow/75482357.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||After audit, Bengal adds 11 Covid deaths||KOLKATA: Thirty-three persons have died of Covid-19 in Bengal so far, the number representing a 50% spike from the figure of 22 declared by the state government two days ago. The number of deaths the panel was asked to examine over the last six days saw a spike as well, rising to 105 from the 57 cases it had probed till last Friday. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha admitted the spike in Covid deaths but clarified that the fresh deaths were not reported in a day. “The deaths have not been reported in a day. As far as I know, there have been two deaths in the last 24 hours. The health department is maintaining records. The expert panel has examined the deaths and not (merely) the death certificates,” he stressed. Sinha quoted the audit panel’s observations, saying there was room for improvement in medical record-keeping. “Doctors know the ICMR guidelines. They need to record the immediate cause of death and the antecedents and the underlying cause of death. But the expert panel feels this is not enough. They want front-line doctors to keep a detailed timeline of every case, from the onset of symptoms to the death. Proper documentation is a must,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-audit-bengal-adds-11-covid-deaths/articleshow/75482366.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||1,075 deaths from Covid, over 8,300 have been cured: Govt||NEW DELHI: The total number of Covid cases since April 6 in India has grown from around 5,000 to close to 35,000, and deaths from about 130 to over a thousand. The health ministry on Thursday placed the share of deaths on account of co-morbidities like diabetes, heart disorders and chronic kidney ailments at 78% -- compared to 86% in its April 6 briefing. More patients were being cured of the infectious disease as compared to a fortnight ago — 25.2% on Thursday from 13.1% — the ministry said. So far, 1,075 people have died of the disease, according to central government data, whereas 8,372 have been cured. The total case fatality rate stands at 3.2%, and 65% of deaths were of males and 35% females. The health ministry has recorded 33,610 confirmed Covid-19 cases, of which 24,162 were active cases till 5pm on Thursday. While a sizeable share of deaths was among people between 45 and 60 years of age, 14% deaths were reported among those less than 45 years. Those above 75 years accounted for 9.2% of total deaths. Though geriatric patients are at high risk, the percentage may reflect lesser number of patients in this age group. While the government did not share the latest age profile analysis for positive cases, the data put out on April 6 showed that the infection rate was higher among younger people with almost 42% cases reported among 21-40 years old, while another 32.8% was in people 41-60 years of age. However, the low case fatality among younger people was indicative that most of them were cured of the infection, whereas those above 60 and with co-morbidities were more vulnerable to infection even as the number of cases remained low among the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1075-deaths-from-covid-over-8300-have-been-cured-govt/articleshow/75482388.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||Three cops, quarantine centre staffer test positive for Covid-19||VARANASI: The novel coronavirus infection is still spreading its tentacles in Varanasi with eight more persons, including three policemen, a ward boy of Shivpur quarantine centre and one contact of the infected medicine wholesaler, testing Covid-19 positive on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 60. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The Banaras Hindu University laboratory released reports confirming eight more persons as Covid-19 positive. Now, total number of positive cases has increased to 60 of which 51 are active and being treated at DDU district hospital and SSL hospital. Eight patients were discharged after being cured while one had died on April 3.” Among the eight new patients, three are policemen, including a sub-inspector posted at Sigra police station and two constables deployed at Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost of the same police station, the DM said. Samples of the three cops had been sent to BHU laboratory three days ago, he added. Eight policemen of VMC outpost head had tested positive earlier and are being treated at DDU district hospital. The number of infected cops in district has reached 11. A 40-year-old man of Chandua Chhittupur, who worked at the post office in front of VMC police outpost, had been in contact with the policemen found infected and he was also diagnosed as positive, said DM. A 24-year-old employee of medicine wholesaler of Saptsagar medicine market, who lives in Sujabad area of Ramnagar has also tested positive. The wholesaler, a Covid-19 super spreader, had infected 11 persons, including his four family members, three employees, one customer, two traders and one other person till Wednesday. Now, the total number of persons infected by him has risen to 12. The sixth case was a 50-year-old ward boy, a diabetic, of Shivpur community health centre, a quarantine facility from where samples of symptomatic cases were collected till Wednesday, has also tested positive. The ward boy lives near BHU campus. A 50-year-old powerloom weaver of Jaitpura, who was referred to BHU hospital from Jamia hospital two days ago after his chest congestion worsened, has also tested positive, said Sharma. “The eighth case is a 20-year-old trucker of Gosaipur Mohao, who returned from Mumbai two days ago. He was suffering from high fever. He went to ESI hospital, where his sample was collected and sent for laboratory test and has now tested positive,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-cops-quarantine-centre-staffer-test-ve/articleshow/75478756.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kota students on way to West Bengal take a break in UP||KOLKATA: The nearly 1,600km journey from Kota in Rajasthan back to Kolkata has started telling on the health of several students. According to Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, 2,368 students started their journey from Kota on Wednesday afternoon in 95 buses after being screened. Around 7.45pm on Thursday, the buses entered the Bharat Sevashram Sangha premises in UP’s Varanasi where the passengers got a much-needed break. They are likely to reach Kolkata on Friday, Bandyopadhyay tweeted. Varanasi is nearly 700km from Kolkata and the drive could take 15-20 hours, depending on the stops. The students and their guardians, meanwhile, complained of the heat and discomfort as the buses are non-AC. Travelling through the day along the highways in Rajasthan and western UP can be a major problem during the summer. And some passengers also complained that their vehicles were stopped by local authorities, checked and then diverted through lanes and bylanes, making the travel time longer. “We had some water and food provided by the coaching centres at Kota. There were no arrangements for bottled water or safe food along the way. The buses did take breaks for the passengers to freshen up, but proper food or water wasn’t available. We are ready to pay, but the essentials aren’t available. Many students are already complaining of dehydration and weakness. There is also a lack of communication with the officials accompanying the buses. As charging points are not available, we are unable to keep our mobile phones switched on at all times. We were relieved on reaching Bharat Sevashram Sangha, where proper food and clean drinking water were available,” said one of the guardians. Initially, there was some confusion about where the buses would drop off the students. After 8pm on Thursday, parents of students travelling alone received calls from state government officials, informing them of the drop-off locations. The guardians were also told that the buses would reach Kolkata around 12.30pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kota-students-on-way-to-bengal-take-a-break-in-up/articleshow/75480843.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 1, 2020||Surat||16,709 seize vehicles released by Surat police||Surat: As many as 16,709 vehicles, seized since the lockdown began on March 23, have been released over the past couple of weeks by the Surat police. According to police, they had detained 20,905 vehicles of those violating lockdown order in the city. Initially police issued challan that were to be paid at the regional transport office (RTO) to get the vehicles released. But after RTO office discontinued its routine work, vehicle owners could not get their vehicles release for over two weeks. However, the state government later made changes and authorised police officials to collect fine and release the vehicle from police station. "Earlier there was no space to keep seized vehicles. But after authorising police officers to accept fine, we are now continuing detention of vehicle for strict enforcement of lockdown," said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/16709-seize-vehicles-released-by-surat-police/articleshow/75480231.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bettiah medical college interns strike work||BETTIAH: A day after five migrants who had returned from Delhi were tested Covid-19 positive in West Champaran Government Medical College, around a dozen interns on emergency duty at the MJK Hopital suddenly struck work on Thursday evening. They went on protest against the denial of Personal Protective Equipment ( PPE) and N-95 masks for performing their duties at the district’s premier hospital. In a video grab available with this newspaper, an intern is heard speaking on camera, “We are not being given PPE and N-95 masks mandated by the Supreme Court...already Corona positive cases have been detected here...each of (us)the doctors treat about 50 patients daily...if any of us are infected, it will result in (community) spread of the virus.” Hospital superintendent Dhirendra K Singh said that the situation is being tackled. “They ( PPE and N-95 mask) are scared...We have guidelines to be used in dealing with Corona cases (only),” the superintendent said. He added, “The stock is limited. About 20 patients are tested for samples everyday. Each test requires four sets (PPE and N-95 mask),” he said, bemoaning that the hospital may run out of stock if more of those kits are distributed among doctors on duty. The striking interns raising the issues of their own safety and concurrent safeguard of the community further brought up the issue of general hygiene on the hospital campus. “The hospital wards must be sanitised too,” an intern said. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar was not able to comment till the time of filing this report. “ I am in a video conference with the Chief Secretary,” he told this reporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bettiah-medical-college-interns-strike-work/articleshow/75478626.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: School principal turns saviour for villagers||PATNA: Along with several agencies and government organisations who have come forward to help the underprivileged facing hardship owing to the lockdown, some individuals are extending help to the needy in their own way. Kumari Kiran Singh, principal of a private school in Saran district, makes masks and distributing them among the needy families and police personnel in three wards of Bechala Telpa village. Singh, who also provides dry ration, gloves and soaps to the needy, said she has so far helped at least 650 families. “I saw vendors, milkmen, delivery boys and other shopkeepers serving the people without masks. So, I started making masks and distributing them among these people and others. I learned the art of making mask through an online platform,” she said. Singh aims to cover 100 families per day. “Since I do the job alone, it is not possible to cover more than 100 homes a day. I also provide masks to police personnel,” she added. Singh added, “Since Bechala Telpa village is far from the city area, people are not much aware about the virus. There is no market in the area for people to buy masks.” Singh also trains the local women to make masks and suggests them to wash hands with soap. “It is not necessary to use hand sanitiser every tim. One can wash hands with soap also,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/school-principal-turns-saviour-for-villagers/articleshow/75478664.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 1, 2020||Patna||Online submission of forms starts: Patna University||PATNA: The process of admission of students to various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses of Patna University (PU) for the next academic session began with the online submission of application forms on Thursday. Admission to the three-year UG courses will be made on the basis of entrance tests and to the PG programmes on the basis of marks secured in the last qualifying examination. According to PU’s revised schedule, the last date for submission of forms is June 20 and that for admission to the UG and PG courses is August 14. The induction meet of the newly admitted students will be conducted from August 17 to 22 and their classes will begin from August 24. The UG courses offered by PU include Bachelor of Arts, science, commerce, fine arts, library and information science, computer applications, business administration, mass communication, social work, biotechnology, functional English and environmental science. The PG programmes include Master of Arts, science, commerce, education, law, rural studies, business administration, environmental science and management, biotechnology, social work, women’s studies, journalism and mass communications, library and information science, computer applications and music. The university also offers PG diploma courses in clinical psychology, applied criminology, human resource development, industrial safety management, computer applications, women and child welfare, women’s studies, yogic science and financial services. The course-wise entrance tests, the details of which are available on PU’s website, will be held from June 28 to July 18. Students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper on Thursday, “Candidates will fill the online forms correctly and submit the downloaded copies to the institute concerned. Besides, for the first time, they will have to mention in their forms whether they need a hostel or not. As the number of seats is limited, the allotment will be made strictly on the basis of merit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-submission-of-forms-starts-pu/articleshow/75478748.cms||B K Mishra
May 1, 2020||Business||4,000 points: Sensex posts highest monthly gain||MUMBAI: Boosted by strong rallies in pharma, software, financials and IT stocks, the sensex closed the month with a gain of 4,213 points — its best ever monthly rise — at 33,718 points, a six-week high. In terms of the 14.3% gain that the sensex notched up in April, it was the best in the last 10 years, official data showed. Interestingly the gains came despite the rising number of coronavirus patients in India and foreign fund selling as the country remained under lockdown for over a month. However, to India’s advantage, the price of crude oil, the country’s biggest import item, is at a multi-year low. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head (retail research), Motilal Oswal Financial Services, over few weeks, rise in the leading indices from the panic bottom during end-March may continue in the near term. But investors should be cautious, as the fundamentals continue to be weak while valuations seem to be expensive. “Apart from commentaries from central banks globally, markets would keenly track earnings, trend in coronavirus cases, oil price and currency movement along with global events and development around the Covid-19 vaccine,” Khemka said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/4k-pts-sensex-posts-highest-monthly-gain/articleshow/75480478.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Housing scheme benefits elude AES-affected family in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: There seems to be a long wait for Sukhlal Sahni, who lost his twin daughters due to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) early this week. Sahni, a resident of Raushanpur village under the Musahari block in Muzaffarpur district, had applied for benefits under the Indira Awas Yojana. Rajwara panchayat mukhiya Jayanti Devi said on Thursday that Sukhlal’s name figured in the list of beneficiaries in the panchayat under the Indira Awas Yojana. “The list was submitted to the officials of Musahari block early this year. But nothing has happened so far on this front,” she said. As per the instruction of the chief minister’s office (CMO) in Patna, all people living below the poverty line (BPL) in AES affected blocks of Muzaffarpur district have to be provided benefits under the Indira Awas Yojana. The scheme was to be launched in altogether 196 villages under five worst affected blocks in the district on a priority basis. The Rajwara panchayat chief further said, “Altogether 1,019 people have already given benefits of the housing scheme in the panchayat. A fresh list of 850 people was sent to the authorities concerned early this year, which is still pending. Sukhlal, whose twin daughters died of the AES recently, figured in the second list.” Efforts to contact district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh for his comments proved futile. However, officer on special duty Alok Kumar said that the officers have been instructed to visit the AES-hit villages every Saturday to assess the awareness campaign as well as development schemes. “The DM is monitoring the schemes undertaken in those villages,” he added. Mushahari BDO Ravi Ranjan said that the survey of the applicants was to be conducted before March end. “However, it couldn’t happen due to nationwide lockdown ,” he added. Circle officer Nagendra Kumar was also not available for his comments. Miseries of the inhabitants of Raushanpur village does not end here. The village situated on the embankment of Budhi Gandak has no approach road. As a result people have to reach the block headquarters or the district headquarters either on motorbikes or bicycles. Most of the people go to the local market on foot. A local resident Shiv Nath Rai said the village having a population of around 1800 is dominated mostly by members of fishermen community. “A proposal to connect the village with the block headquarters was sent to the authorities concerned. Bochahan MLA Baby Kumari also raised the issue in the state assembly but in vain,” he said. According to the local panchayat head, at least five villages under Rajwara panchayat have no link roads despite the block being identified as AES-hit. Last year, two children had died of AES at Musahari panchayat alone. Sukhlal’s twin daughters—Sukhi Kumari and Mausam Kumari (4), died at the SKMCH in Muzaffarpur on Monday and Tuesday, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/housing-scheme-benefits-elude-aes-affected-family-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/75478694.cms||Ramashankar
May 1, 2020||Business||In a first, RIL reports 37% drop in Q4 profit at Rs 6,546 crore||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries’ profit fell 37% to Rs 6,546 crore in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, when the coronavirus outbreak slammed the brakes on the Indian economy. This is the first time in the past many years that the nation’s largest private sector company reported a decline in profit. Analysts forecast a high impact on the explorations-to-e-tailer’s run rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 when mobility restrictions to control the spread of the virus reached a peak, throttling consumption of transportation fuels. Debt climbed to Rs 3.36 lakh crore, but RIL declared a dividend of Rs 6.5 per share despite the business disruptions caused by the health crisis. Cash increased to Rs 1.75 lakh crore, compared with Rs 1.53 lakh crore in the previous quarter. Revenue slightly dipped by 2.5% to Rs 1.51 lakh crore, compared with Rs 1.55 lakh crore a year earlier, mainly because of tepid growth in refining and petrochemicals. Operating profit, however, rose 7.6% to Rs 25,886 crore in the January through March quarter due to robust earnings by the digital services business (Jio). “Despite the daunting challenges arising from the fallout of the global pandemic, the company has once again delivered a resilient performance for fiscal 2020,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. “Our consumer businesses further strengthened their leadership positions and recorded robust growth on all operating and financial parameters during the year.” Operating profit of refining and petrochemicals, the two largest earners, declined 28% and 43% to Rs 5,706 crore and Rs 4,553 crore. The segments faced uncertainties connected to a fall in oil demand and prices. Oil prices declined 73%, impacting inventory valuation. RIL said the company has provided for “non-cash inventory holding losses” for the quarter and has listed them as an exception item of Rs 4,245 crore in the financial statements. The company’s Jamnagar refinery, the world’s largest, secured a price of $8.9 from every barrel of crude it processed, marginally higher than what it earned in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Operating profit of retail increased 20% to Rs 2,062 crore, while operating profit of digital services (Jio) rose 54% to Rs 4,104 crore following tariff hikes in December and increased data usage after the enforced lockdown. Though the non-grocery business was impacted in March because of the shutdown, the grocery stores remained open for extended hours during the said period. Operating profit of the media unit rose 473% to Rs 149 crore, while the oil & gas business made an operational loss. For the full fiscal year of 2020, RIL’s profit remained flat at Rs 39,880 crore, while revenue increased 5.4% to Rs 6.59 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-ril-reports-37-drop-in-q4-profit-at-rs-6546cr/articleshow/75480721.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Malnutrition among pregnant women a concern: Report||MANGALURU: A report compiled by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (Karnataka) has highlighted many deficiencies in the state government’s implementation of food security and old-age pension schemes. In their recommendations, the members of the forum have enjoined on the government to address the problem of food security immediately lest malnutrition increase in the state. The report was compiled with inputs from 80 villages and towns across Karnataka. The report indicates that ration for pregnant and lactating women was being provided only in 75% of the areas that were surveyed, while even in those regions where necessary nutritional food items were being supplied, the quantity fell short of the stipulated amount. National secretary of All India Central Council of Trade Unions Clifton D’Rozario said that, in many districts, migrant women who were pregnant were not enrolled in anganwadis, and consequently not receiving the rations they were entitled to. “The state government needs to be more proactive in attending to the needs of pregnant women and lactating mothers, who need to be supplied nutritional food,” D’Rozario told TOI. Taking note of the plight of undernourished pregnant women and lactating mothers in Dakshina Kannada, Ananth Prabhu G, professor at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, has launched a campaign to provide maternity nutrition kits. “We started distributing food packets and kits right from the second day of the lockdown. So far, we have given away more than 500 food kits and in the course of the campaign, interacted with more than 4,000 people,” Prabhu told TOI. Each maternity nutrition kit, comprising dry fruits, ghee, jaggery and biscuits among other things, costs Rs 1,200, Prabhu said. Gurupur is not alone in reaching out to those in need of sufficient nourishment. In Bengaluru, Jagadish R Chandra sought suggestions from a gynaecologist on the proper diet for pregnant women and lactating mothers. He has been supplying food kits to pregnant women from underprivileged sections in Raja Rajeshwari Nagar, a locality in Bengaluru. Online portal sees spike in gynaecology-related queries Following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, Practo Health Insights, a telemedicine platform, has registered a surge of 250% in the number of queries it receives from pregnant women. Questions posed to gynaecologists pertain to a wide range of concerns from complications during birth, birth control techniques, miscarriage and problems that might arise owing to the prevalence of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/malnutrition-among-pregnant-women-lactating-mothers-a-concern-says-report/articleshow/75479216.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 1, 2020||Business||Reduced working hours for bond and forex market extended indefinitely||Mumbai: Amid uncertainty over the lockdown period, the RBI on Thursday extended the truncated trading hours of debt as well as currency markets until further notice. “There is a likelihood of extension of lockdown in major cities like Mumbai or easing of the restrictions in a limited manner,” the RBI said in a statement. In order to minimise risks arising due to the unprecedented situation created by the Covid-19 outbreak, the trading hours for various RBI regulated markets were earlier amended as 10am to 2pm, effective from April 7 till the close of business hours on April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reduced-working-hours-for-bond-and-forex-market-extended-indefinitely/articleshow/75480584.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Trade unions concerned over job losses||PATNA: As the city is all set to observe the International Labour Day on Friday, various trade unions raised concern over job losses, disinvestment and lack of payment. Thousands of workers, especially daily wage earners and migrant workers have been laid off without any notice after the government imposed the nationwide lockdown. Anju (35), who is currently stuck in New Delhi, said Labour Day is just like any other day this year. “I only wish to receive the result of my hard work that I have been putting in for the nation. There are hundreds of people like me who are finding it difficult to eat or sleep due to lack of basic amenities,” she said. Another migrant worker Saroj Kumar said he is not able to meet his daily needs and urged the government to provide him some relief. Sharing similar views, autorickshaw driver Ranjay Kumar said, “Despite all claims, hundreds of autorickshaw drivers have not received even a penny.” Autorickshaw association general secretary Rajkumar Jha said, “The association will protest the government’s discrimination against daily wage workers on Friday.” Trade and industry bodies and economists raised concerns over daily wage workers and contract employees. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said, “Migrant workers have been worst-hit by the lockdown. Be it uncertainty of livelihood or fear of getting infected and not being able to meet family members again, thousands of migrant workers who returned to the state after the lockdown was imposed will not go back to work.” He added the state government should take measures to improve the falling economy of the state. Social scientist DM Diwakar said, “The informal sector has an approximate contribution of 45% to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). Most workers in the state, including hawkers, vendors, artisans belong to the informal sector and have become unemployed due to the lockdown.” Meanwhile, several prominent personalities have extended their greetings on the International Labour Day. Former chief minister Rabri Devi extended her wishes and said: “On the occasion of the May Day, I extend my best wishes to the workforces who work day and night for the welfare of the nation.” Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav urged people to understand the contribution of workers and respect them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trade-unions-concerned-over-job-losses/articleshow/75477757.cms||Archi Rani
May 1, 2020||Business||EV companies tweak product strategy, defer capex to meet post-Covid scenario||Chennai: The electric vehicle industry is preparing for life after lockdown by deferring capex and tweaking its product strategy to focus on new and emerging segments. EV manufacturers including Hero Electric, Kinetic, Mahindra Electric and others have indicated deferral of capex and programmes deemed non-critical in an effort to conserve cash.“We will invest only in the most critical programmes which we have already started and all other capex programmes will be postponed by 2-3 quarters. Some programmes like half tonne delivery fleet vehicle will continue,” said Sulajja Firodia, founder & CEO, Kinetic Green Energy and Power Solutions. “Of course everything is on hold and there will be substantial deferrals in terms of capex. We will use this opportunity to cut out all non-essentials though not to an extent where the business begins to suffer,” added Naveen Munjal, MD, Hero Electric. Even when there is no deferral, the capex spend is modified. “We have not cancelled any capex spends. We have only modified the spend such that the impact of Covid is taken care in business plan,” said Mahindra Electric CEO Maheshbabu. Alongside the capex tweak, companies are also tweaking their business plan. Kinetic, which just rolled out a range of fogging and spraying e-vehicles, is focusing majorly on B2B demand. “We are pushing cargo solutions for e-commerce and FMCG last mile delivery as well as waste management companies,” said Firodia. “Hero, on the other hand, is focusing on affordable personal mobility as well as courier and food deliveries. “With public transport so crowded, people may opt for affordable personal mobility,” said Munjal. “Electric two wheeler batteries can even be charged at home so you avoid petrol pump crowds.” Of course long-term product plans will not be affected but in the short-term product and features will be tweaked to suit the new normal. “The features inside the products will be revisited to make the new way of customer expectations post Covid,” said Maheshbabu.Others like Greaves Cotton, is also focusing on the available range of industrial products that will help in the transportation of the crucial supplies. “On the e-mobility front we are already a preferred partner in last mile e-mobility,” said a company spokesperson. “We have seen successful partnerships with Bounce and Big basket, helping in fleet delivery services and have recently launched a campaign, ‘Kal ko Bachao’ capturing this sentiment. Post-Covid, eco-conscious people will cut down extra expenses and Ampere electric scooters with around 90% savings as against conventional scooters will deliver lower running & maintenance cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ev-companies-tweak-product-strategy-defer-capex-to-meet-post-covid-scenario/articleshow/75480485.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 1, 2020||Business||Former Axis CEO joins Google Pay as adviser||Bengaluru: Former Axis Bank CEO Shikha Sharma has joined Google Pay India as an adviser, according to a tweet by Caesar Sengupta, GM & VP - payments and next billion users at Google. Sengupta said in his tweet that Sharma, a banking veteran, has been a champion of bank-tech partnerships and, in her new role, she would help Google Pay’s strategy in India. Sharma, who left Axis Bank in 2018, was at the helm of the lender when it acquired digital wallet platform FreeCharge in 2017 for Rs 385 crore. She is also an independent director on boards of Tata Global Beverages, Ambuja Cement, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, and Tech Mahindra. “I’m a deep believer in the potential of fintech to create great value for users as well as traditional financial systems. I have had the opportunity to interact with the Google Pay team since the early days of their business in India and have been very impressed by their vision of making payments and financial services simple and easy for everyone,” Sharma said in a statement. Google Pay is one of the leading apps on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) battling against rivals like PhonePe, Amazon Pay and Paytm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-axis-ceo-joins-google-pay-as-adviser/articleshow/75480759.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||Boy sees jailed mom after two months via video||Surat: Nine-year-old Akshay (name changed) was in a jubilant mood on Thursday after having a face-to-face conversation with his mother while sitting almost 20 kilometre away. Akshay, who lives in children’s home, has not been able to meet his murder convict mother lodged in Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) because of lockdown. His yearning to meet his mother was fulfilled by a video app. Akshay’s face lit up just after 10 minutes of conversation with his mother Junnu Sahu, 30, whom he had not met since February 25. He goes to meet his mother at LCJ on the 25th of every month, but had missed the last two dates due to lockdown. The video meeting arranged by the authorities concerned on Thursday, brought comfort to mother and son duo on learning about each other’s well-being. The children’s home applied for meeting. Akshay could hold the video meeting through smartphone after date was allocated by jail authorities.Sahu had killed her husband Puranchand with the help of her friend Pappu Chauhan in Limbayat in 2014. Both were convicted for the murder and sentenced to life imprisonment by a court. Akshay was staying with his mother in the jail until he was moved out after six years as per the rules. His mother chose to send him to V R Popawala Children’s Home for Boys in Katargam. He is a student of class IV."The boy was not able to meet his mother for two months. Personal meeting allowed him to hug his mother. In video meeting, this is not possible, but at least they could see each other,” said Vijay Parmar, counsellor at the children’s home."We had arranged similar meetings of a few other children too who were unable to go to meet their parents lodged in jail. They have a feeling of relaxation after meeting their kin even this way,” said Jayendra Thakor, district child protection officer."We arranged the video meeting between mother and son. This facility allows many prisoners to meet their family members, who are unable to come to the jail due to lockdown," said Manoj Ninama, superintendent, LCJ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/boy-sees-jailed-mom-after-two-months-via-video/articleshow/75480219.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 1, 2020||Business||HUL Q4 net slips 3% on lockdown||TNN Mumbai: Even the short beginning of the Covid-19 induced lockdown within FY20 managed to dent Hindustan Unilever’s (HUL’s) March quarter performance with net profit down by around 3% and underlying volume growth decelerating by 7%. The fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) major reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,520 crore in the quarter ended March 31, 2020, while product sales declined 9.6% to Rs 9,055 crore. Sales of its out-of-home ice cream business and beauty & cosmetics business came to a halt since mid-March. The only other time when HUL reported a decline in volume growth in recent years was during demonetisation (December quarter) when it was negative 4%. Given that the March quarter witnessed only the early period of the lockdown, industry analysts feel the company’s June quarter performance may not be any better. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said operations are currently running at 75-80% of normative levels and manufacturing is mainly for essential health, hygiene and home care products. Mehta said it is difficult to predict how things will pan out after May 3. During the quarter, while beauty & personal care sales were down by about 14%, home care witnessed a 4% decline in revenues and food & refreshments were down by about 7%. However, unlike other firms, HUL increased its expenses on advertising and promotion marginally to Rs 1,175 crore to remain competitive. HUL CFO Srinivas Phatak said, “The disruption in supplies following Covid has impacted our performance. While the macroeconomic context was challenging even before Covid, there has been a greater deceleration in discretionary spends, resulting in the overall FMCG market growth falling below 2%. Yet, our performance has been competitive and we have gained a quarterly market share of 50 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) at a corporate level.” The company said it is re-evaluating all costs so as to continue to invest towards the best opportunities. But Mehta said, as of now, the company has neither shed any jobs nor taken salary cuts. However, he added, “We would not be able to say what is going to happen in the future. We will look at the situation as it evolves,” he said. Phatak said the company’s overall performance for the full fiscal year has been resilient and competitive with strong cash generation “reflecting the strength of our portfolio of brands and our balance sheet”. For FY20, domestic consumer growth was 2% with underlying volume growth of 2%. Profit after tax at Rs 6,738 crore was up by 12%. The board of directors has proposed a final dividend of Rs 14 per share. Given its strong position on cashflows, the company is supporting distributors with credit for a few days while being judicious about how it will deploy credit to maintain supply continuity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-q4-net-slips-3-on-lockdown/articleshow/75480497.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||‘Won’t let down my weapons’||Surat: “Being a doctor, I can’t drop my weapons against coronavirus when many colleagues are fighting a valiant battle,” says Covid survivor Dr Nehal Sakariya, 29, a resident of Ambada village in Navsari taluka. She was who was discharged from Yashfin hospital in Navsari after testing negative twice on Thursday. Sakariya is the first patient in Navsari to have recovered from the deadly infection. About six other patients are still undergoing treatment at the hospitals in Navsari. She is employed as the medical officer in Surat’s Kiran multi-speciality hospital. She voluntarily decided to undergo the coronavirus test after about 12 healthcare staff of the hospital tested positive. Sakariya tested positive on April 22 and was shifted to the isolation ward of Yashfin hospital. Sakariya’s husband is working as the medical officer at the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Ambada village. “I came to Navsari on April 15 and got the news about a nurse testing positive at Kiran hospital on April 18. I talked to my husband and voluntarily went for the testing at the CHC centre in Ambada. When the report came positive, I was broken,” says Sakariya, who recovered after eight days in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wont-let-down-my-weapons/articleshow/75480181.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||Small Paper Mills cry foul over port logistics fees||Chennai: Small paper mills have alleged that over 35,000 containers with waste paper imported from Europe are held up in Inland Container Depots (ICDs) and Container Freight Stations (CFS) in various parts of the country. This, said Indian Agro and Recycled Paper Mills Association (IARPMA), is because customs officials are not implementing the government directive on waiver of port logistics charges during the lockdown period between March 22 to May 3. In an SOS communication to the Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Ministry of Finance as well as Directorate General of Shipping (Ministry of Shipping), IARPMA has stated that small paper mills are incurring heavy losses as they are unable to commence operations despite the government’s nod as raw material is stuck at ports. “The ICDs and CFSs are not honouring the directives of the government and are demanding unwarranted penalties which amount to nearly Rs 1000 crore and are beyond the paying capacity of small paper mills,” the IARPMA said in a statement.According to IARPMA, both Ministry of Finance (Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs) and Ministry of Shipping (Directorate General of Shipping) had directed ports and all principal commissioners and chief commissioners of customs in the country about the waiver of demurrage, detentions and ground rent for export or imports of goods/consignments during the lockdown period from March 22-May 3.“The non-availability of raw material i.e. waste paper is adding to the miseries of small scale paper manufacturers who are required to comply with all the statutory liabilities, payment of salaries besides bearing other heavy expenses like power bills, sanitisation of plant and workers and putting up facilities for workers’ stay in the mill premises. Small paper mills have welcomed these initiatives to contain Covid-19 pandemic but mills should not be unnecessarily hassled for complying with the lockdown norms”, said Pramod Aggarwal, president IARPMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-paper-mills-cry-foul-over-port-logistics-fees/articleshow/75480520.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Sand mafia goons attack tahsildar, driver during raid in Belagavi||Belagavi: A tahsildar and his driver were allegedly attacked during a raid on an illegal sand unit in Shirur village on Tuesday night. Based on a tip off on illegal transportation of sand, Athani tahsildar Dundappa Komar reached the banks of Agraani river in Shirur village. Seeing his car approach, the miscreants rammed their sand laden tractor into the official’s car. The duo sustained minor injuries in the incident. Speaking to TOI, Dundappa said, “We have around 14 check posts in Athani as the place borders with Maharashtra due to which the revenue team has to visit the area every day.” “When I got information about illegal transportation of sand, I rushed to the banks and we found a bike following us. The biker had tipped off the mafia. When my vehicle approached the spot, a sand laden tractor rammed the car. There were around nine persons including labourers. All fled the scene immediately,” he said The district police have made two arrests in the case and are conducting further enquiry, said superintendent of police Laxman Nimbargi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sand-mafia-goons-attack-tahsildar-driver-during-raid-in-belagavi/articleshow/75479086.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||Check posts set up to screen exiting migrants||Surat: The district administration has set-up three medical check posts in the district to screen migrant workers and tourists travelling out of the state. Large number of migrants are travelling to their native places in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha in private vehicles including luxury buses.The decision was taken after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) gave its nod to inter-state travel of the migrant workers and tourists.District collector Dhaval Patel said that three check posts have been set up at Dhamrod, Masinga and Manekpore for the medical screening of the migrants. “The migrant workers will have to clear the medical screening at the check points before they are allowed to leave the district. Those having flu-like symptoms will be sent back. The details including driver’s number, village and district, contact details of the persons travelling in the vehicle, name of the group leader and his contact number among other details will have to be submitted to the nodal officers at the check post,” Patel added.According to Patel, the migrants from states other than these three will have to wait until the respective state governments approve the travel of the migrant people into their territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/check-posts-set-up-to-screen-exiting-migrants/articleshow/75480264.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Boost strength of quarantine centres: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: In anticipation of return of large number of migrant workers from other states, CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked the officials concerned to increase the strength of block and panchayat level quarantine centres in the state, besides toning up the mechanism to deliver health services to the needy. The CM issued the instructions at a meeting to review the coronavirus situation in the state. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar and heads of various departments participated in the review meeting. The chief secretary informed the CM that screening of all the migrant workers reaching the state would be done before they are taken to their destination districts and kept at the block level quarantine centres. How many of the 27.27 lakh migrant workers from Bihar trapped in other states would choose to return following the guidelines announced by the Union ministry of home affairs is not known, but the state is being kept in utmost readiness to handle the situation. The CM directed the officials concerned to increase the strength of block and panchayat level quarantine centres. “The strength should be increased in proportion to the population of the block,” he said. The facilities for screening migrant workers at the borders should also be kept in a state of readiness, the CM said, adding the development programmes taken up to create work opportunities for the existing work force and the additional migrant workers should be regularly monitored. He said the number of vehicles plying on the roads in the rural areas at the block level should also be increased to provide mobility to people at the local level taking in mind social distancing and other guidelines. The CM said creating increased work opportunities for the needy should also be given utmost consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boost-strength-of-quarantine-centres-nitish/articleshow/75478469.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Street vendors turn to selling veggies, fruits||PATNA: Amid the restrictions imposed on the movement of people as part of the Covid-19 lockdown, many residents are waking up to the sound of fruit and vegetable hawkers in different localities of the city these days. Vegetable vendor, Jitendra Kumar, roams around the residential colonies in Kankarbagh area with a cart full of fresh veggies every morning and evening. He claimed, “Since the demand is high, I am earning quite well.” He has even started taking orders from customers. “People often ask me to bring the vegetables they want the next day. Drumsticks, for instance, are in high demand,” Jitendra told this newspaper. Trying to make ends meet, many people, who were earlier attached with other trades, have shifted to fruit and vegetable hawking. Raushan Kumar, a gardener, began selling vegetables after the implementation of the nationwide lockdown. “I have been working as a gardener for over a decade, but had to change my occupation amid the lockdown. Feeding my family is my responsibility,” Raushan, who sells vegetables near the Digha-Danapur Canal Road, said. 52-year-old Narayan, a ‘chaat’ and ‘pani puri’ seller, has also shifted to vegetable hawking because “earning a living is better than being jobless”. He said, “When I heard that street vendors were allowed to sell vegetables and fruits during the lockdown, I decided to grab the opportunity. I earn around Rs 600 every day now by selling watermelons and other seasonal fruits in Kadamkuan area.” Meanwhile, the animal and fisheries resources department would allow registered sellers to sell mutton on pushcarts soon, said district animal husbandry officer, Anuranjan Kumar Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/street-vendors-turn-to-selling-veggies-fruits/articleshow/75477636.cms||Archi Rani
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Corona-hit village in Sitamarhi sealed||SITAMARHI/PATNA: The district authorities on Thursday swung into action and sealed Jhukti Bokhra village under Nanpur panchayat of the district on Thursday after four fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported. The total tally of positive cases in the district has gone upto six. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma and SP Anil Kumar visited the village and took stock of the situation. The DM also issued instructions to the officers concerned to enforce lockdown norms strictly and sealed the villages falling in a radius of 3 km as precautionary measure. District public relations officer (DPRO) Parimal Kumar said that Bokhra village was declared containment zone after four people—three men and one woman—tested positive for Covid-19. While the men aged 32,41 and 42, were kept in quarantine, the woman (38) years was admitted to NMCH. Three accompanied a cancer patient who had gone to the IGIMS, Patna, for treatment after they returned from Mumbai. On Monday, a 55-year-old woman from Pupari in the district had tested positive followed by a youth of Nanpur, who had returned from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. “The four positive patients belonged to one family,” a senior health department official said. In West Champaran, five members of a family belonging to Yogapatti area tested positive on Wednesday. The district authorities have initiated preventive measures in the containment zone. Houses were being sanitized while people have been asked to remain indoors and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-hit-village-in-sitamarhi-sealed/articleshow/75478582.cms||Shyam Kishore Singh
May 1, 2020||Business||SC tells RBI to implement moratorium in letter & spirit||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ensure that its circular on the three-month moratorium on loan repayment between March 1 and May 31 is implemented in its letter and spirit as it appears that banks are not extending the benefit to borrowers. The apex court told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that it appears that the benefit given by the RBI is not been extended to borrowers. The plea was made that since the March 27 circular was not being implemented in letter and spirit, it should be set aside. However, a bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, which took up as many as four PILs related to the RBI circular through video-conferencing, said since the petitioners are not aggrieved parties, therefore it is not interfering with the circular. “ we direct the RBI to ensure implementation of the circular dated March 27, 2020 in its letter and spirit,” the bench said, in its order in one of the PIL filed by Kamal Kumar Kalia. During the hearing, the bench asked petitioner’s advocate Saju Jacob that how much loan did the petitioner had taken as none of the aggrieved person have come forward. The counsel replied that he is not involved in any loan and is only a PIL petitioner. The bench said that there has to be an aggrieved party as it is a policy decision and meant for those, who have taken a loan. Mehta replied that the circular applies to the borrowers and urged the court to direct for consideration of PIL as representation to the RBI. The bench said that there should be some guidelines so that the benefit is extended to the borrowers by the banks. The bench refused to entertain three other PILs related to the March 27 circular after finding that none of the petitioner has taken a loan. and is aggrieved party. On March 27, the RBI had issued a slew of measures to check financial impact of the nationwide lockdown and had issued a circular giving liberty to all banks and financial institutions to allow a moratorium of three months on payment of instalments in respect of all term loans outstanding as on March 1, subject to the borrower making such a request. It had said that repayment schedule for such loans as also the residual tenor would be shifted across the board by three months after the moratorium period.Interest shall continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loans during the moratorium period, the RBI had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-tells-rbi-to-implement-moratorium-in-letter-spirit/articleshow/75480744.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||KTC buses ferry 42 Gujarati tourists stranded in Goa||PANAJI: Goa is planning to send buses to other states to pick up stranded Goans and to also ferry migrants or tourists stranded in Goa. Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC), managing director Venancio Furtado said that the state government has asked other state authorities to deploy buses. “We have interstate buses in our fleet, so we can do it. The vehicles will be operated following social distancing guidelines. We are only awaiting the orders to come from them so that we can carry out the service.” Furtado said. Forty-two tourists who had come from different parts of Gujarat prior to the lockdown were stranded in Goa, have now been ferried back home. The tourists sought permission from the district collectors of their respective jurisdictions to leave for Gujarat using KTC’s services. A list of the persons travelling was prepared and passengers’ identification was confirmed by Gujarat authorities. Following which, they took KTC’s consent and issued travel permits. The tourists were dropped off at Vashi, Surat and Ahmedabad. The bus left from Goa at 12.30pm on Wednesday, arrived in Vashi on Thursday morning and Ahmedabad by afternoon. “Our duty is to provide services, irrespective of whether it is to ferry locals from one place to another or ensure that people in distress reach their home safely,” Furtado said. He added that if there are Goans stranded in Mumbai, Pune or other locations, they can furnish details and apply for a permit to return to Goa. India has been in lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus. When the lockdown was announced, with barely four hours’ notice, many people who had come to Goa for a visit or are living here as migrant workers found themselves stranded. With borders sealed and interstate transport suspended soon after, they were left with no choice but to stay in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-ferry-42-gujarati-tourists-stranded-in-goa/articleshow/75481098.cms||Nida Sayed
May 1, 2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani to forgo entire salary, senior executives to take 30-50% pay cut||NEW DELHI: RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani will forgo his entire salary, while the company’s board members and senior leaders will take a 30-50% cut in compensation “until the impact of Covid-19 abates”. Ambani had capped his salary at Rs 15 crore since fiscal 2009 even as remunerations of RIL directors rose in subsequent financial years. RIL said its chairman voluntarily decided to forgo his salary until the “company and all its businesses are fully back to their earnings potential”. The company’s hydrocarbon business has been adversely impacted following the lockdown induced by Covid-19. In a communique to employees, RIL said executives earning more than Rs 15 lakh annually will see their pay reduced by 10% from April. The company further said that it has deferred cash bonus and performance-linked incentives that are otherwise paid in the first quarter of a fiscal year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mukesh-ambani-to-forgo-entire-salary-sr-execs-will-take-30-50-pay-cut/articleshow/75480700.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 1, 2020||Patna||Construction work resumes at city airport after a month||PATNA: Work on development of a new terminal building at Jaya Prakash Narayan International Airport here resumed after nearly a month on Wednesday amid the Covid-19 scare. Officials said the workers were maintaining social distancing norms and taking all precautionary steps while carrying out the work. An airport official said nearly 51% work on cargo complex, technical block, fire station, air traffic control tower and multi-level car parking has been completed so far. These auxiliary buildings are likely to become operational by March 2021. Two floors of G+5 multi-level car parking are also complete. Apart from the new terminal building, work has also resumed on the extended areas of the existing terminal building, which will have security hold area, check-in counters, X-ray baggage machines, frisking booths, shopping outlets, retail segments and lounge facility. Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi said the construction companies have been asked to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) based on guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. “The workers and engineers have been provided masks, gloves, plastic cover and hand sanitizers. Other precautionary measures like disinfecting the airport premises and thermal screening of employees have also been taken,” he said. According to the Centre’s SOP for construction work, the airport management is required to provide transportation, accommodation and medical facilities to the workers. “The project may get delayed by few months due to shortage of workers, days lost due to lockdown and slow pace of work on account of social distancing. There might also be some issues in procuring the materials and equipment for the construction work,” another Patna airport official said. The Airports Authority of India (AAI), Patna has set the target of completing the construction the two-storey terminal building by October 22. The Centre has already allocated Rs 1,216 crore for the construction of the new terminal which will have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/construction-work-resumes-at-city-airport-after-a-month/articleshow/75477726.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 1, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav offers 2,000 buses for stranded people||PATNA: A day after Union ministry of home affairs allowed interstate movement of stranded people, opposition parties in the state exerted pressure on Nitish Kumar government to take immediate steps to bring back lakhs of migrant workers and tens of hundreds of students stranded in other states. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav even offered 2,000 buses to the state government to bring back the stranded people. “The opposition is giving 2,000 buses to the state government. Just take them and bring back our brothers. You can take credit for it and we don’t have any objection, but please do something on urgent basis. This is not the time to think, but to act,” Tejashwi said in a message to the CM. RJD chief Lalu Prasad also launched a scathing attack on the state government. Citing a couplet of famous poet Kabir, Lalu tweeted, “The treatment being meted by this cruel government with sons and daughters of Bihar, the same treatment will be given in return to this government by crores of these saddened people (sic).” Lalu, who is serving jail terms in fodder scam cases, has been undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi since August 2018 and his official Twitter handle is managed by his family and close aides with his consultation. JAP (L) chief and former RJD MP Pappu Yadav also claimed that he arranged 30 buses at Kota for bringing stranded students back to Bihar. “Bihar government doesn’t have resources, but I am fully committed to bringing back stranded people. I have made 30 buses available in Kota to bring back our students. I also request Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to sanitise the buses and make arrangements for safe journey of students,” Pappu tweeted. Congress’s Bihar unit president Madan Mohan Jha also criticised the state government for delay in bringing back stranded people. “Now that the Centre has allowed interstate movement of stranded people, there is no point of making further delay in bringing back migrant workers and students from other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-offers-2000-buses-for-stranded-people/articleshow/75478549.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||Migrant workers want special trains||Surat: Despite his repeated attempts, Srikant Yadav, a migrant textile worker from Pandesara has not been able to get any vehicle to transport him and 60 other people to his hometown Darbhanga district in Bihar. Private bus owners are refusing as they are already as their buses are already booked. In spite of the MHA nod, these workers are not being able to travel home owing to lack of vehicles to travel to their native places from Surat amid the lockdown. “There is a waiting list of 20 days for private buses in Surat, while the operators are asking us to deposit advance money to book the buses,” said Nirmal Srivastava, who has his home in Deoria district inUP. Sources said that there are about 500 private luxury buses in the city and majority of them have been booked by the migrant workers. These buses allow only 56 people to board in accordance with the government’s travel guidelines. Leader of luxury bus operators association in Surat, Ashit Patel said, “Those who are yet to find buses, will have to wait for their turn. All our buses going towards Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh will take at least five days to return to Surat after dropping off their passengers.” Leaders of various associations including Bihar Vikas Parishad (BVP) have raised demand for running of special trains from Surat to ferry the stranded migrant workers to their homes. Dharmendra Singh, vice-president of Bihar Vikas Parishad (BVP) told TOI, “City has 2.5 lakh migrant workers from Bihar and many of them are unable to pay the exorbitant bus fares. We have requested the Central Government to run special trains to Gaya, Darbhanga, Patna, and Bhaghalpur from Surat.” Lalit Sharma, president of Textile Yuva Brigade said, “We have urged the central government to facilitate special non-stop trains as only luxury buses alone will not be able to ferry the huge number of Bihari workers from Surat.” Echoing the same sentiment, Bhagirath Bahera, vice-president of Surat Odiya Welfare Association said that trains will benefit many poor Odiya workers stranded in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-workers-want-special-trains/articleshow/75480251.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid-19 man who escaped from isolation found dead on NCH campus||SURAT: A 50-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who had mysteriously gone missing from the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on April 28, was found dead on the campus of the hospital on Thursday. The body of Bhagwan Rana, a resident of Maan Darwaja tenement, was found near the postmortem room late on Wednesday evening. "The hospital was informed about an unidentified body lying on the campus on late in the evening. We informed police and they confirmed after verification on Thursday that the body was of Rana," said Ketan Naik, resident medical officer at NCH. NCH authorities said that Rana had succumbed to coronavirus infection. Rana had tested positive on April 21 and since then he was admitted in the isolation ward. But somehow, he went missing on April 28 at around 11am after which NCH authorities filed a report with Khatodara police station. NCH officials and police had checked the CCTV footages of the hospital, but they failed to find out how he escaped and where all did he go for nearly ov er 24 hours. "The body was sent for cremation since postmortem on Covid-19 patients is not required. There are are no injury marks on the body or any signs of suicide," said Naik. The body will be cremated by volunteers of Ekta Trust that provides cremation service to Covid19 patients since all family members of Rana are qurantined. The waiting area under the tin roof outside post-mortem room was sanitized by health team. Maan Darwaja tenement in Limbayat zone is the hotspot of Covid-19. Out of the total 231 positive cases reported in this zone, around 90% are from Maan Darwaja tenement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-man-who-escaped-from-isolation-found-dead-on-nch-campus/articleshow/75480202.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||RBI relief for loans outside SLF-MF too||The RBI on Thursday extended regulatory relief to all banks, including those deploying their own resources, to extend liquidity support to mutual funds under the Special Liquidity Facility for MFs (or SLF-MF) scheme. Earlier in the week, the RBI had announced the Rs 50,000-crore SLF-MF scheme to bail out the funds facing redemption pressure. The facility was announced in the backdrop of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund deciding to shut several schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-relief-for-loans-outside-slf-mf-too/articleshow/75480657.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||Doubling time improves to 12 days||Surat: There is some respite for Surat that has been battling an acceleration in number of Covid-19 cases.The percentage of patients who have recovered has increased to 11.11%, likely the highest among the three major cities including Ahmedabad and Vadodara, which account for 90% of Gujarat’s Covid-19 cases.The city has witnessed en masse discharge of patients over the last few days. On Thursday, 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the New Civil Hospital (NCH) after their two consecutive reports tested negative. All the patients were asymptomatic and were under observation at the Covid care centre at Samras Hostel.Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said while the recovery rate has improved drastically, the time taken for cases to double has also increase to 12 days now from 3-4 days. The case fatality rate has reduced from 10% to 4.4% over the last few days."We are increasing the testing numbers and this will help arresting the virus spread. We are focusing on slum areas through 26 fever clinics In order to improve hygiene practices, we have placed 87 hand wash basins at the entry and exit points at red zones,'' he said.Meanwhile, the death toll in the city due to coronavirus touched 24 with three more patients dying in in the last 24 hours ending Thursday evening.Suleiman Shaikh, 48, a resident of Maan Darwaja tenement, died late Wednesday night. He was suffering from kidney disease and admitted to NCH on April 20. Another patient, Sunil Bajaj, 38, a resident of Ramnagar in Rander, was admitted on April 25. He too was having kidney disease. Health officials said that about 16 fresh positive cases were reported from the city on Thursday. The total positive cases have gone up to 594.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doubling-time-improves-to-12-days/articleshow/75480152.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||No HC relief in -ve oil price case||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Thursday found no urgency in a plea by brokers Motilal Oswal Financial Services and others who had challenged an April 21 MCX Clearing Corporation circular that had fixed the due date rate of crude oil futures contract at Rs -2,884 per barrel. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, who heard the matter via video-conferencing, adjourned it to the first week of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-hc-relief-in-ve-oil-price-case/articleshow/75480540.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district records 1st Covid-19 death||KOLHAPUR: The district registered its first Covid-19 death on Thursday after a 60-year-old man from Ichalkaranji succumbed to the infection. Kolhapur district health officer (DHO) Yogesh Sale said that the patient was suffering from comorbid conditions like diabetes and other respiratory problems. The man tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20 and was admitted to the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital at Ichalkaranji. His respiratory problem continued, following which he was transferred to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital. The man was on a ventilator most of the time and had developed septicemia. He eventually succumbed 4.20pm on Thursday. Notably, the man’s grandchild too had contracted the infection and is undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Sale said that they could not clearly identify the source of the infection as the deceased had no travel history. However, his son had a travel history from Baramati and there is a possibility that the infection may have transferred from him. His son had tested negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, a 36-year-old man from the Kanan Nagar area of the city, who has a history of travelling from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.As per preliminary information, he travelled in private trucks and has also been diagnosed with typhoid. He was admitted to the CPR on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-records-1st-covid-19-death/articleshow/75480131.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Magadh University staff to receive revised pay: VC||GAYA: Teaching as well as non-teaching employees of Magadh University (MU) will be getting revised pay as per the recommendations of the seventh pay commission from the April, this year. MU vice- chancellor (VC) Prof Rajendra Prasad said that he has issued necessary instructions in this regard and the university officials have been asked to submit salary bill in the revised scale. “The payment will be made in the next few days,” said the VC. The decision to grant the revised pay will benefit more than 1700 employees, including about 500 teachers working in the two dozen postgraduate (PG) departments, 19 constituent and one government-funded minority college. “On an average, emoluments of the beneficiary employees will go up by more than 20%. Pay fixation of the university employees in the newscale has already been done and as such there is no technical hitch in the smooth implementation of the revised scale,” the VC said. Welcoming the decision to implement revised pay scale, MU Postgraduate Teachers’ Association president Sushil Kumar said at a time when the university fraternity was engaged in developing alternate teaching modes, the pay hike has come as the much-needed morale booster. Asked about the progress of e-learning programme introduced by the university in the wake of the lockdown and minimisation of teaching loss, the VC said that the program has been taken in all seriousness and the results have been encouraging. “The problem is more serious in subjects requiring lab work and classical subjects like Sanskrit, Pali, Persian and to some extent Hindi and Urdu too,” said the VC. “There are about 3 lakh students on the university’s rolls and as such online exam was not the option,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/magadh-university-staff-to-receive-revised-pay-vc/articleshow/75478727.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata traders tweak business models, look at doorstep delivery options||KOLKATA: Standalone shops as well as retail and wholesale markets in Kolkata are reworking their business models to adjust to the lockdown norms. Instead of reopening the brick and mortar stores, traders of non-essential commodities are looking at direct delivery to customers, either to their homes or at a mutually agreeable point. The state has already given its nod to this mode of conducting business. “Instead of customers coming to shops, we will now take the goods to their homes,” Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations president Sushil Poddar told TOI. According to traders, there is pent-up demand for hardware goods, textile products, books and stationery, utensils, spare parts for automobiles, parts for computers, cellphones, plumbing components and containers. Traders have been getting multiple calls from customers since shops shut on March 19. With customers initially focusing on stocking food at home, supply and sale of these goods had come to a halt. “We have been receiving calls from all across the city and beyond from customers and small traders who say there is a demand and that supply should resume. We are, therefore, looking at segregated supply of merchandise from wholesale points to retail points or to the customers’ doorsteps. This model can work without full-scale store operation. Business can resume with a skeletal workforce and strict adherence to social distancing norms,” explained Poddar. According to the government order, only standalone, neighbourhood kirana stores, book stores, paint shops, mobile recharge and repairing shops, and hardware stores will be allowed to operate from Monday. However, without the wholesale trade, these stores will exhaust their stock in days. This is why the wholesale trade needs to function. “Under the current circumstances, when our staff cannot come, when customers cannot reach us, it is better to reach out customers. Since the standalone neighbourhood shops are parts of our family, we can sell things through them. This would help us stay afloat and look after our staff,” said Arvind Singh, a wholesaler of electronic goods. Amid the confusion of the central government notification for opening shops and the state’s reluctance over compromising social distancing norms in red zones, traders on Wednesday opened the back-end supply chain of non-essential merchandises to retailers. Traders feel it may not be safe or viable to open shops without adequate staff or buyers. “We are asking retailers of make specific appointments with wholesalers so there is no crowding. The retailer will come at the appointed time, pick up his merchandise and leave. This will also add to efficiency of the system without affecting the supply chain,” said a wholesaler at Old China Bazar. Some cellular service outlets and repair shops, like tyre repair shops, refrigerator and AC repair stores and shops that sell spectacles, have already resumed business in non-containment areas of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-tweak-biz-models-look-at-doorstep-delivery-options/articleshow/75480850.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 1, 2020||Patna||65-year-old, minor beat deadly virus with grit||PATNA: Busting the common myth that elderly people and kids are more vulnerable to coronavirus, a 65-year-old from Bhagalpur and an 11-year-old from Siwan have won the fight against Covid-19. The duo claimed that their willpower and the availability of proper healthcare facilities helped them stay strong. Coronavirus has infected over 400 people in Bihar, of whom two died and 65 recovered. 65-year-old Bijoy Kejriwal defeated Covid-19 in the face of high mortality rate in the older population globally due to the infection. The diabetic was discharged from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) in Bhagalpur on April 12. His son, Ankit Kejriwal, told this newspaper on Thursday that Bijoy thought the 11-day quarantine period was no less than being in jail and thanked the doctors for giving him a new lease of life. “Dad was depressed and is still recovering from that phase after being discharged. Youngsters can be active on social media platforms, watch films or play games on smartphones, but he is not tech-savvy. The only saviour was a television set in his ward that helped him kill time,” Ankit said and added, “The JNMCH medical staff gave him a special diet plan and encouraged him to do yoga to keep stress at bay.” Bijoy had returned to Bhagalpur from the United Kingdom via Kolkata on March 18 and tested positive on April 2. Another patient, 11-year-old Sahana Khatoon, was discharged from a Siwan hospital on April 28 after spending 19 days in an isolation ward. She had come in contact with a close relative, who returned from Oman and tested positive for coronavirus on March 31. Her sample was collected by a team of health experts and she tested positive on April 9. Sahana said, “I was really scared when my second test was positive, but I made up my mind to defeat the virus. I ate food items to boost my immunity and consequently, my third and fourth reports came negative.” During her quarantine period, Sahana prayed to God, watched films and sketched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/65-year-old-minor-beat-deadly-virus-with-grit/articleshow/75478428.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 1, 2020||Business||Reliance Industries to hive off oil, chemicals business||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) will be transferring the oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business to a new entity, named Reliance O2C Ltd, ahead of inducting Saudi Aramco as a minority partner in the unit. The transfer is subject to the company law tribunal’s approval. RIL said on Thursday that Saudi Aramco’s proposed purchase of a 20% stake in the O2C unit for $15 billion is on track, after it missed the deadline to close the transaction by March. There have been concerns among investors and analysts on the future of the RIL-Aramco deal following the crash in oil prices triggered by Covid-19. RIL will be transferring the O2C business consisting of refining, petrochemicals, fuel retail and aviation fuel, together with its assets and liabilities, on a slump sale basis. Slump sale means transfer of a division of a company for a lump sum without assigning any values to individual assets and liabilities of the entity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-to-hive-off-oil-chemicals-business/articleshow/75480516.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 1, 2020||Patna||Non-Covid death rate falls amid lockdown in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar has seen a sharp fall in the number of deaths due to accidents, homicide, non-covid ailments and suicide following the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The number of deaths related to respiratory diseases has also fallen drastically owing to improvement in air quality, according to city hospitals. According to figures shared by the state police ADG (headquarters), Jitendra Kumar, the number of deaths in road accidents between April 1 to April 15 plummeted by 66%. “Compared to last year’s data, the number of deaths related to road accidents has drastically gone down this year in the first two weeks of April. Similarly, the number of murder cases during these 15 days dropped by 26%,” Kumar said. Senior traffic police officials in Patna conceded that fatalities due to road accidents have drastically come down in the last one month because of the strict lockdown being enforced in the city. City traffic superintendent Amarkesh D said road accidents after the lockdown have reduced by at least 80%-85%. “As the lockdown has put a break on unnecessary movement of vehicles, the number of people dying due to road accidents has significantly decreased,” he said. Doctors and health officials at various hospitals attributed better air quality as one of the main reasons behind fewer deaths in the city. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) superintendent Dr Sachidanand Kumar said air and water pollution lead to large number of deaths. “Most people suffer from respiratory problems because of the city’s bad air quality index (AQI). Now that the AQI level has improved and people are staying indoors, their health conditions have also improved following which the number of deaths has decreased,” he said. He added: “Road accidents and murder cases too have been coming in fewer numbers.” A strong indicator of the low death rate amid the lockdown is the low number of cremations taking place in the city. Officials at crematoriums said they are receiving fewer dead bodies after the lockdown. Arti Devi, in-charge at the Gulbigha crematorium, who stays on duty for around 10 hours, used to see at least 10-11 dead bodies on a daily basis. “It is something unbelievable for me as I have never seen such a drop in number of cremations. For the last few weeks, hardly two or three dead bodies are arriving at the Ghat for the last rites,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/non-covid-death-rate-falls-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75477605.cms||Archi Rani
May 1, 2020||Business||After Facebook, more global companies eyeing Jio stake: RIL||MUMBAI: A week after Reliance Industries (RIL) inked a deal to sell 9.9% in Jio Platforms to Facebook for Rs 43,574 crore, the company said on Thursday that it has received a show of interest from other global investors too for a similar sized transaction. “This establishes the attractiveness of Jio Platforms to the world and is a strong validation of RIL’s capability to conceive large-scale disruptive greenfield businesses,” the company said. RIL launched Jio Platforms - described by chairman Mukesh Ambani as the world’s largest startup- in 2016. Facebook’s investment, assigning a valuation of Rs 4.62 lakh crore to Jio Platforms, will become a benchmark for any further stake sale in the Indian digital services company. RIL’s plan is to eventually list Jio Platforms on the stock exchanges. An additional share-sale of Jio Platforms will help RIL pare its Rs 3.36 lakh crore debt further. The company’s ongoing capital raising programmes, aimed at gathering Rs 1.04 lakh crore, are mainly targeted at debt reduction and expected to be completed by the end of this quarter. The fund-raise covers the Facebook investment in Jio Platforms, the Rs 53,125 crore rights offering and the Rs 7,000 crore investment from British Petroleum in lieu of a stake in the fuel retail joint venture. RIL acquired huge amounts of debt during its aggressive expansion in the telecommunications sector that saw many players exiting. Jio, with its free voice and cheap data plans, is now the country’s largest mobile services provider with 388 million subscribers. The digital business clocked an operating profit of Rs 14,363 crore on a revenue of Rs 68,462 core in fiscal 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-fb-more-global-cos-eyeing-jio-stake-ril/articleshow/75480593.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 1, 2020||Business||Jio-WhatsApp model can go global for small biz: Zuckerberg||BENGALURU: Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said that the JioMart-WhatsApp partnership can help the Silicon Valley-based social media giant build products for small businesses that can be taken to other markets across the world. Zuckerberg said India offered an ‘especially important opportunity’ to serve small businesses and enable commerce here over the long term. “So I think that is a great, very large example of how we can wire up and help small businesses in the country where we have the largest WhatsApp community. But certainly, all the products and technology that we're building to enable that partnership are going to be things that we want to do around the world,” he said on the analyst call while announcing Facebook’s first-quarter earnings ending March 2020. Earlier this month, Facebook invested $5.7 billion in Reliance’s Jio Platforms. Jio has since then started piloting its commerce initiative via WhatsApp in Mumbai suburbs. Separately during its results on Thursday, Reliance said that JioMart is already helping kiranas during lockdown with supplies and seeing an order spike. "Daily orders grew by 4x during the lockdown period as kirana partners focused on serving their neighborhoods during the time of crises," the company said in its media statement. JioMart has already started taking orders in Mumbai suburbs through WhatsApp. The Facebook founder also indicated that payments will be made through WhatsApp, which has over 400 million monthly active users in India. “There are millions of small businesses and shops across India, and they want to try to help get them onto a single network that you'll be able to communicate with through WhatsApp and do payments online through WhatsApp,” Zuckerberg said. Before taking analyst questions, he mentioned the JioMart and WhatsApp partnership is ‘going to be able to create a much better shopping experience.’ WhatsApp’s much-awaited payments service is expected to get a green signal in the next two months after being in beta mode for about two years now. WhatsApp Pay is restricted to one million users in India. On April 28, TOI reported saying WhatsApp is also looking at lending here through partnerships once it gets final nod for payments services. WhatsApp’s global head Will Cathcart told TOI last year that it sees India as the future of WhatsApp and this market remains at the centre of what it does strategically. Facebook’s large investment for a minority stake in Jio Platforms amid a pandemic-hit economy is further a sign of importance the company attaches to this market. Together on the FB group platforms--Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp, it has over 700 million users, with noticeable overlap, in India. “There's a lot more we can do here and I'm looking forward to making progress with the team at Jio,” Zuckerberg added on WhatsApp-led commerce opportunity in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-whatsapp-model-can-go-global/articleshow/75480548.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 1, 2020||Vadodara||Two more test positive in Khambhat||Vadodara/ Anand: With two more testing positive, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Anand district touched 79 on Thursday. As both the male patients, a 53-year-old and a 65-year-old, hailing from Nirkuiwado area of Khambhat tested positive, the number of cases in coastal town Khambhat reached 62. A 54-year-old man from Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area was also discharged after his repeat test were negative of Covid-19. With this, the total number of patients discharged was now 31, while four persons have died in the district since the outbreak. Currently, 43 patients are under treatment of which 17 are being treated at civil hospital, Anand; 24 at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad; and one at S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. According to officials of the health department, while one patient is under ventilator, four are being treated with oxygen support while 38 patients are stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-more-test-positive-in-khambhat/articleshow/75478246.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Surat||New containment zone in Katargam||Surat: SMC on Thursday declared Amroli-Raysan Road, 405 buildings which included H2 Avaas, H3 Avaas, H4 Avaas in Katargam area as 'containemnt zone' where 1.02 lak people are living in 19,440 households. This was done after positive cases surfaced from these areas. The residents of these buildings have been asked to remain inside their homes until further notice. There are a total of 34 containment zones in the city now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-containment-zone-in-katargam/articleshow/75480300.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Some employees behind NMC fraud: Shetty||Stanly.Pinto Mangaluru: B R Shetty, the founder of UAE-based NMC Health, said that he was vigorously pursuing all legal actions and remedies available to him against those who had committed fraud against him and his businesses. Preliminary findings of an investigation into his group’s affairs have indicated serious fraud and wrongdoing at his companies NMC and Finablr. Breaking his long silence on the issue, Shetty indicated that the fraud appears to have been undertaken by a small group of current and former executives at these companies. The companies had done exceedingly well, making Shetty a billionaire. But the recent scandal has dramatically reduced the value of the companies. NMC has sought to delist from the London Stock Exchange. Shetty on Wednesday said in a statement that he had been silent out of respect for the due process and to allow the authorities to quickly expedite their mandates. He said the restraint in speaking came at great personal cost to him, both reputationally and materially. Speaking to TOI on Thursday, Shetty said the incident had badly shaken his faith in people. "I have learnt my biggest lesson – not to trust people blindly,’’ he said, but quickly added, " I will still open my arms to those who need my help. What hurts most is those people whom I trusted, betrayed me.’’ Shetty said he came to Mangaluru on February 7 to tend to his brother who was ailing. "If I was in Abu Dhabi, I would not have been able to attend to him and pay my final respects. People would have said I was being jailed,’’ he said. He said he will return to the UAE to manage his other companies once airlines resume international operations. Shetty and others are facing a criminal complaint filed by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank alleging fraud and forgery, with debts totalling $6.6 billion. Following the complaint, Shetty’s bank accounts in the UAE were frozen as per the directive of the Central Bank of the UAE, according to a Gulf-based newspaper. Shetty stepped down from the board of NMC on February 16. "To see everything that my family and I have strived to build over the past 45 years eroded over the course of a few short months, and mainly due to the misconduct and wrongdoing of people I put so much trust in, saddens me beyond words,’’ he said, adding his greatest regret was for the thousands of hardworking employees in his firms who were now enduring extreme uncertainty, especially during the current Covid crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/some-employees-behind-nmc-fraud-shetty/articleshow/75479111.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Don’t mention Covid as cause of death, says official; shunted as note goes viral||Hours after a confidential note from his office went viral on social media, Debdas Saha , the medical superintendent and vice-principal (MSVP) of Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital (MMCH) in West Bengal, was transferred on Thursday. The duty roster for MMCH doctors, signed by Saha, circulating on social media caused much embarrassment to the Bengal government. The three-shift duty roster from April 27 to May 17 released on April 25 mentioned in its footnote an advisory to doctors on writing death certificates. “Cause of death will be the usual cause. No mention of Covid in death certificates of Covi positive cases,” Saha said. The state government transferred Saha to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital as professor anaesthesiology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-mention-covid-as-cause-of-death-says-official-shunted-as-note-goes-viral/articleshow/75482461.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Decision of relief in power bill payment welcomed||Kolhapur: The industrialists in Kolhapur have welcomed the state government’s decision on relaxation in payment of power bills. As per the government’s decision, industries can now pay the existing power bills in June. Welcoming the decision, Sanjay Shete, chairman of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) said, “We welcome the decision of government as it will give some respite to financially reeling industries from payment of power bills and power cuts over the delay in payment of bills.” “We had, however, expected the government to take some drastic decisions regarding waiving off the fixed power charges for three months. When we enquired with government officials about the decision regarding our demands, we were told that the government had postponed the issue and will takeit up for discussion sometime later. The industries from Kolhapur, including the Foundry industries, were desperate over the demand and have decided not to start operations till government makes a decision regarding the cancellation of fixed power tariff,” he said. An industrialist from Kagal MIDC welcomed the move. He said that the industrialists are quite satisfied with the government’s decision as most of them face fund shortage during lockdown. “It will take more than one month to complete the cycle of production and sell the material in the market and generate funds. By this time we need financial assistance to continue production and some relaxation in the form of delay in paying power bills will help us to function efficiently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/decision-of-relief-in-power-bill-payment-welcomed/articleshow/75480165.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||21 new cases in a day take Solapur +ve tally to 102||Kolhapur: The Solapur city recorded as many as 21 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday — the highest it has recorded in a day, since the emergence of the first coronavirus case on April 12. With these new cases, the tally in the city has risen to 102.The only relief for the administration on Thursday was the recovery of three patients, who tested negative for the infection after their post-isolation period. They have been discharged from the hospital.Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar confirmed that 20 of the fresh cases identified on Thursday were close contacts of other positive patients. The remaining case was of a Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patient.Shambharkar added that there were five cases from the Shastri Nagar area, eight from Shandar Chowk area, four from Modi area, one each from Sadar Bazaar, Nayi Jindagi, Kurban Husain and Shaniwar Peth areas.He further said the administration had admitted 1,650 suspected patients in isolation over the past few weeks. Of them, 1,353 have tested negative and 102 tested positive. Results for 195 swab samples are still pending.10-year-old tests positive in KaradMeanwhile, one more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Karad. A 10-year-old boy — who is a close contact of an earlier patient admitted at the sub-district hospital at Karad — is the latest case. With this, the Satara district has registered 44 Covid cases till date, of which, 34 are active. Eight patients have recovered, while there have been two deaths.Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has asked the departments associated with the disaster management to prepare disaster management plans by May 10. He has asked the officials to prepare a list of citizens who could be affected due to the floods during the monsoon in Karad, Patan and Wai and where they would be transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/21-new-cases-in-a-day-take-solapur-ve-tally-to-102/articleshow/75480156.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team: Telangana has adequate PPE kits||HYDERABAD: The inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) on a visit to Telangana to monitor lockdown implementation measures called for better measures at King Koti hospital. It suggested that patients should not be admitted in wards where there are no separate attached bathrooms. Union home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava on Thursday said employees and patients should be assigned separate corridors for wearing PPE kits in the hospital. “We visited Gandhi Hospital. Required protocols for discharge and treatment are being followed. More than 93% of patients in the region have been treated here. We also found that implementation of lockdown and physical distancing is being done more or less well,” she said. She said the state has adequate number of testing kits, PPE kits, etc. The state is using an end-to-end IT dashboard to track patients right from testing to discharge. The team also visited hospitals, shelter homes and construction sites. The official said they found labourers working without masks at some construction sites. The team has suggested to the authorities to provide masks and sanitisers to them and follow social distancing. During the visit of containment zone of Humayun Nagar, IMCT found that essential goods are being provided by GHMC at residents’ doorstep. The police are using drone technology for surveillance. Meanwhile, a BJP team led by Telangana state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar interacted with the central team through video conference, along with doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-t-has-adequate-ppe-kits/articleshow/75481108.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Residents out in hordes after intense lockdown||Madurai: Hundreds of people came out to buy vegetables and other essentials on Thursday, the first day after the end of the four-day intensive lockdown. The number of vehicles, which hit the roads were also higher than on other lockdown days. Although the state government announced that shops will remain open till 5pm to avoid overcrowding, most of the residents completed their purchase well before lunch. A city police officer said that adequate strength was deployed at all markets and junctions to ensure that people maintain social distancing. Although there was large queues in front of the markets, they were made to ensure social distancing, he said. However, residents claimed that social distancing norms went to the wind when they started purchasing. “There was no social distancing inside the market and people competed with each other while purchasing vegetables. Only solace is all of them were wearing masks,” said R Selvarani, a regular customer to the Bibikulam market. District administration has enforced stricter measures in containment areas to ensure people do not move between streets. Only those into essential services were allowed to leave the zones. “Every individual involved in essential services has to provide his/her personal details before letting them outside. Most of them extended their cooperation, while a few protested,” said a corporation official posted at Race Course Colony. A police official posted at a containment area in South Gate said that there is growing tension among people. They wanted to leave the area just to wander outside on the pretext of purchasing essentials, although vegetables are sold through the corporation inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-out-in-hordes-after-intense-lockdown/articleshow/75481111.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||‘Consult doctors through telemedicine’||VARANASI: In view of complete lockdown imposed in the district, the district administration has appealed to the people to avail services of telemedicine consultancy in case of any health complication other than Covid-19. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the telemedicine consultancy facility is being provided by the BHU hospital and IMA doctors. Under this facility anyone can consult the specialist doctors regarding their health problems. Besides, two doctors are also available at the war room created to handle the emergency situation. The administration has issued the list of doctors and their phone numbers for public. Besides, 38 medical stores in the different parts of the district have been designated for home delivery and around 80 delivery boys have been engaged in this work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/consult-docs-through-telemedicine/articleshow/75478791.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Give Rs 5k to all poor: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress demanded that the state government should give Rs 5,000 to all poor people, even those without ration cards. Opposition leaders met chief secretary (CS) Somesh Kumar on Thursday. The team of opposition leaders asked the CS to help farmers by procuring rabi produce with a good support price. “Allow all private labs to conduct tests. Release a white paper on financial position of state,” the leaders demanded. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-rs-5k-to-all-poor-cong/articleshow/75481125.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals shifting ICUs near isolation wards to avert risk||KOLKATA: Some city hospitals have started shifting Covid-19 intensive care units (ICUs) beside the isolation wards to restrict the spread of the virus. Most hospitals are now gearing up for non-Covid treatment, including elective or non-emergency surgeries. The ICUs are, in fact, being set up right next to the isolation wards on the same floor, so that shifting of patients can be done in isolation, minimizing chances of transmission within the hospital complexes. “A green corridor has to be created and adequate sanitization has to be done before and after shifting patients to the Covid-19 ICUs. Even the smallest of slip-ups can put many people at risk. So we have asked hospitals to have Covid-19 ICUs and isolation wards on the same floor,” a senior health official said on Thursday. Fortis Hospital, for instance, has already started the process of shifting the critical ward, which is on the third floor, to the isolation ward for Covid patients situated on the 9th floor. A spokesperson said, “The critical care unit with the ventilators will now be functioning right next to the isolation ward on the 9th floor. Work on this has started.” Doctors admitted it was cumbersome shifting patients from the 9th floor to the third floor. “A patient turning serious on the 9th floor will simply have to be wheeled to the other section right next to the ward when he needs a ventilator,” a doctor said. Peerless Hospital has also started the process of shifting the ICU right next to the isolation ward. The two will now be housed on the same floor of the same building. “This will minimize chances of the disease spreading to other hospital staffers and non-Covid patients as well,” a senior doctor from the hospital said. “By next week, we shall have the ICU on the same floor with the isolation ward for Covid-19 patients,” he said. Apollo Hospitals already has the facilities together. “We have the critical care set-up within the Covid-19 ward with three ventilators and provision for dialysis on one bed at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. In case the condition of a patient deteriorates, there will be no need to shift the patient to any other area,” said Rana Dasgupta, CEO (east), Apollo Hospitals Group. At M R Bangur, the challenge is to keep the Covid-19 suspects or those showing SARI symptoms separated from the confirmed cases. “The two categories are in two separate buildings,” Partha Guha, additional superintendent, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-shifting-icus-near-isolation-wards-to-avert-risk/articleshow/75481123.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Helps can’t collect salary due to lockdown||KOLKATA: Last Saturday, director Subhrajit Mitra’s apartment at the Tollygunje-Karunamoyee crossing was sealed after his neighbour had tested positive for Covid-19. Ward 15 – where this Diamond City South apartment is located – is one of the containment zones in the city. Round the clock, a police van stands outside his apartment. While those providing essential services are allowed entry, the three part-time workers of the Mitra household are barred. Last month, they had turned up on the salary-day to collect their dues. But this month, there is absolutely no way that their salaries can be paid. Mitra is among the many living in the 227 containment zones in the city, who can’t disburse salaries to their domestic helps/drivers this month. “This month, I can’t pay my cook, maid and sweeper. They are not allowed inside and do not have a smartphone where I can transfer money through Paytm. I will only be able to pay my mother’s nurse who has continued to stay with us. For the rest, I have to wait till the lockdown is lifted,” said Mitra. It is a similar situation for the telecom executive Pradip Kumar Sen in Ahiritola. The domestic help at his residence had promised to come down once a week before ward 19 had been declared a containment zone. Sen is not sure whether she will be able to turn up to collect her salary this month. “Barricades have been put up in the entire area. There are quite a number of positive cases in the vicinity. I do not know how to pay her salary,” he said. Residents of Teghoria in Ward 6 are also facing same problem. “Our complex, Meena Residency, is in the containment zone. Last month, I had transferred my driver’s salary online,” said Soumen Dutta, general manager of a pharma company. His domestic help stays in Madhyamgram and she borrowed her husband’s bicycle to ride all the way to Teghoria to collect her salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/helps-cant-collect-salary-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75480182.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||labour union members to celebrate May Day at homes||Hubballi: Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has decided to celebrate May Day on Friday indoors by maintaining social distance in view of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Mahesh Pattar, general secretary, CITU, Dharwad district, said, “In the wake of lockdown, we have cancelled public meetings, processions and other events on May Day on Friday across the state. More than 5 lakh members of different labour unions coming under CITU have been asked to celebrate May Day in their homes with family members, by maintaining social distance.” Labourers and their family members have been asked to read out May-Day manifesto released by CITU, sing revolutionary songs penned by veteran labour union leaders, pay respect to the leaders who laid down their lives for the sake of labourers, hold placards demanding the government announce packages to safeguard the interests of daily wage labourers, coolies, and other workers of unorganised sectors who have been hit by the Covid 19. “We will also express our solidarity to work only eight hours in a day, to protect our jobs, and to improve the economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/labour-union-members-to-celebrate-may-day-at-homes/articleshow/75479185.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 70% of Solapur and Satara Covid-19 patients asymptomatic||Kolhapur: The data from the health departments in Solapur and Satara revealed that over 70% of the Covid-19 cases, identified until Tuesday (April 28) night, were asymptomatic. Solapur has a roughly 72% asymptomatic rate, while Satara has recorded around 71% cases as asymptomatic.The positive cases that do not have any symptoms (asymptomatic) pose a greater challenge to the administration, as such patients are difficult to identify. One can only know about them via tracing or testing.Until Tuesday night, the Satara district had registered 41 Covid-19 cases, while Solapur district had registered 68. In both districts, the percentage of asymptomatic cases was above 70.Satara district health officer Aniruddha Athalye told TOI the fact that there is no way to identify the asymptomatic persons — who can be carriers — remains one of the biggest hurdles in containing the contagion. The only way to identify a positive case is to trace earlier positive patient’s close contacts, put them in isolation facility, collect their throat swab samples, and wait for the results.“Citizens too need to cooperate if they know about the travel history of any person so that he/she can be identified at a very early stage. Asymptomatic carriers roaming around freely in their communities can result in many more infection cases. Therefore, citizens need to be aware of their surroundings,” Athalye added.According to the district health officer, they have devised a treatment protocol depending on the patients’ condition. If the patient is young and asymptomatic, there is nothing to worry about as the chances of his/her recovery are higher. However, if the patient is over 60 years with the comorbidities, then it can be a serious challenge.Solapur district health officer Bhimashankar Jamadar said added that they are heavily dependent on the contact tracing of the close contacts. And since the number of asymptomatic patients is higher at Solapur, it has been a very hectic work for the health department there. He said a door-to-door survey is of no use if the patient is asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-70-of-solapur-and-satara-covid-19-patients-asymptomatic/articleshow/75480189.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 1, 2020||Pune||Citizens in PCMC limits upset with erratic shop timings||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body’s plan to let shops open from 10am to 2pm in containment zones, and till 4pm in other areas has been a non-starter. Shops rarely open during the declared timings in non-containment zones, resulting in crowding when then do open. It is worse is sealed areas as no one is allowed to leave or enter. People have to go without milk, vegetables and groceries.“Till two days ago, I could get milk right outside my house. Now, I have to walk half-a-kilometre to get milk in the morning, and even that runs out quickly,” said Bindu Kumar, a homemaker. She said that the entire implementation defeats social distancing as people crowd around the few open shops, during the time it is open. Citizens and shopkeepers say the civic body’s instructions and police actions are at odds with each other. “We do not know (about the 10am-4pm window). The police tell us to shut shop and so we down our shutters at 2pm. Also, they beat customers or threaten us with fines,” a vegetable vendor in Pimple Saudagar said. Vishnu Salve, former president of Pimpri vegetable Traders Association, the government’s decision was is understandable, but its implementation left a lot to be desired. “We agree that Pimpri market should be closed, else (coronavirus) can spread quickly. But they should ensure social distancing. Threatening customers and vendors is not the way to go,” he said. Popatlal Oswal, president of Pune Merchants Chamber, said that only half the vehicles are coming to Marketyard with produce. “Many people fear police action and so are not ready to come from outside,” he said. Customers, meanwhile, have to walk far and pay more to get what they need. In sealed areas, the shops are not open as notified between 10am to 2pm. Pimpri Chinchwad’s deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said that all police stations have been informed to abide by the new timings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-in-pcmc-limits-upset-with-erratic-shop-timings/articleshow/75482129.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stringent measures in hotspots up to May 3||PUNE: All shops selling essential commodities, barring milk and medical stores, will remain closed in all areas under the jurisdiction of Samarth, Khadak and Faraskhana police stations, and certain parts of seven other police stations from Friday till Sunday. Medical stores and milk shops will remain open in these areas between 10am and noon. Home delivery of milk will be allowed between 6am and 10am. All shops selling essential commodities like grocery, vegetables, fruits, mutton, chicken and eggs will be shut between 6am on May 1 and till midnight of May 3. Home delivery of essential commodities will not be allowed in the areas. Pune police’s joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve on Thursday issued an order under section 144 (1) (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code imposing additional restrictions in these areas declared as containment zones. Shisve said the additional restrictions were imposed because of a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. Certain areas come under the jurisdiction of Swargate, Cantonment, Bundgarden, Sahakarnagar, Dattawadi, Yerawada and Khadki police stations. As per the earlier orders issued by Shisve, shops selling essential commodities under the limits of 20 other police stations will remain open between 10am and 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-milk-medical-stores-to-be-open-in-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/75482124.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Five new cases make Madurai fourth hotspot||MADURAI: After going without new cases for two days, Madurai saw five more people testing positive on Thursday while Ramanathapuram recorded three cases, taking the total in Madurai to 84 and in the southern districts to 413. Among those who tested positive is a 26-year-old native of Tuticorin serving in the disaster management team. He had been working in Chennai and was deployed at Madurai. He now resides in the Reserve Line in Madurai which falls under the corporation limits. A female health worker, 42, at GRH hailing from Karumbalai also tested positive for the disease. Like the recent cases, all new cases fell within the Madurai city limits. A 29-year-old woman from Vilangudi who delivered a baby at the PHC in Sathyamoorthy Nagar, Samayanallur, on Wednesday tested positive on Thursday. The others were a 31-year-old man from Kariselkulam and a 33-year-old woman from Keela Anupanadi, both coming under containment zones. There are eleven containment zones in Madurai city. Three people, including a 30-year-old traffic police constable, have tested positive for covid-19 in Ramanathapuram district, taking the district’s total to 18. A 29-year-old fireman and a 33-year-old domestic breeding checker are the other two. The constable was attached to Ramanathapuram town traffic station while the fireman was from Ramanathapuram town fire and rescue station located inside the vast premises of the district collectorate. Both the police and fire stations have been closed following the confirmation. The traffic police station is now functioning just outside the station building as a temporary measure. It was on April 26 that a Covid-19 positive case was reported from the district in the form of a boy from Paramakudi. All the three have been shifted to Sivaganga medical college hospital. People in their close circles including family members and colleagues have been asked to isolate themselves and are being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-new-cases-make-madurai-4th-hotspot/articleshow/75481118.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Ministry: No confirmed treatment for virus yet||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Thursday said there was, so far, no confirmed treatment protocol for Covid-19 and nothing conclusive had come up as far as vaccines were concerned. “Multiple organisations in the government are engaged in multiple vaccine trials for Covid-19. Besides, we are also part of solidarity trials with the WHO. Some candidate vaccines have been identified. But, nothing conclusive has come up,” said the health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal. Briefing the media on the current Covid-19 situation in the country, he said, “Multiple stages have to be passed to conclude safe and efficacious use of a vaccine by human beings. As far as India is concerned, we have identified Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to begin with as a prophylaxis (preventive treatment).” The ministry had in March issued a detailed advisory on the use of HCQ as prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Responding to a question on US study on Remdesivir antiviral, Agarwal said, “As of now, there is no confirmed treatment protocol for Covid-19. Remdesivir is one protocol which is being examined world over. Even the study on Remdesivir by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases has not conclusively proved its effectiveness. We are waiting for larger evidence to be generated for us to take meaningful action at the field level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ministry-no-confirmed-treatment-for-virus-yet/articleshow/75482468.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Criminal case against TRS corporator||Hyderabad: A criminal case was booked against TRS corporator G Sanjay Goud for allegedly violating lockdown by frequently coming out of containment zone at Venkatagiri. Yousufguda corporator Sanjay Goud, whose residence is located in Venkatagiri, reportedly came out of red zone and participated in distribution of food despite a warning. Jubilee Hills police on Thursday registered a suo motu case against Goud under Section 188 of IPC and Disaster Management Act. Six members of a family tested positive in neighbourhood of Goud’s residence. Meanwhile, an MIM corporator intervened when two cops on patrol took objection for alleged gathering of more than the permitted persons at a place of worship in Madanapet . The corporator and a few others reportedly spoke to the cops in an aggressive manner and when the Armed Reserve constable tried to hide his badge, the corporator held his hand and questioned why he was hiding it when a few locals were capturing the video. The police are contemplating to register a case against the leader after consulting senior officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/criminal-case-against-trs-corporator/articleshow/75481144.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||20 cops quarantined after suspect they held tests +ve||Aurangabad: As many as 20 policemen, including an entire detection branch of the City Chowk police station, have been quarantined after an accused they had arrested and dealt with for three days tested positive for Covid-19. According to a police officer, the suspect was caught for illegal sale and supply of pharmaceutical drugs and he remained in the custody of the detection branch team for three days. "Not taking any chance, all 120 policemen from the said police station have been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Of these 40 policemen, including the 20 quarantined, will have to undergo special screening," the officer said. A team — led by police sub-inspector Pravin Patharkar who heads City Chowk police station’s detection branch — in the wee hours of April 23 had nabbed a 42-year-old accused with scheduled drugs (benzodiazepines and sleeping medications). After being arrested he was produced before the court that remanded him in three-day police custody during which he revealed the pharmacy store from where he obtained the drugs. The police team travelled all the way to Kannad with the accused and raided the pharmacy store. After completion of the police custody, the court remanded the accused in judicial custody on Monday. As the prison administration has made it mandatory to carry out COVID-19 test of every new prisoner, a test was carried on him on Monday and the report concluded him to be positive for coronavirus on Tuesday night. Deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) told TOI, "We have quarantined all the policemen, who interrogated the accused, carried out search at his place, travelled with him to raid the medical store and so on." The officer informed that during the course of interrogation, social distancing was followed and use of masks and sanitizers were ensured by the policemen. City Chowk police station inspector Sambhaji Pawar said, "20 policemen including a PSI have been quarantined, while the others are being screened as well. Another 20 policemen, including me, would undergo two consecutive tests, before a call to quarantine us is taken." On Wednesday, police inspector DS Shingare was given additional charge of City Chowk police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/20-cops-quarantined-after-suspect-they-held-tests-ve/articleshow/75457923.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||19 migrant workers’ bid to go to UP foiled||Kolhapur: Police personnel deployed on the Sangli border detained a group of 19 migrant workers from Ichhalkaranji, who were planning to escape to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh, and were sent to institutional quarantine. Many people from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have migrated to Ichalkaranji to work in the power loom units and the textile industries. However, ever since the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the migrant workers have been rendered jobless with no other means of sustenance. They are waiting as to when the lockdown will be lifted and they can return to their hometown. Some workers who attempt to run away to their hometown get caught by the police and are sent to institutional quarantine as a precautionary measure. In one such incident, a group of 19 migrant workers belonging to Chandauli district of Uttar Pradesh were putting up in a rented accommodation in Ichhalkaranji. They hatched a plan of cycling upto Miraj railway station, the nearest station from their homes, and walking along the railway tracks to reach their hometown. Around 3am on Thursday, the migrant workers took their bicycles and started riding towards Miraj. However, to their utter disappointment, they were intercepted by the police on duty at the border of Kolhapur and Sangli districts. After enquiry, police completed their medical check-up and sent them to Ichalkaranji police for further action. Ichalkaranji police put them under institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/19-migrant-workers-bid-to-go-to-up-foiled/articleshow/75480198.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Celebrity deaths make cancer patients jittery||KOLKATA: The death of actors Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor — both of whom succumbed to cancer — has led to fear among patients suffering from the terminal disease. Oncologists are also concerned as they have been struggling to attend to the patients due to constraints imposed by the pandemic. Several oncologists said they were getting calls from their patients, especially those in an advanced stage of the ailment and those who require surgery, ever since the news of Khan’s passing away of neuro-endocrine cancer broke on Wednesday morning. Kapoor’s death due to leukaemia on Thursday has left many cancer patients depressed, said some oncologists. With surgeries down to a trickle across hospitals and consultations restricted to telephonic advice, cancer patients are among the worst affected. A state hospital oncologist said he got a call from a patient — whose surgery has been pushed back indefinitely — pleading for a date for his operation. “When his surgery was deferred, we had no idea that the lockdown would last this long. Now, logistical difficulties and his condition make it risky to conduct the surgery. But we can’t wait much longer or he may not recover at all,” said the oncologist. “There are many with rare forms of cancer — like the one Irrfan Khan suffered from — who need constant monitoring. But now they are left without supervision,” pointed out onco-surgeon Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “With surgeries and constant monitoring now difficult, they should keep in constant touch with their doctors. While it could be risky for these patients to visit hospitals due to their low immunity, they should follow doctors’ instructions diligently,” he added. Narayana Health onco-surgeon Saurav Datta cited the instance of an oral cancer patient who needed a surgery in mid-March. “The lockdown was imposed in March and he has been waiting ever since. There are scores like him who are helplessly waiting for their treatment to resume. Unfortunately, the time lost can’t be made up for a large number of patients who may not be in a condition to undergo an operation when the lockdown is lifted,” Datta said. He added that a 14-year-old boy with tongue cancer is among those waiting for a surgery. The hopeless wait is adding to the stress of cancer patients, said Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER) professor Diptendra Sarkar. “This sudden break in treatment will invariably turn out to be fatal for many cancer patients. The last two days have been difficult for them, especially those at an advanced stage of the disease,” Sarkar said. “The deaths of Khan and Kapoor have unnerved them. At least three of my patients, including an advanced-stage oral cancer patient, need immediate surgery. But lack of transport and the fear of Covid-19 infection stand in the way. Along with kidney patients, those with cancer are having to pay a heavy price,” he added. Datta agreed and pointed out that cancer patients can’t be asked to wait till the lockdown is called off. “The state should make arrangements to ensure that they receive treatment and can go undergo surgeries. Unlike other patients, they can’t afford to wait,” said Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/celebrity-deaths-make-cancer-patients-jittery/articleshow/75481131.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 1, 2020||Pune||PCMC to enrol senior citizens to monitor their health||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will enrol senior citizens staying in its limits to keep a watch on their health and also help prevent the spread of Covid-19, civic commissioner Shravan Hardikar said during the third live Facebook chat show on Thursday. Senior citizens form around 12-13% of the 22 lakh population in PCMC limits. “The civic body is holding discussions with the federation of senior citizens within the PCMC limits. Senior citizens must enrol themselves with the civic health department, for which provision will be made on the Smart Sarathi app. A group will also be formed for slum dwellers to enrol their names and contact numbers.” The civic chief urged unwell senior citizens to seek medical help without any delay. “After comparing the March death rates over the last 7 to 8 years, we have found that the lowest number of deaths occurred in March this year and that the number is 20-30% lower. People have been staying at home in March due to the lockdown,” Hardikar said. He said people must wear masks if they were staying in small houses. Shrirang Gokhale, director, Niramaya hospital, said, “People with influenza-like symptoms, must seek medical advice quickly. Most of the people with mild symptoms can be treated at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-enrol-senior-citizens-to-monitor-their-health/articleshow/75482134.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||87.5 lakh to get tur dal in May||Hyderabad: Tur dal or kandi pappu, an important staple food of Telangana, will be distributed free to 87.55 lakh ration card holders in May along with the 12-kg rice and Rs 1,500 financial assistance. Though the central government would supply tur dal free to only 52 lakh-odd white ration card holders, the Telangana government has decided to spend from its pocket Rs 103 crore, including Rs 77.40 per kg tur dal (purchase cost) and transport expenses, for distribution of kandi pappu to the remaining 35 lakh-odd card holders. “The central government goes by the data of white card holders it has about Telangana. It will give tur dal for only 52-lakh card holders. But the state government cannot turn away any card holder stating the Centre has given tur dal for only 52 lakh card holders. So, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to purchase tur dal and ensure all the 87.55 lakh are given the pulses,” a senior official said. Civil supplies commissioner P Satyanarayana Reddy confirmed to TOI that tur dal supplies have started but only partially. Nearly 27,000 metric tonnes of tur dal would be needed in Telangana, but so far only 2,000 metric tonnes has been supplied by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India limited (NAFED), the nodal agency for supply of agricultural produce. “We are regularly pursuing with the Centre and NAFED to speed up supplies. If we receive at least 9,000 metric tonnes of tur dal before April 30, we can start its distribution at the rate of 1-kg per card holder from May 1. If not, the state government will take a final call whether to start the supplies in Greater Hyderabad from May 1 and later to other parts of the state after we receive total supplies, or start supplies to the entire state only after getting the tur dal quota from NAFED. A final decision will be taken on April 30,” Satyanarayana Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/87-5-lakh-to-get-tur-dal-in-may/articleshow/75480205.cms||Roushan Ali
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||Drug wholesaler’s infection trail hits medicine markets in east UP||VARANASI: The trail of infections by Saptsagar medicine market wholesaler, a Covid-19 super spreader, has created a flutter not only in Varanasi but adjoining east UP districts also with officials trying to trace his contacts. The moment lab report confirmed he had infected 12 persons, including his family members, Varanasi officials investigated his contact history and alerted their counterparts in other districts. As a result, officials in Chandauli district ensured testing of four medicine traders, 34 shops were closed in Ballia, while Sonbhadra officials ordered screening of eight traders. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “When wholesaler’s Covid-19 status was confirmed on April 25, we traced how many sub-distributors and retailers had procured medicine from his shop in Saptsagar medicine market in past 10 days and alerted officials of their districts.” “Four traders in Chandauli district were tested but their reports were negative. Appeals were made to all those who had come in contact with the wholesaler or people infected by him, to come forward for getting examined properly,” Agrawal said. In Ballia, district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi has ordered closure of all 34 medicine shops till their owners and staff turn up for screening. Shahi issued the order on Wednesday after none came after his directive in this regard on April 28. The 34 shops had been issued passes by Ballia district administration to visit Varanasi for procuring medicine supplies. Shahi added that the shops will remain closed till all are screened and in case anyone is found Covid-19 positive, FIRs would be lodged against them. Sonbhadra CMO Dr S K Upadhyaya said, “Eight sub-distributors of Robertsganj procure supplies from Varanasi. Of them two were in contact with depots and wholesalers in Varanasi. Both traders and their staff were summoned and their samples sent to BHU laboratory.” The wholesaler tested positive on April 25 and emerged as super spreader as his four family members, four employees, two traders and two others in their contact were found infected, while reports of dozens in contact trail are awaited. The wholesale market in Saptsagar, Bulanala and Nehru Market (Maidagin) supply medicine to east UP and parts of Bihar. The market is closed since April 25 and decision on its reopening has not been taken so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drug-wholesalers-infection-trail-hits-medicine-markets-in-east-up/articleshow/75478844.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 1, 2020||Pune||Six more dead, 105 people turn positive in Pune||Pune: Six more Covid-19 patients died at different hospitals, while 105 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday. With this, the total casualties and positive cases have risen to 92 and 1,700, respectively, in the region so far. Of the total cases, 92 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, taking the patient count in the area to above 1,500 so far. The deceased included a 53-year-old woman from Bhigvan in Indapur tehsil of Pune district was admitted in a private hospital on April 27 and succumbed to the infection on Thursday morning. The other deceased included as 66-year-old man of Ambedkarnagar from Market Yard area, who was diagnosed with pneumonia, a 40-year old woman from Kasba Peth diagnosed with pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and a 47-year-old man with severe pneumonia. Two deaths occurred on April 29, but were reported as Covid-19 casualties only on Thursday. These included a 53-year-old man from Kasewadi of the Bhavani Peth area and a 58-year-old woman of Ravivar Peth. As for the quarantined individuals, 11,903 are still in quarantine in the PMR. So far, 254 people have been discharged in PMC limits after treatment and recovery. Three fresh cases in PCMC areas Three persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Pimpri Chinchwad on Thursday, following which orders were issued to seal an area in Pimple Gurav from midnight. The total number of positive patients in the PCMC limits has now risen to 113. Besides, four persons from Bhosari, Sambhajinagar and Dapodi were discharged after their swab samples came negative. With their discharge, 68 patients are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the area as of Thursday. Civic officials said 195 people were quarantined on Thursday, due to which the total quarantined count has reached 3,770. Field surveillance teams have surveyed 14,579 houses so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-more-dead-105-people-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75482142.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||‘Follow a balanced routine to deal with coronavirus stress’||VARANASI: The lockdown should be taken as a ‘God given opportunity’ to complete pending work, pursue talent, learn and engage in new activities, spend more time with spouse & children, said president of Indian Association for Social Psychiatry and former head of department of psychiatry, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University Prof Indira Sharma. Explaining the psychological impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, she said that it has resulted in disruption of normal life and a stress of unprecedented proportion. “The psychological impact is immense and varied with virtually all being affected including general public, persons at risk, persons in quarantine, Covid-19 patients, doctors and health workers, government officials, police and psychiatrists as well,” she said adding that the general people have fear of harm to self or near and dear ones, and are forced to adopt a different lifestyle. The doctors and health workers are in constant fear of contracting corona virus. The police are in stress while enforcing lockdown and tracing potential contacts with a fear of harm to self. The government officials have no past experience of handling such a situation. The psychiatrists also feel helplessness because priority to Covid-19 treatment has led to less attention to routine psychiatric care, she said. “Stress is an inseparable part of life, so has become Covid-19 pandemic. Do not panic, and take the stress as part of the life package,” she said adding that it should be kept in mind that the government, doctors and paramedical staff, and law enforcing machinery are the guardians during this period of crisis. “One should maintain a healthy lifestyle, which means a balanced routine comprising 8-hours of sleep, daily bathing and other self-help skills, prayer for 5-10 minutes, food four times a day (diabetics 5 times a day), aerobic exercise for 40 minutes per day,” she said suggesting daily reading of newspaper and viewing TV news channel for about 15 min to 30 min, working for 3 to 8 hours per day depending upon one’s age, health and need. One should also engage in recreation and talent promotion in the form of indoor games and other activities as per choice and need Prof Sharma also called upon psychiatrists to team up with paraprofessional staff (nurses, psychologists and social workers) and educate people about the pandemic and ways to cope with it, and also provide psychological support to tide away the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/follow-a-balanced-routine-to-deal-with-coronavirus-stress/articleshow/75478876.cms||Binay Singh
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Panel says Tamil Nadu can’t open up fully on May 3||CHENNAI: A state health experts committee on Covid-19 that met the chief minister on Thursday has advised a staggered exit from the lockdown and said Tamil Nadu cannot open up completely when the nationwide lockdown ends on May 3. The committee met Edappadi K Palaniswami and senior government officials at the secretariat in Chennai over precautions to be followed during partial relaxation of the lockdown. “Lockdown cannot be lifted fully in the state. The situation is such that it cannot be done… Lockdown can be lifted in a phased manner,” said Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, national institute of epidemiology, and expert member of the panel. The committee took note of the hike in number of people being tested and jump in positive cases in TN over the past 15 days. Panel advises against allowing public transport in TN for a month A source said, “The state cabinet will decide on Saturday. Some corporations such as Chennai, Coimbatore and Tirupur where cases are high will maintain status quo. An expert panel on exit strategy will make a presentation before the CMon Friday and more sector-specific relaxations are expected.” According to sources, the health committee has made zone-specific recommendations to the government: Partial relaxation in orange zones, status quo with a few more exemptions in red zones, and total relaxation in green zones. The committee has told the government not to allow public transport, public gathering, and opening of cinemas and places of worship across the state for at least a month. According to Kaur, while positive cases were on the rise in certain districts, many also recorded decline. “We have suggested indicators from epidemiological and health system point of view. The government could relax lockdown in certain areas based on surveillance and data analytics,” she said. Even if the state decides to relax the lockdown,certain measures such as social distancing, personal hygiene and wearing masks in public places must be adhered to. “We have to change our lifestyle. The virus is going to stay for a long time,” she said. Elderly people, who are most vulnerable, must be protected and interactions with them by young people must be restricted. Similarly, people with co-morbidities should get proper treatment to reduce Covid-19 risk. The expert said the state should continue measures such as surveillance, contact tracing, isolation of detected cases and quarantine. Only with community support, the situation could be brought under control. Epidemiologist Dr G Kuganantham said the government should ensure 25 districts where cases have seen a decline should progress to green zones. “Private hospitals should have a separate wing for ILI/SARI/Covid cases with adequate protective equipment,” Kuganantham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panel-says-tn-cant-open-up-fully-on-may-3/articleshow/75481150.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Three dead, 22 new Covid-19 cases in T||Hyderabad: After recording single-digit numbers for the past few days, Telangana on Thursday reported three deaths and 22 new Covid-19 cases. Authorities said the deaths were recorded within 24 hours of admission at Gandhi Hospital, the nodal centre for Covid-19 cases, as the coronavirus caseload reached 1038 with 28 deaths. After a sudden spurt of 22 cases on Thursday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao conducted a review with officials and asked them to be more vigilant in containment zones. “The number of cases increased as two people in Malakpet area got infected and in turn, had infected three shop owners and their family members,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. “We have sent their families to government isolation centres and declared Pahadishareef and Ganz areas as containment zones,” Rajender added. A 48-year-old man from Ramanthapur was among the three dead. He was suffering from obesity, diabetes, and quickly developed pneumonia A 76-year-old man from Vanasthalipuram with heart and kidney-related ailments and a 44-year-old woman from Jiaguda with diabetes among other ailments were the remaining two persons who succumbed to Covid-19. Altogether, 33 people were discharged, including a 50-year-old doctor. “The state government is following all the guidelines of the central government, and the Union home ministry has also recognized this,” the health minister said. He said 568 people are receiving treatment in designated Covid- 19 hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-dead-22-new-covid-19-cases-in-t/articleshow/75480212.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kheradi Wangi: 36 to be retested||Kolhapur: In a big relief to the Sangli district administration, it was confirmed on Wednesday that the Kheradi Wangi village resident, who had died recently, was not Covid-19 positive. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhary on Thursday said the confirmation came from the Mumbai-based Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital. The hospital said that there was a name mix-up, which sparked concerns in the Sangli district, Chaudhary added. According to the collector, the 36 people under institutional quarantine at Kadegaon, will continue to be there. He said these 36 individuals — who had attended the deceased man’s funeral and were his close contacts — will be retested for Covid-19. Depending on the results, a decision to put them under home-quarantine or continue with the institutional quarantine will be taken, he said. The deceased man’s wife had told the Sangli administration about the collection of the deceased’s swab at the Mumbai hospital. The Sangli administration then contacted the Mumbai hospital, and was told on April 22 that the deceased was Covid-19 positive. The administration hurriedly put all close contacts under institutional quarantine. Earlier, Chaudhary had said that since the tests of all 36 people came negative in the first test, and the possibility of testing positive for the contagion increases after 7 days of the exposure, we might re-conduct the tests. Meanwhile, the district has started a survey of senior citizens to identify people with infection and comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kheradi-wangi-36-to-be-retested/articleshow/75480209.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Policewoman, SRPF jawan test positive, 25 in quarantine||Pune: A woman constable on bandobast duty in the eastern part of the city tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday as did a State Reserve Police Force jawan also on bandobast duty in central Pune on Thursday. The woman, currently with the state Criminal Investigation Department, was admitted to a hospital on Tuesday after she developed a cough and temperature, both symptoms of the contagion. The state CID has released its manpower to local police units to help in bandobast duty on the roads and in red zone areas of the city. After the SRPF jawan tested positive for Covid-19, the entire company of 25 policemen deployed in the area has been sent to the quarantine facility in the city, a senior police officer. As many as 10 police constables have tested positive for the contagion so far. Nine were from a centrally located police station. This is the first case among the policemen posted in the suburban area of the city. As many as 96 policemen have already been sent to institutional or home quarantine. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said the police are taking steps to prevent spread of the infection among the policemen. The police station was sanitised on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/policewoman-srpf-jawan-test-positive-25-in-quarantine/articleshow/75482137.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for attacking constable in Solapur||Kolhapur: A man has been arrested by Solapur police for allegedly assaulting, manhandling and threatening a police constable in Maloli village on Thursday. According to police, the man — identified as Arunsinh Jadhav — objected to constable Javed Jamadar’s entry into the village. He was arrested and produced before a local court that remanded him in one-day police custody. "A local police patil had informed Jamadar that some outsiders had come to Maloli village without informing the local administration. Entry of outsiders is prohibited in Solapur district under Disaster Management Act," a police officer said. "When Jamadar was on his way to the village in his vehicle, Jadhav stopped him and objected to his entry. Before the constable could explain anything, the suspect started attacking Jamadar. The constable has sustained injuries during the attack and his uniform was torn as well. The suspect also threatened to set the constable ablaze," he added. After the attack, Jamadar went to the nearest primary health centre where he was administered the first-aid. Later, he lodged a complaint at Velapur police station. After registering the complaint a police team swung into action and arrested Jadhav. According to the complaint lodged by Jamadar, Jadhav also did not let the constable check a hotel that is owned by his the latter’s brother. The suspect has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-attacking-constable-in-solapur/articleshow/75480216.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 10 held for gambling, eight bikes seized||COIMBATORE: At least 10 people were arrested in Tirupur for gambling on Wednesday night. Tirupur north police sub-inspector Rajendraprasath said the arrests were made based on a tip that a group of people were engaged in gambling at Nagamara Thottam near the new bus stand in the city. The officer said, “We have seized from them eight motorcycles,Rs 56,590 and a bundle of cards. They also violated the prohibitory orders that five or more people should not gather at one place which was brought into contain the spread of Covid-19.” Police identified the arrested as M Sudalaimuthu, 38, M Rahul, 29, N Karthik, 26, A Durairaj, 42, C Nataraj, 40, P Loganathan, 35, A Abudahir, 38, K Ramesh, 43, K Sathish, 23 and S Vivek, 29, all residents of Tirupur city. While police registered a case against them under Sections 8 and 9 of the Tamil Nadu Gambling Act, they were let off on conditional bail. Further investigation is on.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-held-for-gambling-eight-bikes-seized/articleshow/75480214.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Industries in rural areas may get nod to resume operations soon||COIMBATORE: The district administration is preparing an exit strategy report, which will have details of reopening of industries, areas where lockdown rules can be relaxed and measures to monitor Covid-19 situation after the lockdown. According to sources, the Union government is planning to extend the lockdown till May 17. “We will grant permission to open all industrial sectors in rural part of Coimbatore. The industries should function with at least 50% of staff. But we won’t allow industries to open in the containment areas,” said an official. Industrial units should check the temperature of workers and ensure frequent hand washing, the official said. “Workers should wear face mask and practice social distancing. The industries can operate their vehicles to transport employees. Small-scale industries need to buy raw materials from shops in the city. So, the district administration is planning to grant permission to open such shops for a fixed time.” While there are 10 containment areas in the city, there are eight in the rural parts of the district. The district administration plans to open two containment areas in the city on Friday. Containment areas in the rural parts will be opened within a week. The district administration has given instructions to all the government employees to join for duty from May 4. “We instructed the agriculture and animal husbandry department staff to join immediately,” the official said. On Thursday, representatives of industrial associations met Coimbatore collector K Rajamani and discussed the possibilities of opening industrial units and practices such as personal distancing. Codissia president R Ramamurthy, who attended the meeting, said it will be slow start. “The idea now is to open units in rural areas first, the ones in city peripheries later and only then the units in the city. Units in containment zones cannot be opened. For smooth functioning, we also need to source consumables, tools and raw materials,” he told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industries-in-rural-areas-may-get-nod-to-resume-operations-soon/articleshow/75480208.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Two arrested for assaulting police constable in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Two people were arrested in Ooty on Thursday for assaulting a police constable on duty. When police questioned Rajesh, a resident of St Mary’s Hill, for loitering on the road on his bike, Rajesh immediately called his father ‘Boat house Mohan’ to the spot. Mohan and his cousin Antony came for Rajesh’s help and picked up a quarrel with a police constable on duty there. Mohan and Antony manhandled the constable and assaulted him. Mohan’s daughter was also part of the crime, said police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-arrested-for-assaulting-police-constable-in-ooty/articleshow/75480211.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||Home delivery system to be streamlined||VARANASI: People in the city remained completely locked inside their homes for second consecutive day on Thursday due to strict enforcement of closure of markets by the administration and police. Though vegetable supplies are likely to be normalised from Friday morning with reopening of wholesale markets after completing all arrangements for social distancing there, officials were working hard to strengthen home delivery services amidst complaints on social media platforms. To check the possibility of community spread especially after the Covid-19 cases adopted rising trend from April 24, the district administration had initially decided for complete closure of markets, which were opening between 6 am and 10 am after the beginning of lockdown from March 25, on Wednesday only. However, when the rising trend was visible in figures, the order for keeping all counter sale closed was extended till May 3. The officials decided to ensure availability of essential commodities including grocery, vegetable and medicines through home delivery service providers. But, the home delivery service providers left the people struggling to contact them. It resulted in flooding of social media platforms with complaints against home delivery service. Taking serious note of it, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma asked the district supply officer and officials of all other departments concerned to streamline the arrangements. He said that 3,000 passes had already been issued in the district for home delivery while state government had also allowed 178 companies in chain marketing to provide their services. Efforts of officials led to releasing of area wise list of traders issued passes to provide home delivery service. People, who struggled due to unavailability of vegetables as even cart vendors stayed indoors, may get some relief from Friday morning as the administration will allow eight wholesale markets of vegetables including Bhojubir, Lamahi, Pahadia, Panchkroshi, Chanduasatti, Sunderpur, Ramnagar and Nuao to open between 3 am and 6 am to supply vegetables to cart vendors and retailers. Officials said that cart vendors and retailers will ensure delivery of vegetables at doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/home-delivery-system-to-be-streamlined/articleshow/75478895.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||1st plasma recipient of Maha dies, trial on||The first patient in Maharashtra to be treated with the plasma therapy to beat Covid-19 succumbed late on Wednesday at Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital, where he was on ventilator for 10 days, reports Sumitra DebRoy. Doctors said the 53-year-old didn’t test negative for the infection or show any improvement since the therapy was administered four days ago. The state, however, said the setback wouldn’t change its decision to allow more hospitals to carry out plasma therapy trials. The man was transfused with one dose (200ml) of plasma from a recovered patient on Saturday with the belief that the antibodies in the blood component would help him fight the infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1st-plasma-recipient-of-maha-dies-trial-on/articleshow/75482469.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases cross 300-mark in Vadodara, two more die||Vadodara: The total number of persons infected by the novel coronavirus went above 300 with 20 more persons testing positive since Wednesday evening. Covid-19, meanwhile, also claimed two more lives in the city taking the death toll to 21. In all, 218 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the city, of which 20 were found positive. With the fresh lot of Covid-19 cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in Vadodara city and district went up to 305. The deceased included Sarvar Raza Mansuri (45), a resident of Panigate area and Thakore Gohil (35), a resident of Chokari village in Padra district. While Mansuri died on Thursday morning at the GMERS, Gotri Hospital, Gohil died late in the afternoon on the same day at the SSG Hospital. As many as 172 positive persons are under treatment in the city. The condition of 161 among them is stable, while eight are on oxygen and three on ventilators or BiPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-cross-300-mark-in-vadodara-two-more-die/articleshow/75478265.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body reviews situation in affected areas of Wanowrie and Bibvewadi||PUNE: Officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), led by additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal, on Wednesday reviewed the situation in neighbourhoods under the jurisdiction of Wanowrie and Bibvewadi police stations that have seen a rise in Covid-19 cases. Agarwal also reviewed the law and order situation and discussed the issues faced by the civic and police authorities in enforcing the lockdown. The senior official told TOI, “We visited Ramtekdi, Sayyednagar and Upper Indiranagar and reviewed cleaning activities in the severely-affected areas. We have provided additional manpower to maintain cleanliness in these areas. We have also sanctioned two mobile ambulances to conduct screening tests.” She added, “We have successfully controlled an increase in the number of cases in these areas by undertaking preventive measures” The Pune police has appointed 7,500 special officers, including 2,000 in the affected areas, to offer assistance to the PMC.  Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from the Wanowrie police station said, “Agarwal reviewed the bandobast in affected areas and praised the initiative of appointing ‘Covid fighters’ or special police officers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-reviews-situation-in-ncov-affected-areas-in-wanowrie-and-bibvewadi/articleshow/75482145.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Business as usual for 748 essential industrial units||Coimbatore: The District Industries Centre (DIC) had given permission to run 748 essential industrial units during the lockdown last month.The industries fell under sectors such as food processing, healthcare, and specific industries such as those cater to the electricity board. Some warehouse were also permitted to function.As many as 7,379 employees and 127 vehicles such as mini trucks, trucks, buses, vans, cars and auto rickshaws were given passes.Several industrial units had approached DIC for permission to operate as they were essential industries, general manager B Karthigaivasan said. “But as DIC was functioning with a reduced workforce, we were not able to verify whether all these were functioning,” he said. “We made sure that food processing industries such as rice mills, wheat flour mills, maida-making units, and sooji-making units were functioning as they were essential commodities. Some units catering to the healthcare sector were also permitted, include those making ventilators. Some of these industries might not have been able to function continuously. For example, a mask-maker might have stalled operations for a few days, as he could not have been able to source raw materials in time,” the official said.Meanwhile, DIC has also been collecting sector-wise data on the number of large and MSME industries in core corporation areas, peripheral corporation areas, and rural areas. This would be passed on to the state government through the district administration to prepare an exit strategy after the lockdown period ends on May 3.“We are in the process of finalising the data and are looking to let foundries, spinning mills and powerloom units in rural areas function,” Karthigaivasan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/business-as-usual-for-748-essential-industrial-units/articleshow/75480223.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Day after complete lockdown, crammed markets a concern||Coimbatore: On Thursday, a day after the four-day complete lockdown ended, people thronged markets and shops to buy provisions and essentials.In areas such as such as Gandhipuram, Saibaba Colony, R S Puram and Peelamedu, serpentine queues were seen in all shops and markets. Many residents said they had to come back without shopping as stores ran out of provisions.Since all grocery shops, meat stalls and vegetable markets were opened after a period of four days, the district administration had allowed shops to stay open from 6am to 5pm. From Friday, they would go back to the usual lockdown timing of 6am to 1pm.But throwing caution to the winds, people started thronging vegetable markets in Saibaba Colony, Uzhavar Sandhai at R S Puram, Gandhipuram Bus stand and shops in Peelamedu at the break of dawn..Despite announcements by police personnel and corporation officials, social distancing seemed to be an alien concept at most markets.A resident from Peelamedu said she had gone to a grocery store in the morning to buy essentials. “But there was a long queue in front of the shop, and I came back without buying anything. I went back late afternoon and only then I was able to buy provisions,” she said.At the district collectorate too, there were unending queues of people who had applied for inter district travel passes. The collectorate had suspended the issue of passes during the total lockdown and had resumed it only on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/day-after-complete-lockdown-crammed-markets-a-concern/articleshow/75480226.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Scientists of city lab develop touch-free hand wash system||Coimbatore: The ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering’s regional centre near Perur here has developed a touch-free hand wash system that can be installed in public places such as hospitals, offices, malls, factories and railway stations.As the novel coronavirus spreads through contact and washing hands for 20 seconds is one of the ways to prevent it, the touch-free system will add another layer of safety, principal scientist T Senthilkumar said.The system uses a sensor, which activates a pump to discharge soap and water when a person places hand near the tap. “We came up with the idea after the lockdown was imposed. The system was designed in 15 days. It can be operated with an AC power connection or a battery or a solar panel,” Senthilkumar, who developed the system with the help of Syed Imran, another scientist at the centre, said.The system has a 75-litre water tank, which can also be customised. The automated set up consists of a photo diffuser sensor, which senses the presence of a hand to turn on a pump, which effects the flow of liquid soap from the dispenser and water from the tank. In a single time, up to 5ml of soap is dispensed from the dispenser and 100ml water is dispensed from the tank. The discharge can also be regulated to avoid water wastage. “Normally, when we wash hands, we use around 300ml to 400ml water. But our automated system dispenses only 100ml of water per discharge. The cost of the system is Rs 10,000. We plan to tie-up with manufacturers,” Senthilkumar said. He can be contacted at 9842955606.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/scientists-of-city-lab-develop-touch-free-hand-wash-system/articleshow/75480230.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Only 12% seeds available in district for kharif sowing||Kolhapur: After the pre-monsoon showers, farmers have initiated the process of kharif sowing. The sowing activity will pick up soon in the district, but farmers are facing a paucity of the seeds.According to the district agricultural department, to sow an area of 2.53 lakh hectare, around 31,000 quintal of seeds are needed. At present, only 4,000 quintals are available. The department has said the seeds will be made available in intervals ensuring that there is no shortage by the time the actual sowing begins in the district.Paddy, soybean, ragi, maize, jowar, cereals and groundnut are the main kharif crops sown in the Kolhapur district.The four-month season starts by the end of June and ends in October. However, the farmers start preparations by April end and May.Dnyaneshwar Wakure, Kolhapur district agricultural officer, said: “We are ensuring that farmers get the adequate seeds for sowing during kharif season. At present, we have 4000 quintals of seeds of paddy in various agricultural seed shops in the district. The other seeds will be made available in intervals.”“Every year, in March or April, we convey the message to the department about the requirement for seeds for the next year. The information is passed on to seed producing companies which keep the seeds ready and allocate the same to shops in the district,” he said.“We fear the lockdown will have an impact on the sale of seeds. If the lockdown is extended further, it will be difficult for us to get the seeds to sell to the farmers,” said a Radhanagari-based shop owner.Sanjay Patil, a paddy farmer from Gargoti said, “We need paddy seeds by May 20. We hope the government will lift the lockdown so that we can start our agricultural activities.”According to the officials, farming activities generally start with the onset of the pre-monsoon showers. Activities like preparing the farm for cultivation, cleaning land peripheries and getting them ready for sowing and cultivation need manpower and machines. These activities were affected by the lockdown. Some of the activities began after the government relaxed the norms after April 20, but the boundaries cut between villages hampered the movement of workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/only-12-seeds-available-in-district-for-kharif-sowing/articleshow/75480233.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 1, 2020||Goa||To make Goa self-sufficient, economic panel moots agri revival||PANAJI: The state’s economic revival committee, in its final report submitted to the government on Thursday, has laid maximum thrust on boosting agricultural and allied activities to make Goa self-sufficient. It has recommended that taxi operators, who have been considerably affected due to the slump in tourism and the Covid-19 pandemic, be integrated with the agriculture sector to supply items to farmers and transport their produce to markets or horticulture outlets. The committee has also suggested that taxi operators be integrated with e-commerce operators. Goa could take the lead in pioneering urban farming in the country, the committee has said, by using growbags on open terraces of housing colonies, open spaces around schools and colleges, government buildings and high-rise buildings. It has also suggested backyard poultry/duck-rearing, as per feasibility. Hi-tech agriculture like aquaponics, aeroponics, vertical farming, etc, could be encouraged as part of peri-urban/urban farming, it said, even as it recommended the setting up of an agro park and revival of agriculture in fallow lands with lessee farmers. Reduction in interest rates to ensure survival of industries, resumption of mining and boosting hinterland tourism are among the other measures that have been recommended. The 16-member committee has stated in its report that there is an urgent need to revisit the strengthening of Goa’s manufacturing industry. As far as the IT sector and startups are concerned, it has pushed for the promotion of home-grown startups to attract investment into Goa. Convincing established startups from around India to shift base to Goa would also help the ecosystem grow, it has said. With regard to e-governance for ease of doing business, the committee, headed by industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar, has recommended administrative reforms like creating a department of telecommunication and electronics and a department of education, human resource development and skill development by merging the existing ones. It has further suggested that the department of factories and boilers be merged with the department of industry and that the finance department’s PPP cell be converted into a full-fledged PPP investment cell. Raising concerns that Goa has an approximate migrant population of three lakh, the committee has recommended that the government finalise the state population policy at the earliest. “We need to carefully devise value chains of labour and ensure that no new influx takes place that will create immense pressure on the stressed social infrastructure besides creating a major impact on the state’s identity and demography,” the committee has said. It has sought that the National Disaster Management Authority extend the moratorium for the repayment of any kind of loans from the present three months to six months for regular industries, and 12 months for the tourism industry. The committee also wants the government to urge the Centre to amend legislation for resumption of mining activities. Pitching for tourism in Goa to be made more inclusive, it has sought development of the hinterlands for eco-tourism, village tourism, adventure tourism, forest tourism, cultural tourism, among others. “Goa needs tourism based on carrying capacity and regulated with quality and class tourism, rather than mass scale with more ecological footprints putting stress on resources. Going beyond beaches, knowledge-based eco-tourism, agro eco-tourism, mangrove/crocodile safaris and nature trails in a regulated way for ecological sustainability involving locals with trained eco-guides should be promoted,” the committee has said. It has recommended that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) be strengthened so as to make it the lead institution in financing economic development in the state. It has also said that the government set up a task force to redefine economic growth and the Centre’s Sagarmala project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eye-on-self-sustenance-econ-panel-for-massive-push-to-agri-in-goa/articleshow/75481767.cms||Murari Shetye
May 1, 2020||Pune||Fresh hope for stranded as Maharashtra rolls out process||PUNE: The state government’s order on Thursday on allowing stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others to go home came as a respite to hundreds. Many have been tweeting to the police, state and district authorities for passes or permits to travel. Speaking to TOI, Prakash Goswami, who has been stuck in Pune since March 14, said he came to meet a friend and had booked tickets to go back to Lucknow for April 1, but all the flights were suspended. “I have aged parents with health issues, a wife and a job in Lucknow. My company has told me to start work from home or I may lose my job. My laptop and business documents are in Lucknow,” he said. A student in Pune recently tweeted, “I’m requesting the police for a helpline no. to contact for students like me who are stuck in a different state due to this epidemic. We are 25 students who are stuck in Pune and want to go back to our families in UP.” A parent from Akola, who requested anonymity, told TOI, “My 16-year-old daughter has been stuck in Pune since March 19. She studied in a Panchgani hostel and was returning to Akola. Pune was her transit stop. Her 92-year-old grandfather keeps asking me when she will return. We all want to be together.” Shivam Baghla, a 24-year-old postgraduate student of computer engineering, has been wanting to return to his hometown in Abohar, Punjab since March. “My dad recently underwent cancer treatment in Delhi and returned to Abohar on April 15. My parents need me, and I am stuck here,” he said. Vimal Pratap Singh, a cake delivery boy, did his best to return to his family in Sitapur in UP. “The company where I work is shut. I have been desperately trying to contact government authorities in Lucknow to help me. They responded saying that as soon as they hear from the Maharashta government, they will notify me,” he said. Nilambuj Singh, a 22-year-old working professional from Aundh, and three others are also stranded. “Our company shut and we did not receive April salaries. We have to pay rent and buy food, but money is short. We want to go back to our families in Singrauli in MP,” he said. A Pune resident tweeted to state government authorities on April 23, “Me and my family are stuck in Bangalore from 14 March. Our dog is in Pune hostel and the bill is already more than 20k . My husband’s job is at stake due to connectivity issue. We’ll drive our own car. We need to return to our home in Pune. Please help!!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hope-for-stranded-after-state-orders-home-return/articleshow/75482156.cms||Neha Madaan
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Unseasonal rains wreak havoc in Telangana, flatten crop in 61,000 acres||HYDERABAD: Already reeling from lack of transportation to carry their produce to the markets and shortage of workers, the farming community has suffered yet another blow with unseasonal rains hitting the state in the past few weeks. The state agriculture department estimates that crops in 61,000 acres suffered damages in the past few days due to the showers and pegged the loss at around Rs 331 crore. They claim over 27,800 farmers, especially those growing paddy and jowar, had suffered losses because of the crop damage. Agriculture officials estimate that paddy in 59,000 acres and jowar in 1,000 acres got damaged between April 3 and April 27. The officials discovered that the crop loss was extensive in 150 mandals mostly in Adilabad, Rangareddy, Rajanna Sircilla, Nalgonda, Wanaparthy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Gadwal, Sangareddy, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Jangaon, Yadadri-Bhongir, Medak, Vikarabad, Warangal Rural and Jagtial districts. Farmers are worried that they would have more problems due to lockdown. “I had 15 acres under paddy cultivation. With unseasonal rain, we are at a loss, we don’t know when will the compensation come,” BV Yadav, a farmer from Chevella said. The agriculture department has pegged the loss due to crop damage at Rs 331 crore based on scale of relief estimates. Another paddy farmer stated that rice millers were taking advantage of the situation and paying them less as the paddy got drenched. “The state government should step in and stop this exploitation” Srinivas Reddy, a farmer from Vikarabad, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unseasonal-rains-wreak-havoc-in-telangana-flatten-crop-in-61k-acres/articleshow/75481170.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad records highest single-day tally of 249||AHMEDABAD: The city on Thursday cemented its status as a national Covid-19 hotspot with 249 cases reported in 24 hours, or one every six minutes. The earlier highest number of cases in one day was 239 on April 18. The city has been recording more than 150 cases a day for the past seven days, with more than 200 emerging for the past two days. Only Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi have crossed the 3,000 cases mark as of Thursday evening. The city is third in India after Mumbai and Delhi in terms of absolute cases. Intensive testing is the driving force behind the high numbers, said state health department officials. In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat had carried out 4,519 tests of which 41% were carried out in Ahmedabad alone. Gujarat has crossed 64,000 tests on Thursday, of which 27,341 were conducted in Ahmedabad, or 42.7% of total tests. “Analysis of the cases shows that the majority are reported from known hotspots such as Dariapur, Kalupur, Astodia, Khadia, Jamalpur, Danilimda, Behrampura, etc. However, in the past few days, areas such as Vasna, Khokhra, Geeta Mandir, Saraspur, etc. have also started reporting more cases,” said a senior health department official. “Contact tracing in almost all cases is being conducted to identify persons who could be infected. Each identified case can prevent many potential ones.” Officials added that measures such as social distancing and the lockdown are crucial to reducing the number of active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-highest-single-day-tally-of-249/articleshow/75481205.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guidelines for Samras Covid care centre out||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal corporation issued a set of guidelines asking people who have tested positive for Covid but are asymptomatic and are being kept at Samras Hostel to clean their own rooms and stay indoors. It also advicsed them to get as much rest as possible. The guidelines state that those admitted will have to clean the lobby area near their rooms. The guidelines say patients should not spit in the lobby or out the window. Also, food provided has to be consumed in the room only and in no circumstance should one leave the room with food. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra confirmed that the AMC has issued the guidelines and are announcing them on the public address system in the hostel. However, about residents being made to clean the lobby, Nehra said this was ordered initially, but AMC staff is now doing this. As all residents are Covid-19 positive, they will have to clean their own rooms as sanitation workers could be infected if they do it. The AMC has also warned these asymptomatic patients that any violation of these directions could invite action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The AMC directs patients not to share buckets, chairs, or beds with other patients. The guidelines also make it mandatory for staff supplying food to wear mask and gloves. AMC warns that the entire hostel is under CCTV surveillance and any breach will invite punitive action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guidelines-for-samras-covid-care-centre-out/articleshow/75481193.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Experts say supervision will be key to effective self-isolation||PUNE: Home isolation of "mildly symptomatic" persons will be effective only if there is a plan in place to ensure their constant monitoring, medical specialists have said. Some of them suggested the individuals be linked with doctors via a telemedicine platform. The observations come a day after the Union health ministry said people with very mild Covid-19 symptoms can self-isolate at home provided they have space and the means - including 24x4 caregivers and access to separate toilets - to do so. Health experts said on Wednesday the move will reduce the burden on local administrations that have been struggling to set up more quarantine centres. But they said administrations should ensure the people at home are being monitored in accordance with clearly laid out rules and regulations. The state president of the Indian Medical Association, Avinash Bhondwe, said the Centre's guidelines on home isolation will definitely reduce patient burden for hospitals and quarantine centres. “But these individuals should be properly counselled on the dos and dont's of home isolation. The guidelines to test these individuals (regularly) should be scientific, everyone should know the minimum duration of isolation and once a person is cured, he or she should be provided with a certificate to avoid social discrimination. Importantly, we have to have doctors monitoring these individuals via a telemedicine platform," Bhondwe said. Public health expert R Jotkar said quarantine centres could be overwhelmed if there's a spike in cases after lockdowns ease. "What will happen if there is an increase in the number of suspects or actual cases? These centres will not be enough to handle the load," Jotkar said. He said self-isolation was the only to ensure community participation in the fight against - and containment of - Covid-19. Rajesh Swarnakar, the Nagpur-based pulmonologist whose PIL had prompted the Supreme Court to direct the Union government to take a decision on matter, said quarantine centres were hurting the state exchequer. He added that having these centres in hospitals was putting lives of healthcare workers at risk. “It is a fact that 85% of Covid-19 cases recover on their own. Only 15% require hospital admission, 5% require ICU care and only 3% - the elderly and those with comorbidities - face the highest risk. Patients who show mild symptoms are being admitted to hospitals. We have spent so much exchequer money by unnecessarily admitting and treating the mildly symptomatic in hospitals when they could've recovered at home, under supervision," Swarnakar said. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, who is awaiting state orders, said a uniform approach cannot be adopted in these cases. Ram highlighted the problems in slums while adding that adequate information needs to be collected to determine if there are individuals willing to help those isolating at home. There are currently over 100 quarantine centres in the region. Collectors have been given powers to requisition hotels, educational institutions and sports arenas if need for more space arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/supervision-care-vital-to-home-isolation-experts/articleshow/75482152.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Containment measures pay off, more areas to go green||Coimbatore: Mettupalayam is likely to be denotified as a containment zone on May 8. It was one of the first Covid-19 clusters to appear on the district map, when 21 residents tested positive for the virus there. The containment programme is active in at least 12 wards in Mettupalayam panchayat.Public health department authorities said all the 12 wards have been remaining sealed for the past 20 days. They could be expected to be taken off the containment zone list on May 10, provided they don’t see any new cases, said a source.While Saibaba Colony and K Pudur were denotified as a containment zone on April 17, there are 25 containment zones in the district presently. An official said the next zone that was expected to leave the list was Mettupalayam.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We sealed these wards in the first weekend of April. The last set of cases that were reported from these areas were on April 10, when some patients’ family members and contacts tested positive. If these wards don’t report new cases until May 8, they will move into green zone. Once that happens, we will remove the barricades and open roads.”Entering the green zone would mean more freedom of movement for residents - they will be allowed to walk or drive to shops to buy groceries and meat, receive milk and newspapers from vendors at their doorstep, and go to work, if they are employed with essential industries.A resident of Syrian Church Road said, “Right now, we are not allowed to leave our house for walk or to go to a shop or pharmacy. Our movement is restricted to the barricaded area from where essential commodities are being supplied to us.”Another 14 areas, including a few within the city corporation limits such as RS Puram, Ramanathapuram and Raja Street, and suburbs such as Thondamuthur, Anamalai and Kavundampalayam, are also likely to be denotified as containment zones by May 11. The last time when these areas had recorded a positive case was between April 11 and 13.Dr Kumar said, “All these areas haven’t reported any new Covid-19 cases for the past 15 days or so and hence entered the orange zone. But as per the protocol, we cannot relax many norms as yet. However, we can remove the barricades from roads once they complete 28 days of containment and move into the green zone.”Six of the remaining 10 containment zones - including Annur, Athu Pollachi and Gandhi Nagar - are expected to be denotified as containment zones on May 18, if they do not report any new cases. The last four areas to be lifted from containment zones would be Vellakinar, Kurudampalayam, Kuniyamuthur, Podanur and Sirumugai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/containment-measures-pay-off-more-areas-to-go-green/articleshow/75480254.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur textile units to hum back to life||Coimbatore: If all goes well, the engines of the apparel cluster in Tirupur would be kickstarted over the next week. The Tirupur district administration is in favour of resuming industrial operations in all places of the textile hub excluding containment zones. Authorities have expressed their views for reopening the textile units in the report on their suggestions and recommendations on lockdown exit strategy sent to the state government. Once the recommendations are accepted, roughly 85% of the apparel units would bounce back to business. “If the government gives the nod, all the industries outside the containment zones would resume operations,’’ said a senior official. However, the industries would not go full throttle to start with and there would be enough checks and balances keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation.For the multi-million-dollar forex earning textile units that were staring at an uncertain future, the recommendation of the authorities has come as a relief. But the officials have told the industrialists that they must exercise utmost caution to ensure that the units do not become breeding grounds for Covid-19 patients. “It is the onus of the units to ensure that there is no violation of rules,’’ the official said. The apparel units should strictly adhere to social distancing norms and other rules like wearing face masks. The industries however said that they cannot operate to their full capacity right from Day 1 of reopening and that they would start with 25% workforce. “We are not ready to take any risk now by resuming 100 % operations. We would start and slowly increase our workforce,’’ said an industrialist. The industrialists have been demanding the government to allow reopening of units so that they can make sample pieces of garments which can be sent to their buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-textile-units-to-hum-back-to-life/articleshow/75480242.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three private hospitals in Ahmedabad to treat Covid-19 cases for free||AHMEDABAD: After a meeting with doctors in the walled city, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided that they should start their clinics, as fever clinics, and AMC will provide PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitizers for free. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said, “AMC officials had a meeting with doctors operating in the ‘red zone’ areas of Khadia, Jamalpur, Shahpur, Danilimda, Behrampura and Dariapur, and it was decided to start fever clinics in these areas. This will help the corporation find patients with Covid-19 symptoms and treat them immediately.” The commissioner said that the corporation will not only fumigate such hospitals and clinics but will also provide PPEs, N95 masks, sanitizers and gloves. Nehra further said that a hospital run by Isha Foundation has been converted into a Covid care centre and it will treat patients for free. If required the AMC will provide staff. Another hospital in Chandkheda, attached to a medical college, will also give free treatment to Covid patients. The commissioner said that government is in talks with authorities of the Gujarat Cancer Society and their hospital will also soon start treating Covid patients. Nehra said that Ahmedabad’s case doubling rate is now nine days, from four days earlier. On April 17, there were 557 Covid patients and the number grew to 1,162 on April 20. The April 20 number of 1,162 then doubled on April 29. “We want the case doubling rate to be 11 to 12 days. “Even if the nine-day doubling rate continues, the city will have 15,000 cases by May 15,” said Nehra. Nehra said that the growth rate of active cases for the past nine days was eight percent and the AMC aims to reduce this to five percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-cases-for-free/articleshow/75481194.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Class X-XII students can submit forms by May 13 for extra marks||PUNE: Students of Class X and XII, who have appeared for board examinations, can now submit forms for securing extra marks for participating in sports, NCC, scouts and guides, dance/music/instrumental competitions till May 13. The earlier deadline was April 30 which has been extended till May 13 due to Covid-19, said a notification issued by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. As per the earlier order, principals of schools or junior colleges were supposed to collect the filled-in forms requesting grace marks from respective students and submit them to the district sports officer between January 1 and April 5. The sports officer was supposed to scrutinise these forms and send the recommended applications to the divisional state board by April 30. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, many forms could not be submitted to the district sports officer in the stipulated time period, said Ashok Bhosale secretary, state board. Similarly, students who have excelled in classical art forms, drawings and those who have participated in folk art forms were supposed to send in their application forms for additional marks to their respective schools by February 15. The schools were supposed to scrutinise these forms and send the appropriate ones to the divisional state board. But it has also not happened due to the lockdown. Discussions were on in the government about extending the last dates for submission of the forms for students who have appeared for Class X and XII board exams in 2019-20, said the notification. As per the new decision released by the board, the application for grace marks of students, who have participated in sports/NCC/Scouts and Guides, need to be sent to the district sports officer by May 13 and the DSO needs to submit the recommended applications by May 20. Similarly, students eligible for additional marks due to their excellence in classical art forms, drawing or folk art forms would also need to submit their applications by May 13 with the respective schools. The schools have been instructed to submit these forms after scrutiny to the divisional boards by May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/class-x-xii-students-can-submit-forms-by-may-13-for-extra-marks/articleshow/75482162.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chennai||As Tamil Nadu awaits lockdown exit, cases hit 161 in one day; 138 in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu and Chennai recorded their highest daily increase in Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday and, as demand for hospital beds in the city went up, pressure mounted on public health authorities to move asymptomatic patients out of them. The state recorded 161 fresh cases, the count crossing three digits for the third day in a row, and Chennai accounted for 138 of them. Several other districts too reported cases after a gap of several days. By evening, all four city government hospitals had more than 150 patients, and deans were pushing the state health administration to move asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms out of hospitals to Covid care centres for isolation and treatment, with enough nurses and doctors. “It is a protocol suggested by the ICMR. We are examining it,” a senior official said. Increase in cases is expected in an epidemic, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “We are testing at least 7,000 people statewide daily, including 2,000 in Chennai. We are looking for cases and getting them.” However, the state has high recovery rates and low mortality , the minister said. Health officials said Chennai’s expanding clusters were now impacting the neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. For instance, a cancer patient discharged from the Adyar Cancer Institute a week ago tested positive with four family members in Chengalpet. “We are seeing similar trends in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram as well. Most of them had visited hotspots such as markets in Chennai,” said a senior official at the directorate of public health. While Chengalpet recorded five cases, Kancheepuram recorded three and Tiruvallur had one case on Thursday. Vegetable and fruit vendors in Koyambedu and markets and grocers across Chennai are feeding the clusters. On Thursday, even as a large section of the Koyambedu market complex closed for disinfection, 10 vendors tested positive. Less than 3km away, seven family members of a vendor residing at Ayyappa Nagar near Chinmaya Nagar in Virugambakkam tested positive.  “We are telling people not to visit markets and grocers every day. The elderly and vulnerable should take help from neighbours,” said Greater Chennai Corporation joint commissioner, health, Madhusudan Reddy. Health workers fanned out into crowded areas of Teeds Garden in Perambur, Thattankulam in Choolai and Adam Street in Triplicane. One the largest clusters was in one lane in Thattankulam – 11 people who caught the virus from a fever surveillance officer, who was infected in the line of duty. On Thursday, 48 people were discharged from various hospitals across TN taking the total number of people discharged to 1,258. However, the number of active cases – people in hospital with Covid-19 infection -- has been steadily increasing. From 809 on Monday, it touched 1,035 on Thursday.  Several districts reported cases on Thursday after a lull. A person from Salem tested positive after a gap of five days. Madurai reported five new cases after two days. Ramanathapuram recorded three cases after a gap of three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-state-awaits-lockdown-exit-cases-hit-161-in-1-day-138-in-city/articleshow/75481184.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Siddha medicine distributed in villages||Coimbatore: Isha Outreach, Isha Foundation’s social outreach initiative, distributed siddha medicine nilavembu kashayam in Muttathuvayal, Mullangadu, Madakaadu and Singapathi villages of Thondamuthur block on Thursday.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/siddha-medicine-distributed-in-villages/articleshow/75480258.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civil service aspirants struggle to find assistance in getting back home||PUNE: A number of students travel to the city to join classes that help them prepare for the civil services examination. With the city under continued lockdown, these students have now written to the district administration to allow them to go back to their hometowns. The main reason cited by the candidates is the lack of money to pay rent, difficulty accessing meals and the resultant rise in living expenses. The students hail from Osmanabad, Amravati, Beed, Jalgaon, Gondia, Nashik, Yavatmal, Wardha, Kolhapur, among others. A list of nearly 1,373 such candidates has been prepared by the MPSC Students’ Rights, an association of civil service aspirants, and submitted to the district administration. As of now, the association provides meals to 950 students everyday while about 500 students arrange for their own meals. Surendra Wanjari from Kolhapur has been waiting to go back home since the past three weeks. He said, “This lockdown is likely to extend so the burden of rent and food will remain. We had taken up part-time jobs but since it was in the service industry, we are uncertain about it” Mahesh Bade of the association said, “We have arranged meals for 950 students till May 3 but the lockdown is likely to be extended. There is also a shortage of LPG cylinders, vegetables and foodgrains. If this continues, students will suffer. We have requested the administration to make arrangements to send them back to their hometowns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civil-service-aspirants-struggle-to-find-assistance-in-getting-back-home/articleshow/75482177.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Two arrested for hunting civet cat||MADIKERI: Two people have been arrested by the forest department for hunting a civet cat in Malambi Reserve Forest area. The accused are HS Lohith and HS Suresh. On Wednesday night they entered the forest and shot a civet cat using a double barrel gun. When they were returning with the carcass they were caught by RFO K Kotresh and other forest staff. On interrogation they said they hunted the cat for its meat. They were arrested under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “Civet cats are among the endangered species. Stringent action will be taken against the accused,” said Kotresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-arrested-for-hunting-civet-cat/articleshow/75479285.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Bonds, deposits help Telangana raise Rs 8,000 crore||HYDERABAD: While Telangana had more than Rs 5,000 crore in its kitty thanks to various tax receipts in April 2019, the state has about Rs 8,000 crore pooled from various sources, including loans, in this month. The state otherwise did not have any substantial revenues, expect from the sale of petrol which got it Rs 550 crore. According to sources, the government has about Rs 1,000 crore deposits of various departments in banks. Some time back, the government had sought information from the departments on their finances when it had decided to auction bonds at the RBI. The government has earned Rs 4,000 crore through bonds and another Rs 3,000 crore was accrued from the Centre under various categories. All this totals Rs 8,000 crore, including Rs 1,000 crore as deposits. “We are sure of managing the finance situation now. We will be able to do the required payments as well,” said an official. Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said the rural economy is very strong. The state government is purchasing all the paddy and other important produce. “We have many irrigation projects going on. Cement industry and construction related works will go on as per schedule to keep the economy going,” he told TOI. According to him, after the major part of the lockdown is lifted, Telangana will have a quick economic recovery in comparison to other states. The state requires Rs 1,700 crore to Rs 2,000 crore towards salaries and other payments for government employees and Rs 830 crore for Aasara pension. About Rs 1,200 crore is needed for the government to meet special support extended to all the ration card holders during the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bonds-deposits-help-state-raise-rs-8000cr/articleshow/75481209.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||1 suspected, 2 confirmed cases emerge in Bopal||AHMEDABAD: Within a radius of 250m from the Bopal vegetable market near Bhavya Park, eight confirmed Covid-19 cases and one suspected case have been reported. On Thursday, two confirmed cases were reported at Kadamb Flats while the report of another resident of the apartment complex is still awaited. Ahmedabad district excluding the city limits till Thursday morning had reported 35 cases, of which 26 were form Daskroi taluka which includes Bopal, Ghuma and other areas. Officials said that in the last 24 hours ending on Thursday morning, all four fresh cases reported were in Daskroi taluka. Late on Thursday evening the district health team took three patients away, all from Kadamb Flats. “The three have been taken late in the evening and how they got infected is still not known. Of the three, two are a mother-in-law and daughter-in-law duo, while the third person is a male from different block of Kadamb Flats,” said Jigna Shah, president of Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika. Shah said that from Bopal, including these three cases, there are a total of six persons under treatment for Covid-19, while three have recovered. So far, barring Thursday’s three cases, none got infection through local source. One case was of AMC assistant commissioner Deven Bhatt, who got infected by a colleague, a 48-old male got the infection from his workplace at Ramol, and in the case of four patients from Prasanti Homes, the 58-year-old male had gone to gone for a check-up from where he is said to have got the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-suspected-2-confirmed-cases-emerge-in-bopal/articleshow/75481200.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kanpur||‘Giving sample for Covid-19 test does not break roza’||KANPUR: Three corona positive cases were reported in the district on Thursday, taking the tally to 209. Earlier, a positive case in district was reported on Wednesday night when a cloth merchant having shop at Generalganj wholesale market in city tested positive for coronavirus. “The trader, a resident of Lal Bangla, had got himself tested at a private lab. He was admitted to Kanshiram Trauma Centre when he confirmed positive,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The trader had recently visited a relative admitted to a hospital in Delhi. His family and relatives have been quarantined, while Lal Bangla area is being sanitized, he added. CMO Dr Shukla also made an appeal to Muslims to come for test if they feel any breathing problem. “Muslims are observing ‘roza’ and they may feel that getting tested may involve medication which would break their fast, but it is not true. The sample is taken on cotton which is not medicated, so giving sample would not break roza,” he said. Dr Shukla went on to appeal Muslim leadership to tell him an appropriate time to send team to collect samples so that apprehensions of breaking roza are removed. “Tests are necessary as they indicate where we stand. Teams have collected samples of 80 persons from Jajmau, Cantonment, medical college campus and Chunniganj who were in contact with cases and quarantined them,” he added. Meanwhile, nodal officer Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, who is also principal secretary PWD, and ADG Jai Narayan Singh visited hotspots in the city with DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and SSP/DIG Anant Deo. They first visited Anwarganj and inquired about home delivery and were told that contact numbers had been provided to residents, who said they were getting items and there was no problem. They also visited Chamanganj and Beconganj hotspots and instructed officials to maintain social distancing strictly. Police checked 4,049 vehicles at 146 barriers in the city and realized Rs 5,000 fine from 1,384 vehicles for violating rules and seized 6 vehicles and registered cases against 52 persons for violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/giving-sample-for-covid-test-does-not-break-roza/articleshow/75481188.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 1, 2020||Kanpur||125 booked, 10 arrested for attack on medical team, cops in Kanpur||KANPUR: Police on Friday booked 125 people and held nearly 10 for attacking a medical and police teams in Jugiyana locality of Bajaria area of the city on Wednesday. To recall, the incident had occurred after a medical and police team had gone to Jugiyana locality of Bajaria on Wednesday to take nine members of a family, who were in contact with a coronavirus victim, to a quarantine centre for isolation. Their neighbours offered resistance and hurled stones at the medical and police team. Giving more information on it, SSP/DIG Anant Deo said, “People should understand that we are putting each and every effort of ours to keep them safe from coronavirus. Yesterday, when our medical and police team tried to escort nine members of a family, who were in contact with a corona afflicted person in Jugiyana locality, they started pelting stones”. Following this, 125 unidentified persons have been booked and 10 others taken into custody, the SSP said “Based on CCTV video footage, police have identified 25 of the total 125 people. After investigations, they will be booked under various sections of IPC and the NSA will also be invoked against them”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/125-booked-10-arrested-for-attack-on-medical-team-cops/articleshow/75481196.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Collector for phased resumption of industrial work||MADURAI: Southern districts have suggested phased resumption of industrial activities which involve many people as part of their exit plan in the safe zones after May 3. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay said since all the hotbeds of the disease were now within the city limits, he had suggested that industries in the rural areas could be allowed to function in a phased manner. They would have to adhere to all norms like social distancing, disinfection and reduction of employees. Industries in the city, especially those in the eleven containment zones, have no hope of starting work immediately. Orders are awaited from the state government on planning the opening procedures. Tirunelveli district, on the other hand, is thinking of immediately allowing beedi industry workers to start working from home, by supplying them raw materials. District Collector Shilpa Prabhakar said this was discussed at the meeting with the chief minister on Wednesday. There are about 2,51,164 workers in this industry, many of whom are from the poorer sections of the society. There are nine containment zones in Tirunelveli which are being given special attention. There are many beedi workers at places including Palayamkottai, Melapalayam, Kalakkad and Erwadi. Their livelihood had been affected due to the lockdown and resumption of work would help them. It would be ensured that they practise safety measures when they start working, she said. Dindigul district has a labour force of about 27,000 in various industries. Collector M Vijayalakshmi at a review meeting held on Thursday said there were 24 garment industries, 171 textile units, 250 coconut pith industries, 64 dyeing units, 15 tanneries and 30 industries within the industrial estate that employed these workers. The industries have been asked to work out their requirement of workers immediately and in future. Employing workers on a rotational basis and ensuring proper social distancing have also been stressed. They would also have to take care of the safety measures. Ground supervisors have been appointed to monitor activities under MGNREGS and they would have to report the daily activities to the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/collector-for-phased-resumption-of-industrial-work/articleshow/75481213.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||GBRC signs MoU for Covid-19 vaccine, diagnostics||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) working under Department of Science and Technology, government of Gujarat, on Thursday signed three MoUs with state-based pharmaceutical research and development companies for the development of vaccine and diagnostics for Covid-19. The ceremony took place in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. GBRC director C G Joshi was unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts through calls and SMS. Sources close to the development said that the research would be based on the existing genome sequencing of the Covid-19 found in Gujarat. It will also take into account the future attempts where plans are afoot to analyse 100-odd samples from different parts of the state taken from the patients including asymptomatic, severely affected and deceased. The GBRC had recently claimed that the strain it found during sequencing was L-type which was similar to the one found in Wuhan, China. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gbrc-signs-mou-for-covid-19-vaccine-diagnostics/articleshow/75481220.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal tally crosses 500 mark, death toll rises to 15||Bhopal: Twenty-five more people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state capital, taking the total number of cases to 508, here on Thursday. Health department bulletin also reported one more COVID-19 related death in Bhopal, taking the total number of cases to 15. A 35-year-old gas victim resident of Mangalwara died in Hamidia hospital. His family said the person died before he was diagnosed positive by the hospital. His funeral was held on April 28. However, seven family members are now in quarantine after they took part in the gas victims’ funeral. Activists claim that so far 13 people who died in Bhopal are gas victims. Health department is also looking into the incident wherein BMC officials were not involved in the funeral, said sources. In one month, between April 1 to 30, Bhopal has reported 504 cases. An average of 16 cases per day or about 20% of all cases in MP, have been reported from Bhopal. Most of them who tested positive are linked to the Tabligi Jamaat, health department and police department. The worst affected areas in the city on Thursday included, Bagh Umraohdullah which reported five positive cases, followed by Jehangirabad, Mangalwara and Old Subash Nagar and Housing Board Colony Laharpur which all reported new COVID-19 cases. Infected include a 7-year-old boy and 10-year-old girl, both of whom are said to be in critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-tally-crosses-500-mark-death-toll-rises-to-15/articleshow/75481223.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Jaleel seeks return of 10 people stuck in Punjab||Aurangabad: MP Imtiyaz Jaleel shot a letter to district collector of Kapurthala, Punjab, on Thursday requesting him to arrange for the return of 10 people from Aurangabad who are stuck there. Social activist from Nanded Ravinder Singh Modi, who is also a senior functionary of gurdwara board, had launched an online campaign for the return of the people stranded in Punjab. Besides contacting Modi, Jaleel also got in touch with a social activist from Kapurthala, Baldev Singh, as well as the stranded Aurangabad residents. In a communication to the Kapurthala district administration, Imtiyaz urged the officials to arrange for an inter-state vehicle pass for the stranded people, among whom is a woman and a three-year-old boy. All of them were staying in a rented apartment in Laxminagar, Kapurthala. The ten people from the city had gone to Kapurthala for working on a mechanical project at a food processing unit in January. While the work was in progress, the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 and eventually, people got stuck there. “Had it not been for the lockdown, we would have completed the work by now and even returned to Aurangabad. Owner of the company Ganesh Birote has been taking efforts to bring us back but is finding it difficult due to the rules and regulations in force because of the lockdown,” said Shaikh Alimoddin, site in-charge of the Kapurthala project. Imtiyaz told TOI that he has made it clear to the authorities that the Kapurthala returnees would be duly screened and quarantined after their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jaleel-seeks-return-of-10-people-stuck-in-punjab/articleshow/75479325.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 1, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: SHO humiliates elderly man going to pray, sent to lines||KANPUR: A video of a police officer scolding and humiliating an old devotee going to pray for violating lockdown norms went viral on social media on Wednesday evening. The video from Panki area shows an elderly man being forced to sit and crawl to the peepul tree where he was going to do ‘jalabhishek’ on the road while holding the ‘puja thali’. The man, a devotee of Lord Hanuman was going to a nearby ‘peepul’ tree to offer prayers and for ‘jalabhishek’ on Wednesday morning amid the lockdown. He was, however, caught by the policeman, who refused to listen to his pleas, and humiliated him. The cop also picked a utensil containing water and poured it in his ‘thali’. In the video, the SHO is also seen mocking him by saying “God is testing you”. Later, in a clarification on its Twitter handle, Kanpur Nagar police said, “The policeman seen in the video is in-charge of Panki police station. As per him, the man apologised for violating lockdown norms and willingly returned to his home.” The SHO’s act, however, drew sharp criticism on social media platforms. SSP/DIG Anant Deo said that SHO Panki Vinod Kumar Singh has been sent to lines. “A probe has been ordered in this regard,” he added. Watch Kanpur: SHO humiliates elderly man going to pray, sent to lines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sho-humiliates-elderly-man-going-to-pray-sent-to-lines/articleshow/75481215.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 1, 2020||Vadodara||On duty cops rescue croc on main road||Vadodara: When they were standing guard near Kala Ghoda circle on Wednesday night, they spotted a four-foot-long crocodile was out on the road. The reptile had ventured out of Vishwamitri River that is home to hundreds of crocodiles. The reptile first crawled near a temple on Kala Ghoda circle stretch and then sat in the middle of the road. It had a free-run as there was no traffic on the road. The crocodile was rescued and handed over to forest department. Meanwhile, in another incident, cops posted at Sama police station too had a run-in with another reptile on Wednesday night. A cobra had entered one of the rooms of the police station. A cop spotted it and called up wildlife activists. They rescued the reptile from the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/on-duty-cops-rescue-croc-on-main-road/articleshow/75478302.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Micro cluster plan on cards to exit lockdown in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to adopt the micro cluster strategy from the first week of May to exit the Covid-19 lockdown and give some relief to people in the sealed areas, besides reducing the number of containment zones. Under the new strategy, only a small area around a coronavirus patient’s home would be sealed. In the case of housing societies, only the building where the patient stays, and in the case of slums, only the pocket where a positive patient resides would be sealed. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the strategy was aimed at ensuring that people did not suffer unnecessarily. “The PMC had declared the entire city a containment zone based on the prevailing condition around a fortnight ago. Now, we shall review the status of the virus spread across the city. The relaxations in the containment zones would hinge on its outcome. We have to give relief to those not in the vicinity of the affected areas. Our strategy also aims at bringing city life back to normal with all precautionary measures,” he told TOI. Gaikwad said 13 of the 15 ward offices were in the red zone at the time of imposing the restrictions. Now, the PMC would reduce the parameters for sealing from the ward office-level to smaller areas within the wards. It could be taken up at a micro-level such as a housing society or a slum pocket, he said. The commissioner had first sealed the city’s core parts, including the Peth areas (Maharshinagar to RTO) and some locations in Kondhwa, on April 6. Following the spread of the virus, a few more areas, including Shivajinagar, Ahmednagar Road, Parvati and some areas on Satara Road, were added to the list of sealed areas on April 13. The decision to expand the containment zone to the whole city was taken on April 20. Gaikwad said, “The PMC is keeping an eye on the decisions of the Union and state governments regarding the lockdown. The final call about relaxing the containment zones in the city will be taken according to their directives.” According to the PMC officials, the areas would be categorised into green, orange and red zones based on the number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths. Early relaxations are likely in the green zones, while some concessions would be offered in the orange zone. The red zones would have the least relaxations. Earlier, restrictions were imposed on the movement of citizens after the containment zones were declared. With the whole city now a containment zone, entry and exit from the city has been barred. Internal transport and travels have also been restricted. Only vehicles and people offering essential services, the media and those working for the mitigation of the Covid-19 spread can now commute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-cluster-plan-on-cards-to-exit-lockdown-in-city/articleshow/75482186.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Indore||Secure your money, cybercrime cases double in Indore during lockdown||INDORE: The criminal minds too have evolved during this pandemic. While there has been a significant drop in number of heinous crimes in city, cybercrime cases have spiked since lockdown. According to crime branch officials, at least one case of cybercrime is received by them every day. In past one month, 45 cases have been received by the special cell of crime branch of which mostly are Facebook related frauds followed by online wallet scams. ASP Rajesh Dandotiya said that the cases have doubled as compared to March when the lockdown had started. “After the lockdown, we had created a special cell comprising 20 officials in four different teams who look into cyber related frauds. While number of cases was normal during March last week, cases doubled in April,” said ASP crime branch Dandotiya. He said that during lockdown period, phishing and scamming cases have increased manifold. Messages which try to induce recipients to enter passwords or other sensitive information on websites controlled by hackers, who then use the data to take control of bank, email or other accounts, have also been on the rise. For this, accused are known to have created fake Facebook ids of people and asked for money from their friends. “This is the most common fraud which we have come across these days. The accused create a fake id and befriend the common friends of the victim and ask them for money citing some reasons. Highest 15 cases out of 45 were related to such frauds,” said Dandotiya. Apart from Facebook frauds, Paytm, Phonepay and OTP frauds are also on the rise. “We have received 7 complaints related to Phonepay fraud when people tried to purchase something online and they were duped by the accused, 4 Paytm frauds and 2 OTP fraud complaints have also been received,” he said. The department has its hands full with rumours, fake news and hate speech spread about coronavirus through social media apps. The team is also screening WhatsApp messages, Facebook, Instagram stories, Telegram posts and TikTok videos. Meanwhile, SP cyber crime Jitendra Singh also claimed that increasing number of cases had been received in Indore cell of state cyber police with highest number of Facebook frauds and fake id creation. He said that since the lockdown, they have recorded 68 such cases under different categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/secure-your-money-cybercrime-cases-double-during-lockdown/articleshow/75480331.cms||Karishma Kotwal
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Daily wager held for molesting girl in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old daily wage labourer was taken into custody for outraging the modesty of a minor girl on Thursday in LB Nagar. The accused is a resident of Bandlaguda under LB Nagar police station limits. The 11-year-old daughter of a vegetable vendor was selling vegetables in front of their home when the accused came there. He allegedly held her hands and misbehaved with her. Following a complaint, the daily wager was booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC apart from relevant sections of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/daily-wager-held-for-molesting-girl/articleshow/75481235.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Madurai||TN has ample paddy stock, says minister||Madurai: The minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar, on Thirsday, said that this year 21 lakh metric tonnes of paddy have been procured throughout the state as 2,061 paddy procurement centres have been across Tamil Nadu, compared to last year’s 18.5 lakh metric tonnes through about 1,760 procurement centres. He said that in the financial year 2018-2019, till April 10, 2019, the quantity of paddy procured throughout the state had been 18,56,940 lakh metric tonnes. This year it had gone up to 21 lakh metric tonnes. The minister said that steps were being taken to increase the procurement by another seven lakh metric tonnes and ensure that the total procurement reaches 28 metric tonnes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-has-ample-paddy-stock-says-minister/articleshow/75481232.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Calangute police arrest Nigerian with narcotics||PANAJI: Goa police on Thursday arrested a Nigerian national at Calangute for possession of narcotic substances worth Rs 1.2 lakh. This is the second narcotics case booked by the North Goa police this week. A police team was on a routine patrol near Vidhya Niketan School, Naikawaddo when they intercepted the 31-year-old Nigerian man riding a two-wheeler. During a search of the scooter, he was found in illegal possession of 7.6g of cocaine worth Rs 80,000 and LSD papers worth Rs 40,000, police said. This was also the 10th narcotic drugs case booked at the Calangute police station for the current year till date and the second case booked by Goa police during the current lockdown. The police booked the accused under sections 21(b) and 22(c) of the NDPS act. The accused person will be produced before JMFC Mapusa for remand. PSI Laxi Amonkar is conducting further investigations. “The Goa police is committed towards zero tolerance of drugs and our action against drugs and other illegalities will continue,” said North Goa superintendent of police Utkrisht Prasoon . On Tuesday Calangute police arrested two local youths for illegal possession of a narcotic substance worth Rs 70,000. The two youths, one a resident of Saligao and the other a resident of Calangute, were apprehended by police near Bodkevodd junction at Calangute, on Monday evening. Police said both were on a two-wheeler to deliver narcotics to prospective customers. The accused were remanded into nine days’ judicial custody. The drug seizures graph for the state witnessed a steep rise of around 350% during the first quarter of this year as compared to the corresponding period in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-police-arrest-nigerian-with-narcotics/articleshow/75481822.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP gets new 20-kilolitre oxygen tank||AHMEDABAD: SVP Hospital has now got a new 20-kilolitre medical oxygen tank, which was installed on a war footing in 15 days. The tank has has cost Rs 1 crore and was set up to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that earlier, oxygen cylinders were being used. With SVP now treating about 1,000 Covid cases, the tank became a necessity. The tank has a telemetry system which informs the company in Dahej about the level of oxygen in it. Nehra said as soon as the level touches 40%, the company gets a message and dispatches tankers to refill the tank. This will ensure that all the patients get an uninterrupted supply of oxygen. Officials said that the tank was brought form Hyderabad and other parts came from Pune, Mumbai, Dahej and Vadodara. The installation, which would normally take a month, was completed in 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-gets-new-20-kilolitre-oxygen-tank/articleshow/75481224.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Covid-19 patient drinks sanitizer at CHC, survives||KANPUR:A 30-year-old man, who had tested corona positive and was undergoing treatment at Sarsaul Community Health Centre in the district, tried to end his life by consuming sanitizer on Thursday. He has been admitted to the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital in Kanpur, where his condition is said to be stable. He hails from Jharkhand and was found afflicted with the virus following a test conducted on him by the health department team of Kanpur Dehat. According to CHC sources, the patient was admitted to the CHC on Wednesday. As news of the attempt broke, panic spread in the hospital. The Sarsaul CHC is one of the four hospitals in the district which have been dedicated for treating Covid-19 cases. The patient somehow procured santizer and consumed it on Thursday morning. “As soon as staff on duty, came to know that the man had consumed sanitizer, they alerted senior CHC authorities. He was rushed to Kanshiram Trauma centre in Rama Devi from where he was later referred to Covid 19 ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where he is in a stable condition after emergency medical procedures,” sources told TOI. “The man was admitted at the CHC on Wednesday. He tried to commit suicide by drinking sanitizer. We admitted him to LLR hospital, where doctors have stated his condition to be stable. We’re taking all possible measures to tighten security so that such incidents are not repeated,” CHC in charge Dr SL Verma said. District magistrate Kanpur Dehat Rakesh Singh said, “We are trying to ascertain other contacts of the man, besides details regarding his visit to Kanpur Dehat and where and since when he had been staying in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-patient-drinks-sanitizer-at-chc-survives/articleshow/75481228.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||BMC focus shifts from ‘Swachh Bharat’ to ‘sanitisation’||BHOPAL: In span of two months, Bhopal Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) focus has shifted from Swachh Bharat to comprehensive sanitisation against Covid-19. While the motive to keep the city clean remains the same, there have been a number of innovations and new set of rules that have been adopted to fight against Covid-19. There are hospitals, offices, banks, ATMs, petrol pumps and emergency service locations, which are sanitised by the BMC on a daily basis, sometimes more than once a day. Some water tankers have been converted into mist blowers fitted with protector spray. Sewage cleaning machines have been fitted with 15 sprinklers. At the BMC zone level, 19 vehicles are provided, 14 are pump driven and 60 hand operated, according to BMC estimates. “The work of sanitisation is being done through machines. BMC’s focus is on sanitising areas which have been marked as containment zones,” said BMC additional commissioner, Rajesh Rathod. Each area of 700-odd slums in Bhopal has been marked for special cleaning and sanitisation drives. In order to ensure sanitation, compliance orders were issued for Vajpayee Nagar on Wednesday. Other areas include Kabadhkhana area, Qazi Camp, Chhola Marghat Main Road, Phuta Maqbara area, Shymala Hills, Professors Colony, Kamla Park, Dhobighat area, Murali Nagar, Vishwakarma Nagar, Mulla Colony, Vivekanand Nagar, Eithkhedi mosque area, Karond, Chanakyapuri, Ambedkar Nagar, Sudama Nagar, Nehru Colony, Naya Basera, Nehru Nagar, Anjali Complex, Archana Complex, Shivaji Nagar, Tulsi Nagar, Chakki Charaha, Gujarati Colony, DK Cottage Colony, Green Heights, Khanuja Enclave, Community Hall, Laxman Nagar, Sadhu Vaswani College, CTO road, Ayyappa Temple area, Govindaram School, Moti Masjid, Ibrahimpura, Royal Market, Sindhi Colony, Bhopal Talkies, Bus Stand, DIG Bungalow, Arif Nagar, Misrod police station area and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-focus-shifts-from-swachh-bharat-to-sanitisation/articleshow/75481230.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Two Covid +ve women deliver girls, 1 baby tests -ve||Madurai: Two pregnant women, who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, gave birth to a healthy baby girl each via C-section in the span of three days. The samples of the babies were taken 24 hours after birth to send for testing for Covid-19. The results of one of them has returned negative while the results of the other is still awaited. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman from Samayanallur tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She had given birth to a female infant at Samayanallur PHC only on Wednesday. A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Doddappanaiakkanur in Usilampatti was referred to GRH after initially visiting the Doddappanaiakkanur primary health centre (PHC) for delivery. According to hospital authorities, she tested positive for Covid-19 on April 26 and delivered a healthy female child later the same day through C-section delivery. As per protocol, samples of the baby were sent for Covid-19 testing, which has returned negative. Meanwhile, a 27-year-old pregnant woman from Anuppanadi Road, Teppakulam, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 27. Shortly after being admitted to GRH for treatment, on the second day, this woman, too, gave birth to a healthy baby girl via C-section delivery. Samples of the baby were taken for testing after 24 hours but results are still awaited, said hospital sources. Both deliveries were performed by a team of gynaecologists at the hospital equipped with personal protective equipment (PPEs). Both mothers and their infants are stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-covid-ve-women-deliver-girls-1-baby-tests-ve/articleshow/75481249.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘Avoid pain. It can make some prone to Covid’||Pain physician Dr Sunita Lawange shared how people can overcome lethargy due to inactivity during lockdown and how to cope with post-lockdown period. She also explained relation between pain and Covid-19 and how persistent pain can increase risk of getting infected Q. Why are pain patients more vulnerable to Covid-19? A. Persistent pain increases the level of stress induced hormone Cortisol. This can impair the immune system. If this happens, patient’s ability to fight infections and ability to heal gets compromised. So, pain can make some patients vulnerable to corona infection. Q: Are pain management clinics working during lockdown? A: Most pain management centres are closed as main focus of all healthcare providers has shifted towards Covid-19. All elective, non-emergency cases have been postponed. Only those needing emergency treatment are attended to, following all norms of social distancing. Telemedicine has become very important and we are using it. Q: What changes you have noticed in pain patients after lockdown? When it comes to acute cases of pain, the number has gone down significantly due to reduction in number of accidents. Cases of post-surgical pain are also less because less number of elective surgeries. Workplace and domestic injuries and interpersonal violence too have come down. When it comes to chronic pain prevention, it becomes necessary for many of such patients to get treatment to avoid worsening their pain which may further cause anxiety and depression. We are making arrangements for such patients. Q: How can common people stay pain-free? A: Staying fit, positive and pain-free during lockdown is important. Dedicate at least 45-60 minutes for exercise daily so as to combat the long period of forced inactivity at home. Elderly people having multiple joint problems must do yoga, meditation, strengthening and mobility exercises daily. Reading books, playing indoor games, gardening, listening to music and reviving your hobbies will give more pleasure than watching TV and relentlessly staring at mobile screen. Overall a balanced diet, regular exercise, basic ergonomics and a positive mental attitude are must to come out with hope, happiness and health. Q: Backpain is very common among those working from home. What can they do? A: Those working from home in front of screen are prone for back and neck pain. To avoid this, maintain adequate distance from the screen, make your work place ergonomically friendly, the height of computer must be just below your eye line, your foot must rest completely on floor, avoid glare into eyes by proper orientation of screen, use a proper sized table top and interrupt long periods of sittings with some short walks and stretches. Q: Lockdown may be relaxed soon. How to come out of its lethargy? A: Lockdown or no lockdown – the situation is not going to be like before. We still have to maintain social distancing. So, be calm, patient. Continue daily exercises and routine. Wear masks, maintain hygiene, and stay positive. Visit doctors only after taking appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/avoid-pain-it-can-make-some-prone-to-covid/articleshow/75481852.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 1, 2020||Agra||Railway staffer’s death: 7 sent to quarantine test negative for Covid-19||AGRA: Day after a 59-year-old fourth grade railway employee allegedly committed suicide inside quarantine facility of a private hospital after waiting for his Covid-19 report for eight days, the district administration in collaboration with railway, shifted the remaining seven staff to railway quarantine facility. Interestingly, just a few hours after the reported suicide of railway employee, district administration pushed the test samples of all eight employees on priority and claimed that all eight were found negative. On Thursday, divisional railway manager of Prayagraj Amitabh Kumar said, “Since the quarantine centre and isolation facility are prerogative of state authorities, we had made special request to district administration to shift the seven railway employees to our quarantine facility, as they were disturbed after the death of their colleague - to which the district administration agreed.” Also, he added that no medical reason was found behind the railway employee’s suicide, but "still we are not sure what triggered him to take the extreme step. The civil police is investigating. His body has been handed over to the family".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/railway-staffers-death-7-sent-to-quarantine-test-negative/articleshow/75479372.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Truck hits two-wheeler at Bicholim, Sakhali man injured||Bicholim: A Sakhali resident sustained grievous injuries in a road accident near Bicholim Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk on Thursday morning. Police said that the incident occured when a mud-laden truck collided with Prakash Jalmi, a resident of Virdi, who was riding his two-wheeler near the traffic circle. Jalmi, 47, was first rushed to Bicholim primary health centre and later had to be shifted to Goa Medical College and hospital with severe leg injuries. Bicholim police are conducting further investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truck-hits-two-wheeler-at-bicholim-sakhali-man-injured/articleshow/75481840.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Indore||Except Indore & Ujjain, cases dip in Malwa-Nimar districts||Indore: In last week of lockdown 2.0, a rise in number of positive patients has been reported in Indore and Ujjain district daily while other districts of Malwa-Nimar region are trying at their level to control the menace as very few cases are being reported there in last few days. Most patients, who are being treated in remaining 13 districts of Indore-Ujjain division, are recovering leading to increase in confidence of local administration. Ujjain division joint director’s office (health), which released its bulletin of the day, reported 14 new cases in Ujjain district increasing the tally to 141. Of this, deaths of 24 victims have been reported while 43 patients have managed to recover. Total 74 patients are currently admitted to hospitals. No new positive case or death was reported in remaining six districts of the division. “We are trying hard to control spread of the disease and the efforts seem to yield good results,” said Ujjain divisional commissioner Anand Sharma adding that most patients admitted in different districts are recovering and helping them enter ‘green category’. “Ratlam has so far reported 14 positive cases of which, 11 have been discharged. Eight out of total 17 patients have been discharged in Dewas while four patients have been discharged in Shajapur and two patients are undergoing treatment,” he said. The commissioner said that Neemuch is already in green zone for not reporting any case while seven patients admitted in Mandsaur and 11 in Shajapur are in stable condition and efforts are being made to help them defeat the disease. “We are hopeful that normalcy would return in phase-wise manner in all districts of the division post May 3,” said commissioner adding that many steps have also been taken to control Covid-19 menace in Ujjain district. Figures of positive patients and deaths are on rise in Indore district while remaining districts of the division are managing to minimize impact of the disease. “In last 24 hours, Indore district reported three deaths and 19 new cases that took the tally to 68 and 1485, respectively,” joint director (health) Dr JS Awasya told TOI. One new case has reported in Khargone (total 71 positive, 7 death) and two new cases have reported in Barwani district (total 26 cases). Besides, Jhabua, Alirajpur, Dhar and Khandwa district reported no new case. Meanwhile, division office has once again added a patient of Maharashtra, who was reported positive in Burhanpur and undergoing treatment there, in its tally. Including this, total two positive cases have so far reported here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/except-indore-ujjain-cases-dip-in-malwa-nimar-districts/articleshow/75480344.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Swipe card, pay house tax at doorstep in Valpoi||Valpoi: Residents of Valpoi can now pay their house tax at their doorstep as the Valpoi Municipal Council (VMC) on Thursday launched the smart integrated Point of Sale (POS) solution for online tax payment. The POS machines with geo-tagging facility will help VMC collect house tax and rent from citizens on the spot. The service was launched in association with the directorate of municipal administration and Axis Bank. Chairperson of Valpoi Municipal Council Akhtar Ali Shah told TOI, “ If any citizen visits our municipality for any work like getting birth certificate, income certificate and other documents then the person has to show the paid receipt of the house tax and only then will his work be done. In this way, VMC will be successful in recovering arrears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swipe-card-pay-house-tax-at-doorstep-in-valpoi/articleshow/75481831.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Indore||Indore: Weekly offs come as lifeline for the men in khaki||INDORE: In order to beat the stress of law enforcement during the pandemic, Indore officials have started receiving monthly offs. While some officials made sure that they completed their deprived sleep, some others focused on Yoga and eating healthy home cooked food. For MG Road police station in charge Rajendra Chaturvedi, his weekly off came as a sigh of relief as he was able to get the long pending haircut. Unavailability of a barber did not dampen his spirits. “I asked my wife to cut my hair. We spent the day together and she cooked my favourite dishes. The day started with Yoga followed by puja and then I watched some documentaries and movies,” he said adding that the break was really helpful as it helped him relax while not thinking about work for one day. Rau inspector Dinesh Verma, a black belt in Karate, tested his stamina by practising 250 flying kicks using both the legs in one go on his off day last week. “Since I am not going home and am at the hospital, I spent the day increasing my stamina and also completed my sleep. I spoke to my family members and also made video calls to them,” he said. IG Vivek Sharma had recently passed an order a week ago allowing one ASP level officer, two DSPs, two CSPs, two inspectors from east and west and four officials from each police station rest once in a week. The IG had also said that the officials who have an off according to the roster can switch off their phones and will not be disturbed until there is an emergency situation. This, however, was made a monthly routine in an order on Wednesday. Like Verma, MIG police station in charge Indresh Tripathi said that he felt really rejuvenated after the off last week. While the officials were very excited about this weekly routine, their happiness was short-lived after the order making this a monthly exercise was passed on Wednesday. DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra, however, claimed that the offs have not been changed. “It’s just that two inspectors from East and West get an off every day so according to the roster, an inspector can expect an off in 20 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/weekly-offs-come-as-lifeline-for-the-men-in-khaki/articleshow/75480363.cms||Karishma Kotwal
May 1, 2020||Pune||Foods boosting immune system key in battle against Covid-19||PUNE: The human body has an excellent immune system that gets into action every time there is a viral or bacterial attack. Supporting this immune system with nutrient foods is crucial in our current fight against Covid-19, say nutritionists. “Viruses will survive only if they enter our cells. Our body has an excellent surveillance and defence mechanism through the immune system involving white blood cells. If we want these WBCs to be potent and effective, it is important to consume raw food before meals. This food can be carrots, cucumbers, onions or even raw tomatoes,” says city nutritionist Vibhusha Jambhekar. “It is essential to focus on nutrients in the food rather than the calories. Consuming food with good nutrients will boost the immune system,” she says. A good immune system helps the body detect viruses and attack them. “People should focus on home-based and organic food as far as possible. In addition, make sure to consume foods of different colours. Having whole grain food and fibres keeps the gut clean and prevents bacterial infections,” says Amreen Shaikh, head dietician and nutritionist at Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai. The inclusion of turmeric, which is a part of Indian cooking, is good for immunity as it had anti-inflammatory properties, says Shaikh. Jambhekar says certain molecules are synthesized in the body whenever there is a virus. “These molecules are called interferons which are like red alerts. They alert the whole body that there is an infection. Interferons are stimulated by the peel of the lemon. Just grate a lemon peel and add it to your food,” she says. Along with consuming proper nutrient food, it is important to maintain hygiene in the kitchen. Nutritionists say that while people are rigorously following hand hygiene, they should also keep kitchen spaces clean. “Kitchen hygiene involves regular cleaning of the platform and drawer handles, which are touched frequently. The sinks should be cleared of pooled water,” says Jinal Patel, consultant dietician at Apollo Spectra hospital in Mumbai. Patel also suggests that food be covered while being cooked so that nutrients are not lost. Even the extra water from cooked food, which contains nutrients, can be reused for cooking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foods-boosting-immune-system-key-in-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/75482192.cms||Swatee Kher
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu examination 2020: Teachers worry over lack of revision time||MADURAI: While teachers all over the state are anxious about Class X state board exams, government school teachers in particular are worried about how their students would fare in this year’s exams. Though the school education department has said that the exams will take place for sure, the time table is yet to be decided. Government school teachers feel that the absence of a school environment for studying is detrimental for their students. “We are definitely worried about this year’s results. The government school students, many of whom come from financially poor families, are finding it difficult to focus on the preparations amid the lockdown. Students easily lose touch even if we push them to study at home. They put in their best efforts when they are in school,” said a government high school head master. Many teachers feel that 10-20 days of special classes is necessary for providing last-minute training to the students before exams commence. Teachers are also worried that Class X students will be writing their board exams based on a new syllabus and without a blueprint. “It is always tough for the batch which writes exams under the new syllabus. With no blue print as well, we were already looking at a difficult time this year. Now, with no means to give proper revision amid lockdown, we can only pray to God for good results,” said a Class X science teacher at a government high school. However, the schools and teachers are still trying their best to be in touch with their students over phone and help them study from their homes using online resources. “We try to be in touch with our students for clearing any doubts and are constantly encouraging them to study from home. We are also confident in the training we have imparted to our students prior to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-worry-over-lack-of-revision-time/articleshow/75486326.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa University directives for revised academic calendar on May 4||PANAJI: Goa University vice-chancellor Varun Sahni and registrar YV Reddy on Thursday held a discussion with all college principals in Goa via video conferencing. The meeting was held after the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued guidelines over the altered academic calendar that can be followed by universities and colleges in the country, in view of the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19 across the country. Goa University officials are set to issue detailed guidelines for the state’s colleges on Monday, based on the April 30 discussion. Over 40 college principals, including those of 33 general stream government and aided institutes, and heads of professional colleges, took part in the online discussion. Sources said it was discussed how best the UGC recommendations could be adapted to the requirements in Goa. Earlier, Goa University had said that the new academic year will begin from July 1. But this may see a review now following the UGC guidelines. The GU directives will be issued on May 4, based on Thursday’s discussions and also the government decision over extension of the lockdown and the restrictions or relaxations for Goa. The UGC had said that its guidelines are recommendatory in nature and that each university may chart out its own plan of action taking into account the issues pertaining to the novel coronavirus situation in a particular state. The UGC has said that the academic year for existing college students can begin from August 1, 2020, and for the new batch of first year students from September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-directives-for-revised-academic-calendar-on-may-4/articleshow/75481854.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Isolation helps Ray put thoughts into words||Bhubaneswar: Home confinement owing to the lockdown has not made much of a difference to Prativa Ray, a Jnanpith awardee, as it helps her put her thoughts together for writing. She imposed a self-styled confinement on herself from March 9 owing to the novel coronavirus outbreak after she returned from the All India Women’s Writers’ Conference in Agartala organised on International Women’s Day. “Even back then I had used a mask and was the only one to do so in the entire flight,” says Ray. She also cancelled her visit to Kochi for the diamond jubilee function of Kerala Writers’ Co-operative Society on February 14 after cases surfaced in the southern state. It was followed by the cancellation of her March 12 visit to Guwahati, where she was the state guest for a book fair. The pandemic also prevented her from going to Paris on March 24 as part of the Indian delegation to the World Paris Book fair that was called off. The change in schedule has not disturbed Ray as she herself puts it, “Since I have long retired from work, I largely stay home and go around shopping in the city for traditional saris at times.” She is using the time to integrate facts about the pandemic with philosophy to express her understanding of the situation through a column in an Odia newspaper. She is also working on her new novel, the subject of which she would rather not reveal until its publication. “My literature has always been lockdown literature. I write in solitude when everyone has retired for the day,” says Ray. The writer, who is an indulgent grandmother, is savouring every moment of making gulab jamun and rasagullas for her teenage granddaughter, who is preparing for competitive exams. “I make sure she takes her orange juice every day,” says the health-conscious Ray, who herself spends at least an hour walking and 30 minutes gardening at home every morning. She does odd jobs in her house and loves to click pictures of lilies growing in a pond in her garden. While enjoying the simple pleasures of life, Ray ensures that she and her family take all precautions against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/isolation-helps-ray-put-thoughts-into-words/articleshow/75470732.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopali celebs remember bond with Rishi Kapoor||BHOPAL: As the news of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor’s demise sent shock waves across the country on Thursday, actor Arun Verma, and script writer Rumy Jafry, from Bhopal, shared their memories of the noted actor. They revealed that despite being extremely popular and successful, he remained loving towards even those, who he had worked with long ago.  Having written the scripts of Rishi’s movies like ‘Ye Hai Jalwa’ and ‘Prem Yog’, co-scripted with Honey Irani, Jafry had a brief conversation with TOI as he arranged to get a pass from Mumbai district administration to reach the Kapoors as soon as possible. “Neetu and Rishi were the first to come to greet me when my wife and I were blessed with a daughter”, he recalled with a voice choked with emotion. After taking a moment to calm down, he said, “He was my family, my elder brother. All the members of his family extended their arms to me. Our bond is much deeper than that of a scriptwriter and actor. He was always loving, friendly and there for his friends, whenever they needed him,” said Jafry. Actor Arun Verma moved to Mumbai from Bhopal in mid 1980s after having performed many plays with B V Karant at Bharat Bhavan in Bhopal. He also shared screen space with the chocolatey-hero of the 1970s and 80s, in ‘Henna’ and ‘Prem Granth’. Recalling how Rishi was a fun-loving man and kept everyone around him happy, Verma said, “He was very dedicated to his work and was a die-hard foodie. He and his family attended to the cast and crew with great love and made them feel like their family.” He went on to add, “Rishi had the spirit and curiosity of a child. Even in his last few years, he was always learning new things, operating new gadgets, learning the changing trends on the Internet and anything that came his way. We met a few days before the RK Studios was sold off and also clicked a photo together. A few days later, I got the news that he had been detected with leukaemia and had left abroad for treatment. That was the last time I met him, but I was constantly in touch with him on phone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopali-celebs-remember-bond-with-rishi-kapoor/articleshow/75481251.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Mysterious deaths of stray dogs in Mohali||MOHALI: Mystery shrouds deaths of stray dogs in Mohali. In the past four days, the municipal corporation workers have picked up seven dead dogs from Sector 69.  Though two of the seven died due to road accidents, five others were found dead in parks, said an MC employee. A resident of Sector 69 said, “From the past four days, I have been finding a dog dead in my locality every morning. The sanitation workers, who come to pick up the dead dogs, said they have picked three to four more dog carcasses from other parts of the area. On Thursday, too, I found a dog dead under mysterious circumstances in the area park. I have lodged a complaint with police, seeking an FIR against unknown persons for the death of dogs.”  When she asked a veterinary doctor to conduct the postmortem of a dead dog, he said he could not proceed till an FIR was lodged and he was directed by the police or the municipal corporation to carry out the autopsy, she added. When the matter was taken up with MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg, he deputed the health and sanitation in-charge to conduct a thorough check of the spot and get the postmortem of the dead dog conducted to established the cause of death.  “We will establish the cause of stray dogs’ death before jumping to any conclusion. It will be ensured that their bodies are disposed of properly,” Garg added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mysterious-deaths-of-stray-dogs-in-mohali/articleshow/75480379.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Biggest single-day spike in Mohali with 13 cases||MOHALI: Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Mohali. Thursday saw the highest single-day spike, with 13 more testing positive. This has taken the tally of positive cases to 86 in the district. Earlier, 10 positive cases had surfaced from Jawaharpur village in a single day. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said of the 13, 10 had returned to Mohali from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, one is from Mullanpur and two from Jawaharpur. Of pilgrims who have tested positive, four are from Premgarh village in Aerocity, two from Manak Majra village, one each from villages Amrala, Badana, Raipur Khurd and Saini Majra. Out of the 10, six are women (aged 38, 17, 48, 58, 51 and 29) and four are men (aged 37, 43, 61 and 58). The Mullanpur resident, 35, is a PGIMER employee and admitted to the institute. The two new cases from Jawaharpur are of two brothers, aged 20 and 22. They both are nephews of the sarpanch who had earlier tested positive. On Wednesday, five pilgrims (three women and two men) had tested positive. With this, 15 Sikh pilgrims from Nanded who have tested positive are from Mohali. On Thursday, 15 more pilgrims arrived at Mohali from Hazur Sahib. They have been quarantined and their samples taken. The deputy commissioner said those undergoing home quarantine must be isolated in a separate room and use masks and sanitisers, besides wash their hands with soap and water and keep their noses and faces covered while coughing and sneezing. Jawaharpur village has most number of cases, that is, 43, of which, 25 were active while the cases involving PGI employees or primary contacts in Nayagaon were eight, he added. Of the district 84 cases so far, 30 have been cured and 52 are active. A total of 1,411 samples were taken, of which 1,260 were negative and results of eight samples are awaited. Extensive sampling is being conducted in the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/biggest-single-day-spike-in-mohali-with-13-cases/articleshow/75480356.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Principal killed in Covid battle||Ahmedabad: Covid-19 claimed the life of a government school employee on Thursday at Asarwa Civil Hospital. A press release by Municipal School Board member Illyas Qureshi says, “Mohammad Yasin Shaikh was the principal of Shahpur Urdu School Number 5. He had been surveying homes in hotspot areas in connection with the mid-day meal benefit scheme.” Another school principal, Irfan Sheikh, 32, principal of Naroda-Kubernagar Municipal School has been on a ventilator since April 23. Two other municipal school teachers, Geeta Bosiya and Rashida Bisalpurwala of Shahpur School, have also tested positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/principal-killed-in-covid-battle/articleshow/75481272.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Develop quarantine facilities for Rajasthan labourers returning to state: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed district collectors to make arrangements for the safe return of migrant workers from Rajasthan. He said out of the 10 lakh registered migrant workers, at least 70% will return to the state. He directed officials to make arrangements for their quarantine in each district. The chief minister said the state government was in touch with the Centre for arranging rail facility for their travel. The chief minister said health facilities had to be strengthened at district level to meet the challenges like corona pandemic in future. He said it was the state government’s endeavour to develop facilities for testing and treatment at the district level. He asked officials to devise short-term and long-term plans to meet the threat posed by Covid-19. He said nobody knows how long the fight against the virus would last. The chief minister said the long lockdown had taken a toll on the economy. He said it was necessary to restart economic activities along with lockdown. Gehlot said the administration has to take effective measures to stop the spread of the disease while at the same time economic activities need to be resumed. The chief minister directed officials to devise simple procedure to issue passes. He said people were already suffering due to the lockdown and they should not be hassled in getting passes for urgent work. Health minister Raghu Sharma informed that coronavirus testing per day in the state had crossed 9,100. He said testing will touch 10,000 once ICMR gives nod for testing at Barmer, Pali and Sikar. He said apart from all government medical colleges, testing is being carried out at Jhalawar, Bhilwara, Bharatpur, Dungarpur, Churu, Mahatma Gandhi Medical college in Jaipur, AIIMS Jodhpur and Marushaliya Ayurveda Research Centre, Jodhpur. Chief secretary D B Gupta said the response of the Centre had been quite positive to the suggestions of the state for running destination train for migrant labourers. He directed that all migrant labourers had to be screened and those who had any symptoms of cold and cough had to be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/develop-quarantine-facilities-for-raj-labourers-returning-to-state-gehlot/articleshow/75481275.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal's Hamidia hospital starts admitting Covid-19 patients||BHOPAL: State capital’s largest tertiary care institution, Hamidia hospital, has now started admitting Covid-19 patients, indicating that another phase of corona infections in the state capital and surrounding districts has started. Holding the fort are doctors in the department of medicine, anaesthesia, paediatrics and pulmonary medicine. Over 48 consultants and doctors are manning the fight against the pandemic. The hospital has been divided into three broad zones - non-Covid area, Covid area - looking after patients with mild to moderate illness, and critical area, including the ICU. In addition, a triage area has been developed in the emergency zone, where patients with acute severe respiratory illness are admitted, said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) dean and Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. The facility that started on Wednesday has been set up keeping the guidelines issued by ministry of health and family welfare in mind, regarding general principles of category of department, based on clinical exposure and participation in the management of critically-ill patients. Currently, four Covid-19 patients are being treated at the hospital. Most of the corona patients are in a private medical college while most of the critical patients are being handled by AIIMS Bhopal. A hospital infection control committee (HICC) has been set up for reporting development of symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 along with surveillance for fever/cough/breathing difficulty through either self-reporting or active and passive screening at the beginning of the shift. The committee will also monitor patients (admitted for non-Covid illness) for development of unexplained fever/cough/breathing difficulty during their stay, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hamidia-hospital-has-started-admitting-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75481266.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Students await science scholarship test results||Panaji: The Goa science talent search examination is held each year in the state by the state council for educational research and training (SCERT) in January. This year, however, even three months after the exam was held, the results are yet to be announced, which has upset some parents whose children took the test. Other than the results for the January 2020 test not being declared, the students chosen for the scholarship in January 2019 have not yet received the scholarship amount. Official sources said that the scholarships for January 2019 were on hold as the state had been going through a financial crunch. “The test is held in collaboration with the department of science, technology and environment (DSTE), Saligao, through which the scholarship amount is provided. As the state government was going through financial difficulties, the scholarship could not be disbursed,” said a source. The science talent search is held for children from Classes VIII to XII and around 50 high school and 25 higher secondary school students are selected for scholarships. The scholarship amount provided is a nominal sum of around Rs 2,500. “The results for the January 2020 test were delayed after an official took ill. Now another official is being handed the responsibility and the results will be declared shortly,” said a source. Forty scholarships are given in the general category in Classes VIII, IX and X each and 10 in the SC/ST category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-await-science-scholarship-test-results/articleshow/75481861.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government takes stock of Tamils stuck abroad||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government on Thursday launched a website -- www.nonresidenttamil.org -- to help Tamil Nadu people stuck in various countries return home. As the state government does not have a department handling the affairs of overseas Tamils, this is the first step towards taking a headcount of people form the state working across the globe. The government has asked all NRIs from Tamil Nadu to register their passport and visa details on the website. In contrast, neighbouring Kerala has a separate department, Norka, to handle the affairs of non-resident Keralites. Many Tamils are suffering in the labour camps in the Middle East. Social distancing norms, a vital aspect to prevent spreading Covid-19, is not possible in their camps, where 8-10 workers are accommodated in a small room. They sleep on double-decker cots. Some of them are suffering without proper food, said officials. Based on their distress calls, their relatives in Tamil Nadu have been seeking help from the state government to bring them back. The website would help the government take a headcount of Tamils outside the country, said a government statement. Several thousand Tamils live in countries like Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the US, European countries and the Middle East. Many Tamil fishermen are working in Iran. In the Middle East, a sizeable section of Tamils are hospital staff, construction workers and employees of department stores. “We have requested the external affairs ministry to reach out to our people through Indian embassies in various countries and inform them about the website,” said a senior official in the public department. He said the state has created adequate infrastructure to quarantine people who are returning from abroad. Many hotels have been booked for this purpose. Those who test positive for Covid-19 would be given the option of getting admitted to government or private hospitals. Based on their financial condition, the government would decide on the financial assistance to be extended to them, he said. Defence forces have already been put on alert by the government of India to deploy aircraft and naval ships to evacuate Indians in large numbers from foreign countries as and when a decision is taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-starts-headcount-of-tamils-stuck-abroad/articleshow/75481267.cms||B Sivakumar
May 1, 2020||Vadodara||Cops attacked in Godhra for sealing containment areas||VADODARA: Situation turned tense during drive to seal containment areas in Godhra on Thursday evening after some locals resorted to stone pelting at the policemen. Police lobbed teargas shells to bring the situation under control. Sources said that the process of sealing entry and exits of containment zones with tin sheets was started considering the spike in Covid cases. Residents of the Gohya Mohalla in the town objected to this drive and even pelted stones Sources said that despite increasing the police force in the locality, the mobs were not relenting. Panchmahal district superintendent of police Leena Patil said that around five teargas shells were lobbed and two persons who were a part of the mob were also nabbed. Godhra has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. So far, 38 have tested positive in the town. In wake of the situation, it was also decided that the lockdown would be made stricter in the town despite latest guidelines allowing the town to relax it. It was decided on Tuesday that the election wards number three, six and nine of Godhra town would be declared as containment zones. All movement except that for medical emergencies has been banned in the area. Watch Covid-19 lockdown: Locals attack cops in Godhra, pelt stones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-attacked-in-godhra/articleshow/75478318.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: If you don’t wear a mask, you may not get petrol or ration||PANAJI: The state executive committee (SEC) has suggested that people not wearing masks in public places should not be given any service at fuel stations and ration shops. The SEC has said that such a move will ensure the use of masks among the public. The state government has already made wearing of masks mandatory and even imposed a fine of Rs 100 for failing to do so, but the compliance is low. An official said, it was decided at SEC’s Wednesday meeting that the state should start a campaign on the lines of ‘No mask – no petrol’ or ‘No mask -no ration’. The state executive committee, which is the nodal body for Covid management and relief works in the state, has directed secretary civil supplies and department of information and publicity to work out an action plan in this regard, he said. Some private establishments, including grocery stores and supermarkets, insist that customers not only maintain social distance, but also wear masks, or they won’t be given service. Police have fined over 1,000 people for not wearing masks since the penalty provision was introduced few days ago. Besides police, panchayat secretaries and talathis have also been given powers to penalise people if found without masks in public places. It is observed that while people in urban areas have adopted the new way of life, people in villages are yet to come to terms with it. An official said people in villages hardly wear masks however, they will follow the new rule once panchayat secretaries start penalising them. The government has been made clear that people are not required to wear 3-layered masks or surgical masks. It would suffice if they cover face and nose with a scarf. Various kinds of handmade masks have come into vogue. The department of women and child development has engaged self -help groups (SHGs) to make face masks for government staff. It has already bought 19,600 masks from SHGs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-you-dont-wear-a-mask-you-may-not-get-petrol-or-ration/articleshow/75481891.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nine tablighis sent to Chandrapur jails from Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Gadchiroli police on Wednesday arrested seven Kazakhstan and two Kyrgyzstan Tablighi Jamatis against whom they had already registered an offence earlier for violating the visa norms. These nine were later sent to Chandrapur prisons after court had sent them to the magisterial custody till May 15 this month.The Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan nationals had come to Gadchiroli after visiting Delhi on March 8 this year. They were booked and quarantined by the Gadchiroli police after their involvement in the religious activities had come to fore despite the fact that they were on tourist visa. On Wednesday, the Gadchiroli police had taken them in custody after their quarantine period was over. They were produced before the magistrate in Gadchiroli. With police reserving their right to take the foreign tablighis into remand in future as per the requirements, the court took them into magisterial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nine-tablighis-sent-to-chandrapur-jails-from-gadchiroli/articleshow/75480414.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||NU waives exam forms late fee due to Covid-19||Nagpur: In a major decision that will benefit lakhs of students, Nagpur University has decided to waive late fee for students filling up examination forms after the deadline. The decisions have been taken in view of Covid-19 outbreak in the country that has led to the indefinite deferment of majority of NU’s summer examinations. NU usually charges Rs50 late fee, if the students fill up exam forms within 15 days after the deadline. The amount is Rs1,500 in next 15 days, and Rs5,000 for subsequent 15 days. This has been a major source of revenue for the university for many years.The decision was taken during a meeting of NU’s Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) on Wednesday, which was the first online meeting held in its history. The same meeting also decided to extend last date for PhD thesis submissions if nationwide lockdown is extended beyond July 31.“The decision has been taken in the larger interest of the students. Since they’re not at fault, there’s no point in levying this hefty penalty on them. Coronavirus outbreak has led to an unprecedented crisis across all sectors, including education,” BOEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI.After the first phase, NU couldn’t conduct its second, third and fourth phase of examinations where nearly four lakh students are supposed to appear. “Those from third and fourth phases, which are major ones in terms of student numbers, were yet to fill the forms when nationwide lockdown was imposed. Now, they can fill up the forms as and when examinations schedule would be declared,” Sable said.The BOEE director informed that UGC had suggested starting the new academic year (2020-21) from August 1 for second, third and fourth year students. LATE FEE WAIVED OFF* Within 15 days — Rs50* Between 15 to 30 days – Rs1,500* Between 30 to 45 days — Rs5,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-waives-exam-forms-late-fee-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75480395.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 1, 2020||Pune||Survey punches hole in Maharashtra’s study-from-home plan||PUNE: A survey by a collective of zilla parishad (ZP) teachers across the state has revealed that the government’s plan of taking virtual classrooms to school students during the lockdown is way short of its target. Titled ‘Digital Access’, the study was conducted by the Active Teachers Forum (ATF) and it revealed that only 27% parents of the students surveyed had smartphones with internet connectivity — a gadget must for virtual learning. A teacher from each of the 1,186 privately-run, aided and unaided ZP schools across the state conducted the survey for 1.67 lakh students. The survey revealed that only 3,469 students had laptops or desktops at home. Bhau Chaskar, a teacher from Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district and one of the lead surveyors, said the government had attempted to introduce the “study from home” concept at various levels but the survey has revealed the ground reality. “The survey revealed that majority (63%) of the students had television sets at home. The government can think of using the TV sets as a tool for study through the satellite system, instead of wasting energy on something — smartphones with internet connectivity — not available with the majority,” he said. The survey revealed that the government had started sending activities to children through WhatsApp and other social media platforms that required internet connectivity. “But a sizeable number of students were missing out on these lessons because of lack of Net access. The government had not taken this into consideration,” Chaskar said. Chaskar said the ATF conducted the survey to influence the government’s policy decisions on the teaching plans in case the situation in Maharashtra did not immediately improve. Study punches hole in ‘study from home’Bhau Chaskar said, “Schools will be largely hit if they do not reopen by June. The government must consider the ground situation before taking any decision.” When contacted, commissioner of education Vishal Solanki said, “We are trying to reach out to all children through all media, including television and radio. We will not depend on any particular platform for teaching.” Education activist and Aam Aadmi Party city chief Mukund Kirdat said, “The government is trying to introduce cellphone-based education system without taking into account the ground reality. This survey is a reflection of the ground reality. Instead of doing all this, the government can reintroduce ‘Balchitravani’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/survey-punches-hole-in-states-study-from-home-plan/articleshow/75482193.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Businessman loses Rs 25,000, gets it back due to coronavirus scare||MADHEPURA: If a Rs 100 note falls out of your pocket while walking on the streets, chances are you will never see it again. And, if it’s Rs 25,000, you can just forget about it. But the scare around coronavirus is such that even a thick wad of notes lying on a road found no takers for fear of contracting the disease. Ask Gajendra Sah, a businessman from Saharsa district, for whom the virus scare came as a boon. “I had stopped my bike near a village under Uda-Kishunganj police station in Madhepura district and took out something from my pocket when the Rs 25,000 bundle fell on the road,” said Gajendra, a resident of Kopa village near Sonbersa Raj, adding, “I found it back because no one dared to touch it fearing the virus and police was called to take the money for safe keeping.” He added, “I had kept the Rs25,000 in the pocket of my trouser and had gone to buy some metal sheets from the neighbouring Mahua Bazar on my bike. Though the Bazar falls in Saharsa, people have to take a Madhepura road to reach the market.” Gajendra learnt about the missing money when he was about to pay the metal sheet supplier at the market. “I suddenly recalled where I may have dropped the money and rushed to the spot where I asked people who told me that police collected the money as no one wanted to touch it.” Police said people gathered around the cash but none dared to pick it up fearing Covid-19 infection. They informed the local police and a team from Uda-Kishunganj police station rushed to the spot and collected the scattered cash from the road. Gajendra later arrived at the police station and narrated the incident before station house officer (SHO) Shashi Bhushan Singh. Following proper verification, the SHO handed over the cash to Gajendra, who thanked the police profusely. “Locals informed that someone has dropped money on the road probably with the intention of spreading of Covid-19 virus. We went to the spot and lifted the money carefully. Later, Gajendra came to the police station and claimed it and we gave it back after verification,” Uda-Kishunganj SHO Shashi Bhushan Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saharsa-bizman-loses-rs-25k-gets-it-back-due-to-corona-scare/articleshow/75478610.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Government engineering college turns exclusive quarantine ward for truck drivers||DHARMAPURI: The district administration has set up an exclusive quarantine ward for truck drivers in order to screen the ones who have returned from other states. The ward is set up at Government College of Engineering campus at Chettikarai. Dharmapuri’s lone positive Covid-19 case was a truck driver, who contracted the virus after travelling to Karnataka and southern districts in Tamil Nadu as part of his work. After he tested positive, district collector S Malarvizhi had directed health department officials to set up the quarantine ward for truck drivers. “We have identified truck drivers who have reached Dharmapuri after travelling back from other districts and states as part of their work,” she said. All the drivers have been kept at the quarantine centre for 14 days. The quarantine ward was set up 10 days ago. At least 1,803 truck drivers have been tested for Covid-19 at the centre. “We conduct tests for the drivers and send them out if the results are negative,” the collector said. After a quarantine of 14 days, drivers are tested again for Covid-19 and are discharged if they are found negative. After testing all the truck drivers in the district, the administration has now begun testing people entering the district from other states for Covid 19. Positive cases are being sent for quarantine at the centre, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/govt-engg-college-turns-exclusive-quarantine-ward-for-truck-drivers/articleshow/75480413.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Endangered blackbuck killed in Rohtas, constable detained||PATNA: A young blackbuck, a species of endangered antelope, was killed by poachers at a village in Rohtas district late on Wednesday. A police constable has been detained for questioning. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when a video showing some people chopping off the horns of the blackbuck went viral on social media. A forest department team led by ranger Satyendra Kumar reached the spot and sent the blackbuck carcass to the Rajpur veterinary hospital for an autopsy. “The post mortem report is awaited. What I can say at this stage is that a blackbuck has been killed and a suspect is being questioned. Prima facie it appeared that the valuable horns of the blackbuck was chopped off with a sharp edged weapon after being killed,” said Rohtas divisional forest officer Pradumna Gautam. Though the villagers told the members of the visiting team that the blackbuck was shot from close range, no bullet marks were found on the body, he added. While a police constable, Niraj Kumar Dubey, was apprehended by some locals and handed over to the police, two others managed to escape. “The interrogation of the constable will throw more light on the incident,” Gautam said. The DFO said the post-mortem examination has been videographed as per guidelines set by the department. He admitted that the blackbuck fell victim to poachers as these animals are often spotted moving about in the agricultural fields. Buxar, Rohtas, Kaimur and Bhojpur have a large number of blackbucks and reports of this endangered species being killed surfaces from time to time. “But we have been able to check the disconcerting trend with the active support of local residents,” the DFO said. Sasaram SDPO Laxman Prasad, however, said, “The police driver was among the people who had gathered on the spot after the news about the killing of the blackbuck spread in the area.” But he refused to comment on why the cop failed to inform senior police officers or how he reached the spot, which is nearly two kilometres from the police station. Police sources said the accused may have to face imprisonment up to seven years if found guilty under the Wild Life Act. Since the blackbuck falls under endangered category, the culprit is awarded the same punishment as for killing a tiger or a leopard. Forest department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper that the detained police driver was being quizzed to gather more information about the crime. “Blackbucks are found in large number in Kaimur, Rohtas and Buxar, and they usually roam around in the open. Locals have also been very supportive and they inform the forests department in case of any suspicious activity. We are getting into the details of how this incident happened,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/endangered-blackbuck-killed-in-rohtas-constable-detained/articleshow/75478678.cms||Ramashankar
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula industries open, but not in operation||PANCHKULA: Industrialists in Panchkula are facing multiple problems in running their units, as the entire cycle of cash flow and product delivery in the market is not the way it used to be until the lockdown, they say. According to industry owners, since there is no market to sell their products, it is no use adding to the existing inventory lying unsold. Besides, a large number of unskilled labourers have already left for their homes, and the remaining may follow the suit after May 3. Members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Haryana said the government allowing opening of industries is a welcome move, but there is no market for their products, as people are saving money to spend on essential commodities. Non-essential items are lying unsold in godowns and with wholesalers and retailers. “Another major problem is the small number of unskilled workers. Most of the skilled workers, without whom the product cannot be taken to the finishing level, have returned to their hometowns. This has affected the entire process of production,” said an industrialist. Also, raw material, which used to come from other cities/ countries, is also in short supply due to restrictions on movements, affecting the overall production process. Vishnu Goyal, president of Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, “Huge money of industrialists is stuck due to unsold products in the market. Without getting any returns from the existing inventory, no one wants to invest more. “The entire cycle of raw material, production, market, cash-flow has come to a halt due to the lockdown and it will revive only when things are back to normal.” Only the units producing pharmaceuticals and essential food items are in operation, but those account for only 10% of the total market. Rest all other are into production of non-essential items, said industry owners. Industrial establishments in Haryana have been allowed to run their operations with 50% of their workforce while adhering to social distancing norms and taking all other safety precautions. BOX: What ails industry -Shortage of skilled/unskilled workers -No demand for non-essential items -Old inventory lying unsold -No cash flow in market -Shortage of raw material||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-industries-open-but-not-in-operation/articleshow/75480416.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
May 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt seeks special trains to bring migrants home||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar is facing the herculean task of bringing back thousands of migrant workers and students from other states following the Centre’s notification allowing inter-state movement of stranded people. Acknowledging the logistical nightmare, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday made an appeal to the Centre to run special trains to bring back stranded migrant workers and students. “The numbers are huge and many are stranded in faraway places like Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai. A bus will take six to seven days to go and come back and practically it is not feasible to bring so many people by buses. It will take more than a month,” Modi said. He urged the Centre to allow non-stop special trains to run while maintaining social distancing norms and with food arrangements to bring back people to Bihar. The deputy CM, however, assured that the government has made all possible arrangements for the people who will be coming back to the state. “Those coming back will be screened at the border and then taken to block-level quarantine centres with food and lodging facility,” said SuMo, adding, students will be home quarantined. The state government appointed disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit as the nodal officer for this mammoth task. He will be assisted by a team of 12 senior officials, each of whom have been given a charge of a particular state or Union Territory. State water resources minister Sanjay Jha also said the task to bring back the stranded people was tough, but the government was working on it. Jha said unlike earlier when migrants were kept in quarantine centres in their panchayats, this time they will have to stay at quarantine centres at the block headquarters. “We have got information that some people used to sneak out at night and go to their homes, which is neither safe for them nor their family members and fellow villagers. S we have decided that facility for their stay with food will be made at the block level,” Jha said, adding, those found symptomatic during screening will be kept separately and tested and if found positive, will be kept in isolation. Jha warned that strict action will be taken against those who will try to sneak into the state without informing the authorities. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani issued directives to all DMs and SPs on Wednesday to restrict inter-district movement of people and vehicles. “The rising positive cases has showed that inter-district borders were not properly sealed. The entry and exit points should be sealed and lockdown enforced in letter and spirit,” he said, adding, only passengers and vehicles with valid travel passes will be allowed. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey also issued directives to SPs to carry out checking of vehicles at all inter-state check posts. Kaimur DM Nawal Kishore Singh and SP Dilnawaz Ahmad paid a visit to the quarantine centre at Durgawati, close to the UP border. The DM directed the health workers to strictly follow the fresh guidelines issued by the union home ministry. In Kaimur, altogether 160 migrant workers who had reached the UP border from different states on bicycles or on foot had to undergo the mandatory test at the Durgawati check post on Thursday. The officials obtained details informed about them before being allowed to go to respective hometown by buses. Similar instructions have also been issued for Saran, Gopalganj and Siwan districts which shared their borders with Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-seeks-special-trains-to-bring-migrants-home/articleshow/75478500.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||222 contacts, staff of shelter quarantined||CHANDIGARH: A day after a 79-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19, the municipal corporation quarantined 222 contacts of a Sector 38 youth, who had taken her to the hospital for treatment. Sources in the MC said, “The Sector 38 youth was also involved in providing ration and other essentials in his locality. He had visited many houses and came in contact with several people. His 222 contacts and 12 family members have been quarantined for 14 days.” “Samples of the youth and the elderly woman’s husband have been taken for test,” an MC official said. Besides, the authorities have also quarantined employees of special kids’ shelter Aashraya in Sector 47 and their families. “The sister of the first positive case of Bapu Dham worked at the shelter as a sweeper. She had tested positive on Wednesday. One persons who tested positive on Thursday evening is her brother’s neighbour,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-womans-222-secondary-contacts-staff-of-sec-47-kids-shelter-quarantined/articleshow/75480404.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Check movement of home-isolated in Sector 30-B’||CHANDIGARH: Even as the UT administration has installed CCTV cameras, deployed drones, police and CRPF personnel and sealed affected pockets, home-quarantined people allegedly continue to mix with other residents while buying vegetables and milk in these areas. The residents of Sector 30-B — from where 16 positive cases have been reported — have written a letter to the UT administrator and the UT adviser to bring to their notice “free movement of home-quarantined people” in their area. In a two-minute video, another resident has appealed to the UT administration to put a stop to it. Sector 30-B has already been declared an affected pocket and sealed. In this colony, the UT health department and the municipal corporation has home quarantined over 100 people. Khushwinder Singh, a resident of the area, told the TOI, “A number of home quarantined people wear gloves to cover quarantine stamps on their hands. They stand in queues with other people to buy vegetables and milk. This has led to panic among residents. We had alerted the authorities, including the police, but to no avail. After getting no help from any quarter, I finally wrote an email to the UT administrator, highlighting the area situation.” He said milk, vegetables and other essentials should be provided to the home-quarantined people at separate times and in separate vehicles. “And violators should be put at quarantine camps,” he added. Pawan Kumar, also a resident of Sector 30-B who has released the video, said, “As houses of quarantined people are close to the exit point, where official vehicles come to deliver vegetables, others come in their contact while making purchases. The UT administration must find a solution to this problem, else cases will continue to rise.”  Another resident said, “The police should lodge FIRs against violators.” Municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav said he would instruct police officials to strictly deal with the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sec-30-b-residents-write-to-ut-to-check-movement-of-home-quarantined/articleshow/75480393.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 1, 2020||Mumbai||He himself tied a rakhi on behalf of my wife||It’s a sad day today. I’ve lost a very dear friend. When someone messaged me this morning asking me if the news was true, I was sure that it wasn’t because I had spoken to Neetu just the night before. I tried calling Randhir but his phone was busy for a long time which gave me a sense that something was wrong. I didn’t have the heart to call Neetu so I eventually spoke to Ranbir and he confirmed the news. I broke down over the phone and instead of me consoling him, he consoled me. I had dinner with him on March 18, just a few days before the lockdown. We had both suffered from cancer around the same time — he was diagnosed in August and I in December. But we both remained very positive. He was quite vibrant when I met him last. He spoke about having gone to Delhi the previous month and how the pollution there had probably caused a relapse but he insisted that he was fine. I asked him not to worry and that it was a disease that he would need to give time to. I asked him to relax at home, not think of work and bounce back. Barely two weeks later he was hospitalised. We go back a long way—we got very close during the making of Khel Khel Mein (1975). Our nature was very similar. We were both outgoing, loved food and loved to enjoy life in the same ways. We went on so many holidays abroad together as couples—he, Neetu and their children (Riddhima and Ranbir) and me with my wife (Pinky Roshan) and kids (Hrithik and Sunaina). We did many films together as co-actors and later, he made a special appearance on a song in my first directorial venture and readily agreed to feature in Aap Ke Deewane, the first film I produced. As an actor, his strength was his spontaneity. During a retake, most actors will try and improve their lines while he would do something instinctive and completely different, which could be challenging for a co-actor but would amaze me as a director. It’s too early for me to even think of all my memories with him but the best thing about our friendship is that we knew each other’s faults and accepted them. That’s probably why our friendship endured for so many years. If he ever told me something that I may not want to hear, I’d never take it to heart. Because he is ‘Rishi Kapoor’ and he says things in a way that no one can. What he was inside, he showed it on the outside. He was very frank but never cunning or manipulative. I’m that way too and both of us called black black, and white white. He was a rakhi brother to my wife and when he was in New York for his treatment, he called to tell us that he had tied a rakhi on his own hand, on her behalf. That’s how sensitive he really was. (As told to Mohua Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/he-himself-tied-a-rakhi-on-behalf-of-my-wife/articleshow/75479581.cms||Rakesh Roshan
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu forms task force to woo companies exiting China||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a 16-member special investment promotion task force led by the chief secretary to attract investors from Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and the US. Investors from these countries are exploring options to exit some countries and relocate their manufacturing bases post the Covid-19 pandemic. The state is aiming for a big catch from China. The development comes in the wake of reports of India likely to become an alternative investment destination for companies exiting China. “It is to seize the opportunity in the existing circumstances, especially when most countries want to diversify their supply chain. The decision to set up the task force is suo moto to catch China-exiting units,” said a senior official. With reports of companies scouting sites in India, Bangladesh and Vietnam, the Tamil Nadu government wants to reap the benefits. The advantage is that these business houses have already made significant investments in the state in the past three decades, the official said. The task force has to identify sectors in which the state could attract investments due to relocation and formulate special incentive package that could be provided. It has to identify key infrastructure projects including dedicated industrial townships and identify measures to fast-track clearances to promote investments. The task force will have to recommend outreach activities and brand building to position the state as an attractive destination. It will have to submit its first report to the chief minister in a month and the final report within two months. “The state’s readiness stems from the fact that diplomatic channels and business groups are dropping hints about the possibility of relocation and the offers the state could make,” a source said. In the prevailing scenario, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has ordered the government to take all necessary steps to attract new investments in Tamil Nadu and create employment opportunities. The task force will include two nominees from among the Japan External Trade Organisation, Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency, Korean Chamber of Commerce and Taiwan External Trade Development Council. There will be two nominees from among the Indo American Chamber of Commerce, US-India Strategic Partnership Forum and US-India Business Council. Also, there will be a nominee from Enterprise Singapore and a representative each from Japanese Industrial Parks and Japanese, Korean, US, and Taiwanese companies in the state. The secretaries of finance, industries, MSMEs, managing director of guidance and commissioner of commercial taxes are the other members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-forms-task-force-to-woo-companies-exiting-china/articleshow/75481295.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Another Bapu Dham resident tests positive, 25th from colony||CHANDIGARH: One more case of Covid-19 was reported from Bapu Dham colony on Thursday, taking the count of positive cases from the colony to 25 and city’s tally to 74. The 32-year-old male patient is a community contact of the first positive case of the colony, with five household contacts and eight family contacts living in the same building. Two Covid-19 positive cases of Sector 52 are also household contacts of previously diagnosed Covid-19 positive case of the same family. One of these cases has 48 community contacts. Two Covid-19 positive cases of Sector 30 are also contacts of the previously diagnosed positive cases of the same family. Meanwhile, one of the contacts of a person, who was tested positive on Wednesday, had been working in Sector 47-located Ashreya, a home for the mentally challenged. The area has since been sealed and contact tracing of the persons testing positive on the day has also been done. Another patient from Bapu Dham admitted in the PGI on April 27 has been shifted to the ICU. He is on nasal prong. There is another patient in the ICU from Sector 38, who was admitted on Wednesday in the PGI. The 19-year-old female, who delivered a baby in GMSH-16 on Wednesday and tested positive, has 12 household contacts at the colony and two family contacts at Shastri Nagar in Manimajra. To date, 1,147 samples have been tested and 18 patients discharged, while reports of 50 others are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-bapu-dham-resident-tests-ve-25th-from-colony/articleshow/75480430.cms||Shimona Kanwar
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||2 of family attend Mominpura Covid victim’s burial||Nagpur: The 70-year-old man from Mominpura, who became city’s second coronavirus victim, was buried at Mominpura kabrastan on Wednesday night as per central government guidelines and in the presence of two family members — deceased’s son and a former corporator.One of deceased’s sons, who had tested negative and was placed under institutional quarantine, was reportedly given permission to attend the last rites. Though five members are allowed, only two attended the cremation.Officials from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Mahal-Gandhibagh zone including assistant commissioner Ashok Patil, zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin and others made the arrangements for the burial.Sanitary workers wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kit completed all formalities right from bringing the body from IGGMCH mortuary to hearse van and to the burial ground. Utmost care was taken in the entire process and the body was not touched by anyone. The workers used a long sheet of cloth to handle the body during the burial, as was done in case of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first Covid-19 death.The deceased was among 13 tested positive from a single family residing in Choodi Gully of Mominpura. The 70-year-old and 27 of his family members were quarantined on April 19 after his 42-old-son tested positive on April 18. He was admitted to IGGMCH on April 21. Remaining positive persons from the family have been admitted to IGGMCH and GMCH. Those tested negative are under institutional quarantine.As per IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya, the deceased was a patient of chronic hypertension. His condition was stable since he was admitted to the isolation sard. He suffered cardiac arrest and died at 3.30pm on Wednesday. The patient was not on ventilator support during the nine-day treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-of-family-attend-mominpura-covid-victims-burial/articleshow/75480447.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Done with my part on changing MSME’s definition, PM nod awaited: Gadkari||Nagpur: Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) Nitin Gadkari said he has done his part for changing the definition of MSMEs and now only the Prime Minister’s approval of the proposal is awaited.“Industries can hope to get the new definition in 8 to 10 days,” said Gadkari, addressing a webinar organized by Maharashtra Economic Development Council (MEDC). Although no further details were divulged during the webinar, Gadkari has been stressing on changing the criterion for classifying a unit as a MSME even earlier. Independent sources said the move is expected to bring more industries into the MSME sector. It has been learnt that apart from capital investment even turnover may be considered in counting an industrial unit as a MSME. At present only capital investment is the criterion.There are chances that fresh limits may expand the scope for bringing industries into the MSME ambit, a source said.At present, a unit with investment up to Rs5 lakh is a classified as a micro enterprise. It’s a small industry if the investment is between Rs25 lakh to Rs5 crore, and medium from Rs5 crore to Rs25 crore.Gadkari said he has submitted a proposal for other financial packages for the sector before the Prime Minister and finance minister. It will not be right to divulge further details till a decision is taken, he said. He asked industries to ask for as much aid as they can. The government till provide till its last limit, he said.Gadkari said the highways have already started and up to 70% traffic has begun plying. He also invited realty players to enter the infrastructure sector, said the minister.Gadkari said he is also lobbying for the government to take up equity in the non-banking finance corporation he has proposed to the real estate industry to meet its requirement of finance.The minister said he has also ensured that the working capital limits of the industries are increased by 20% as a formal order can come later. When a delegation of industrialists called on him to say that even as an announcement has been made no written order has been issued, Gadkari said he has called up the SBI chief to get the limits enhanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/done-with-my-part-on-changing-msmes-definition-pm-nod-awaited-gadkari/articleshow/75480435.cms||Shishir Arya
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Another Bapu Dham tests +ve, 25th from colony||Chandigarh: One more case of Covid-19 was reported from Bapu Dham colony on Thursday, taking the count of positive cases from the colony to 25 and city’s tally to 74. The 32-year-old male patient is a community contact of the first positive case of the colony, with five household contacts and eight family contacts living in the same building.Two Covid-19 positive cases of Sector 52 are also household contacts of previously diagnosed Covid-19 positive case of the same family. One of these cases has 48 community contacts. Two Covid-19 positive cases of Sector 30 are also contacts of the previously diagnosed positive cases of the same family.Meanwhile, one of the contacts of a person, who was tested positive on Wednesday, had been working in Sector 47-located Ashreya, a home for the mentally challenged. The area has since been sealed and contact tracing of the persons testing positive on the day has also been done.Another patient from Bapu Dham admitted in the PGI on April 27 has been shifted to the ICU. He is on nasal prong. There is another patient in the ICU from Sector 38, who was admitted on Wednesday in the PGI. The 19-year-old female, who delivered a baby in GMSH-16 on Wednesday and tested positive, has 12 household contacts at the colony and two family contacts at Shastri Nagar in Manimajra.To date, 1,147 samples have been tested and 18 patients discharged, while reports of 50 others are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-bapu-dham-tests-ve-25th-from-colony/articleshow/75480422.cms||Shimona Kanwar
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Corona scare triggers anxiety among COPD, asthma, flu patients||Nagpur: The coronavirus pandemic has resulted in patients of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma and common flu complaining of increased breathlessness. The cause is anxiety, say doctors.Unseasonal rains are lashing Nagpur in the last two days, so by next week doctors say they will know if there is spurt in flu and common cold cases. Pulmonologist Dr Vinit Niranjane said corona scare is having a bigger impact on psyche of asthma patients. “Many asthma patients are complaining of increased breathlessness but in many cases the cause is anxiety due to corona scare. Asthmatics should remain calm and consult early if having any such complaints,” he said. “Asthma-affected people feel they are at a higher risk of getting infected by corona. Though the number of common cold and flu cases is low in summer, there is fear among people. But the number of patients has not increased as such,” Dr Niranjane said.Chest physician Dr Vikrant Deshmukh said that people having common cold with symptoms like sneezing, fever and cough fear they are infected with coronavirus. “This is because symptoms are overlapping. But people who are at home and not going out need not fear. They can even consult their doctor on phone. The common flu subsides in three-four days. Those who have not followed lockdown or not staying indoors should visit government facilities for tests,” Dr Deshmukh said.About increase in the number of flu cases, Dr Deshmukh said overall there is a drop in patients coming to clinics. “I practice in Dhantoli where 50% of patients come from Madhya Pradesh. Patients from city having flu like symptoms are advised over the phone and, if needed, told to visit GMCH or IGGMCH,” he said adding that common people are going to panic to some extent.Pulmonologist Dr Syed Tarique said that since lockdown, patients themselves have become more aware and are taking precautions. “Limited number of patients are coming to my clinic. If someone is having fever with cough, they ask whether it is coronavirus,” he said.Dr Tarique said the impact of unseasonal rains on health will be seen by next week. “We will know if there is spurt in flu and common cold cases by next week,” he said. He said people with COPD and asthma and other pre-existing lung diseases are in high risk group. “During weather change they become more susceptible,” he said.InfogfxSocial shielding must for asthma, COPD patients * Asthma and COPD are chronic in nature and on an average remain for lifelong* Lungs of such patients are compromised. Hence, any new infection like coronavirus is risky for them * Generally, due to seasonal change their lungs get infected * Like social distancing, these patients need to have social shielding * Social shielding is to avoid face-to-face encounters with all, including near ones. Avoid direct face-to-face contact with milkman, paper, vegetable vendors, relatives, friends etc * They must stay indoors as much as possible as their immunity is also weak* Many times it is difficult to understand how they get infected * If they feel breathless, it could be because of disease per se * But if it is accompanied with fever it can be new infection, including Covid-19 * These people should be advised to stay indoors for two months — May and June * If feeling unwell and having fever, they must immediately see a doctor.* If they are not venturing out, then hopefully prescribed medicines will help their recovery(Tips and warnings from Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nagpur president Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala for people at high risk)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-scare-triggers-anxiety-among-copd-asthma-flu-patients/articleshow/75480426.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||2 more test +ve for Covid-19 in U’khand||Dehradun: Two more Covid-19-positive cases were reported from Udham Singh (US) Nagar district on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 57. According to the health department, both the Covid-19 patients from US Nagar were shifted to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College, Haldwani. Both the positive cases are natives of Almora and were coming back to their village from Maharashtra. US Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailja Bhatt told TOI that the two positive cases had travelled in various vehicles to reach Uttarakhand from Maharashtra. “A total of five people were caught by police on the border of US Nagar and they were admitted to a hospital here. They all were asymptomatic but we took their samples and two of them turned out to be positive," she added. Meanwhile, to augment Covid-19 testing in the hills, CM Trivendra Rawat on Thursday inaugurated a testing facility at Vir Chandra Singh Garhwali Government Institute of Medical Science and Research in Srinagar. At the inauguration of the testing lab, CM Rawat said, "This will be the fourth testing lab in Uttarakhand with a maximum capacity to test 100 samples per day." In another development, Bahadrabad police in Haridwar on Thursday nabbed eight Jamaatis for allegedly hiding their travel history. Cases are yet to be registered against them and they have been admitted to a private medical college in Roorkee for observation. (with inputs from Tapan Susheel)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-ukhand/articleshow/75479460.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Duo pose as journos, extort shopkeeper||Bhopal: The crime branch on Thursday registered a case against two alleged conmen, who posing as journalists, reached a grocery shop with their fake IDs and camera kit and threatened the shopkeeper that unless he paid Rs 50,000, they would broadcast video footage that he was selling gutkha and cigarettes at high rates. The duo allegedly took Rs 15,000 from the shopkeeper, threatening that if he doesn’t pay, they will broadcast the news. ASP, crime branch, Nishchal Jharia, said that complainant Shafi-Ullah-Khan, 28, a resident of Ashoka Garden, runs a grocery shop on the ground floor of his house. He filed a written complaint with crime branch on Wednesday night, stating that two bike-borne men came to his shop around 4 pm and introduced themselves as Kafil Ahmed and Salim Haq Abbasi. They showed their ID cards and were holding a camera kit with mike. They said they have video footage that he was selling gutkha and cigarattes from his shop at higher rates. They pressurised him to pay extortion money Rs 50,000 or else they will broadcast the news on their channel and get his shop sealed. ASP Jharia said that Khan told police that he was terrified and paid them Rs 15,000 after which they went away, telling him that they will come two days later for the remaining amount. They threatened him of dire consequences if they revealed the incident to anyone. The accused were caught on the CCTV camera fitted at the shop while threatening Khan. Police have registered a case and investigations are on in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/duo-pose-as-journos-extort-shopkeeper/articleshow/75481285.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Erode||Erode: Farmer survives leopard attack||ERODE: A 30-year-old man was injured in leopard attack near Thalavadi here on Thursday evening. According to the Asanur police, the incident took place when S Raju, a farmer from Arulvadi village, was ploughing his land around 3pm. “The leopard suddenly pounced on him and attempted to drag him to the nearby forest. Raju, however, managed to escape and raised an alarm, drawing fellow villagers to the spot. The leopard luckily fled when they threw sticks at it,” a police officer said. The villagers also took Raju to the government hospital in Thalavadi. Talking to TOI, a doctor said Raju had sustained injuries to his face, hands, chest and some other parts of the body. “His condition is stable, but it will take at least a month to heal the wounds completely.” Raju was later shifted to the government hospital in Chamrajnagar in Karnataka. Meanwhile, forest officials rushed to the village to track and catch the animal. “The leopard is hiding in the nearby forest area in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/farmer-survives-leopard-attack/articleshow/75480433.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Student booked for sexual harassment in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda cyber crime police booked a case of sexual harassment against a 20-year-old student. The accused, Gavini Sanjay Raju, a resident of Achampet, met the victim on Facebook. Both became friends. However, their friendship hit a rough patch once the girl rejected a marriage proposal from Raju. Since then, she avoided talking to him. Raju started harassing her by sending sexually explicit messages on WhatsApp. To embarrass her even more, Raju had sent explicit images of the girl to her relative. He threatened to post explicit images of her on social media if she continued avoiding him. He was booked under sections 504 and 506 of IPC and relevant sections of the IT Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-booked-for-sexual-harassment/articleshow/75481302.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Foot-operated handwashing station built by instructors at Vasco ITI||MARGAO: The Government’s industrial training institute(ITI) at Vasco has come up with an innovation in developing a hands-free handwashing station comprising a water tap and a soap dispenser. The unit was designed and fabricated by a group of ITI instructors under the guidance of group instructor Bashir Ahmed. Explaining the working of the unit, an instructor involved in designing the unit said, “The design of the mechanism and the fabrication of the unit are innovative, as it is foot-operated. Besides, as there are no mechanical linkages used, the unit is cost-effective.” Significantly, items that were lying around the ITI premises were used for making the washing station. “Every part of the device was already available in our government ITI, Vasco, including the kitchen sink, push tap and the stand. We only had to perform some minor modifications. Nothing needed to be purchased except for the soap dispenser bottle,” the instructor explained. The Vasco ITI is the only one in the state implementing the Centre’s upgradation PPP scheme partnering with Zuari Agro Chemicals Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/foot-operated-handwashing-station-built-by-instructors-at-vasco-iti/articleshow/75481896.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: To meet shortage, Hospicio holds blood donation camps||PANAJI: After an acute shortage, the blood bank at Hospicio, Margao, has stabilised thanks to the good Samaritans who have been walking in to donate blood and the various clubs that have been creating awarenes among youth to attend the camps. “Camps can be organised only after obtaining permission from the collector. In the meantime, we receive five to seven walk-in donors on a daily basis. We ask each donor who comes in to try and bring in ten more donors,”said a doctor at Hospicio . During the lockdown, the blood bank faced a shortage as it wasn’t able to organise the eight to ten camps it regularly holds each month. Even its usual donors — from the tourism industry, companies in the Verna industrial estate who take it up as their CSR, and college students — could not be of help in the past few weeks. With the collector’s permission, groups are starting to hold camps outside Hospicio. There is a camp scheduled on May 9 by Lions Club of Colva at their club hall. At their second in-house camp held at Hospicio during the lockdown, the Lions Club of Canacona and JCI Salcete coastal received 34 donors from as far as Canacona, Ponda, Shiroda, Curchorem, Raia, Curtorim, Benaulim and Navelim. Special travel passes were arranged for the donors to be able to commute without any hurdles. A team from Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd, led by Suresh Kumar, also came in to donate blood. The organisers were happy to have a B-negative blood donor, Shubham Kanekar, who come all the way from Ponda. “It is usually very rare and difficult to find blood donors with negative blood groups,” president of Lions Club of Canacona, Adrian Torres, said. With the fear psychosis still prevalent, Torres said they have received requests to hold camps outside the hospital premises.“People said they are ready to donate, but don’t want to enter Hospicio or GMC. They’re thinking twice because of the Covid-19 infection,” he said. As a result their next camp will be held at the Rotary Club Hall in Fatorda on May 6. Those interested in donating blood can contact Hospicio blood bank on 0832-2703801 for queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-meet-shortage-hospicio-holds-blood-donation-camps/articleshow/75481905.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||One-year-old gets surprise birthday cake from Mohali cops||MOHALI: Bringing smiles on the faces even amid the lockdown, the Mohali police arrived at the house of a Kharar girl, who just turned one. A team of five officials of the Balongi police station reached Avnoor Kaur’s residence, who resides in Sector 125 of Kharar, with a cake to celebrate their first birthday on Wednesday afternoon. Sunil Kumar, posted at the Balongi police station, said “Avnoor’s mother Amandeep had made a call at the police control room following which we were notified as the area falls under our jurisdiction. Five of us went with a cake along with candles that we had bought from Phase 3B2 to make her day special.” The official added that when they went to celebrate the child’s birthday, people from the neighbourhood came to appreciate their efforts. “Few of the nearby residents showered flower petals on us.” As the cops reached birthday girl’s residence, her family was already waiting for them. The family even offered sweets to the cops. “The cops are working day and night as frontline warriors in the current scenario. We all should applaud their efforts and stand by their side,” said man, who was showering flower petals on the cops. The Mohali police also took it to their twitter handle and shared the entire video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-year-old-gets-surprise-birthday-cake-from-mohali-police/articleshow/75480441.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||Eye on investments & jobs, PM Modi pushes coal, mining reforms||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Thursday asked coal and mines ministries to roll out the next wave of reforms for attracting big-ticket investments, domestic processing of minerals and substituting imported thermal coal with inventory of domestic output for building self-reliance in these areas. A government statement said the PM asked the top brass from both the ministries to reform the structure for auctioning mines and put in place efficient institutional arrangements to ensure wider participation from the private sector in exploration and mining. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe PM’s stress on moving towards self-reliance and investments comes in the backdrop of the government drawing up a blueprint to kickstart economic activities and generate employment once the country comes out of the anti-coronavirus lockdown. Read AlsoCovid-19: PM Modi signals push to attract firms that exit China to IndiaPM Modi on Thursday discussed ways to attract investments with his top ministerial colleagues, paving the way for a comprehensive strategy paper to be formally cleared by the cabinet in the coming weeks. The PM had signalled to boost investments by capturing a part of the supply chain expected toThere was discussion on auctioning additional blocks to attract fresh investments and inducting technology to reduce the cost of mining and transportation. Asking the mines ministry to prepare an action plan for benchmarking operations to international standards, the PM exhorted using modern technologies for efficient mining. He also directed that delays in obtaining clearances should be reduced and partnership with states must be established to facilitate increase in private investments. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWays to turn the public sector more competitive as well as broad-basing community development activities through the Mineral Development Fund were also discussed. Use of sea routes for domestic supplies was also considered. Other areas identified for further reforms included efficient and environmentally sound first-mile connectivity for transporting coal from mines to railway slidings, automatic loading on wagons, coal gasification and liquification as well as coal bed methane exploration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eye-on-investments-jobs-pm-pushes-coal-mining-reforms/articleshow/75482514.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Active coronavirus cases in district drop to nine||COIMBATORE: Four more Covid-19 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital and PSG Hospitals on Thursday, taking the total number of recovered people to 132 in the district. Presently, there are only nine positive cases in the district. According to a health department source, the district would be free of novel coronavirus cases by Monday (May 4), if it doesn’t report any fresh cases. However, those discharged from the hospitals have been advised to remain in home quarantine for another two weeks. The district has not recorded a new Covid-19 case for the past seven consecutive days. If it maintains the status quo for another seven days, the district would be eligible to be considered an orange zone. The public health department said 132 of the 141 Covid-19 patients have been recovered and discharged from hospitals in the district so far. Most of them had stayed in hospitals for at least 14 days and were tested negative for the virus twice, before discharged. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While there are another nine patients, who are undergoing treatment in the ESI Hospital and PSG Hospitals, they are all stable and have no major symptoms. They are likely to be discharged in another four days, provided that they test negative twice.” The district is, however, still in the red zone. Hence, the public health department would continue to screen as many people as possible. The had screened 333 people on Wednesday. They are likely to subject the same number of people in the coming days as well. “The drive to screen police officers and working media professionals is going on. We have also begun testing all the patients coming to PSG Hospitals, Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and primary health centres, etc., with sore throat, cold, cough, fever, severe acute respiratory infection or breathlessness and pregnant women. On Wednesday, at least 43 samples were taken from primary health centres,” Dr Kumar said. On Thursday, testing of conservancy workers and sanitary workers in and around containment zones has also begun. “We have a stock of 1,750 viral transport medium (VTM) kits. We receive almost 5,000 of them a week. So, screening of vulnerable sections of people will continue until we are told to slow down,” the deputy director of public health said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-coronavirus-cases-in-district-drop-to-nine/articleshow/75480454.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Workers in Tamil Nadu pool in money to buy bikes, cycles to ride back home||CHENNAI: With the Centre relaxing norms and allowing guest workers to travel inter-state by road, several workers in Sriperumbudur have pooled in money to buy bicycles and two-wheelers to reach their homes. Hundreds of guest workers in Sriperumbudur’s SIPCOT Industrial Estate are looking to buy second-hand bicycles and motorbikes to commence their journey. Gopal Singh, 27, who is from Bihar’s Kaimur district and six of his roommates are exploring the option. "We are not going to wait anymore, we have decided to go back home," said Singh. SIPCOT, which falls under the Kancheepuram district, has 34,870 guest workers from over 15 northern and eastern states. Of them, nearly, 6,000 workers live in Mambakkam, Ananeri, Pal Nallore and surrounding villages. "It’s been eight to 10 months since we shifted here. Though we consider this as our second home, we want to be with our families now. My parents call me every day and ask me to get home at any cost," said Singh, who saved Rs 1,500 to buy a cycle and pedal his way back home. Singh’s friends Devilal Sigh, 27, Saroj Kumar, 23, Om Prakash, 24, Kameshwar Singh, 32, and six others had pooled in money and managed to buy five second hand motorbikes. The group had left Sriperumbudur on April 22 but were stopped at Vijayawada by officials and were moved a quarantine facility. "We are determined to go from here," said Rajan Kumar Das, 24, from Bhubaneswar, Odisha. While the distance between Sriperumbudur and Kaimur is 2,100km, one of the guest workers from West Bengal, Pradhan, said, "Distance is not an issue. I plan to wait until May 3. If the lockdown is extended, I have other plans." Pradhan did not say what his plans were, but enduring another lockdown was not one of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-pool-in-money-to-buy-bikes-cycles-to-ride-back-home/articleshow/75481318.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 1, 2020||Goa||With tourism halted, Goa’s garbage output down to 40 per cent||PANAJI: With tourism activities in the state coming to a standstill due to the lockdown, garbage generation has reduced to around 40%. When tourism activities were at the peak, the 150-tonne capacity solid waste management facility (SWMF) at Saligao used to receive nearly 200 tonne of wet, dry and garden/tree waste. Post the lockdown, this has halved, forcing the authorities to look at ways to keep the plant functional. Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) managing director Levinson Martins told TOI that it has decided to approach neighbouring panchayats for their waste so as to enable continued functioning of the plant. Prior to the March 22 national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Saligao plant used to receive waste from around 25 coastal panchayats. Besides shutting down of the tourism industry, it was also the closing of markets that contributed towards garbage reduction, a senior officer said. The GWMC has also started collecting waste from along highways and bailing of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) is in full swing. The officer said that with Karnataka’s cement factories also closed, the state has been unable to send the RDF for incineration and is instead storing it for now. The government is setting up garbage treatment plants at Bainguinim, Verna and Cacora and has received the environmental clearance for the Bainguinim plant. The officer said that the GWMC is in the process of finalising the tender document for the Bainguinim plant and, once it is ready, bids will be invited for setting up of the plant. The officer said that the pace of work on the Cacora plant has slowed due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-tourism-halted-states-garbage-output-down-to-40/articleshow/75481914.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Private school in Chandigarh strikes off child's name from online class over fee||CHANDIGARH: Despite warning from the education department that schools have to give a window period of one month after the lockdown is lifted and schools reopen, a private school in Chandigarh struck off the name of a child over non-payment of fees on Thursday, a parent has alleged. Following the school’s alleged act, the parent has sent a written complaint to the district education officer and director school education, Chandigarh. As per the complainant, his ward was removed from online class because he did not pay the annual charges and tuition fees. The child is in Class II of a Sector 41 school. The school principal has denied the allegations and said the child was unable to join the class due to technical errors. “Many other students have faced similar issues. Also, we want to create a classroom atmosphere in these online classes, and if any parent/sibling repeatedly comes into the video interfering and disturbing the class, then also we remove the child after due warning. So there could be a number of reasons the child was removed from the class. What has really happened the parent is not writing. She is just interested in complaining. It would have been great had the parents contacted us first, instead of complaining to the education department.” Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We are taking corrective measures. ” Recently, the district education officer had issued explanation letters to certain schools for giving deadline for fee payment and insisting parents to pay the dues early despite the fact that the department had prohibited schools from doing so. As per sources, this act of involving children in fee-related matter is even otherwise prohibited by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). In 2018 after a Chandigarh-based school expelled seven students for non payment of fees, the NCPCR had written to the education department stating that the act was “violation of section 75 of the JJ Act, 2015, amounting to imprisonment of up to five years or fine of Rs 5 lakh or both”. Also, despite warnings and issuing of letter of explanation,, many schools have continued to send messages insisting parents to pay fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kids-name-struck-off-from-online-class-over-fee-parent/articleshow/75480449.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Chandigarh schools prescribing more subjects, non-NCERT books’||CHANDIGARH: In three days, several parents have complaint against nearly 25 private schools of Chandigarh for prescribing more subjects that allowed by the Union ministry of human resource and development as well as non-NCERT books for the ongoing academic session. As per the district education Officer’s (DEO) last circular issued in 2018, there is a cap of subjects to be taught in classes I and II and also no homework can be given in these children. However, this order was not being followed, the parents have alleged. Sources in the UT education department have confirmed receiving multiple complaints in this reagard.. Copy of some of the complaints is with TOI. “A bare perusal of the attached list of subjects/books prescribed by the school reveals stress on excessive subjects and non-NCERT textbooks. A school cannot be allowed to violate the law just because it is an institution. Rather, it should also be dealt with like an ordinary lawbreaker to send out the right message in the public,” one of the complaints against a Sector 44-based school read. In November 2018, the MHRD had issued directives to all states and Union Territories stating, “Schools should not prescribe any other subjects except languages and mathematics for classes I and II and language, EVS and mathematics for classes III-V students as prescribed by the NCERT.” As per parents’ complaints, additional subjects like computers/technology, arts & craft, moral science and general knowledge were introduced in early classes, even at kindergarten level in some cases. “Many parents have individually complained and we are scanning other schools as well. We will file more complaints in the coming days,” said Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh parents’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-prescribing-more-subjects-non-ncert-books/articleshow/75480452.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||160 new ICU beds at Haldwani, medical colleges in Almora and Rudrapur to have additional beds as well||Nainital: With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to rise in the state, the medical facilities in the Kumaon region are expected to get a push as the Kumaon commissioner said that 160 new ICU beds will be set up at the Covid-19 specialist Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital (STH) in Haldwani. Newly appointed commissioner Neeraj Khairwal said, "The government has declared STH a Covid-19 specialist hospital and it is also the biggest hospital in Kumaon. Therefore, it is necessary that the STH is well equipped to handle the number of cases even in the worst case scenario. We have planned to increase the number of ICU beds in the STH from 37 at present to 200 very soon," Khairwal said. Khairwal held a meeting with several officials of the district administration as well as health department and said that the government is also making efforts to install 300 beds each at the Almora Medical College and Rudrapur Medical College so that the patients from the remote areas can be treated there without having to travel to the STH. A 12-16 bed ICU will also be developed at the Haldwani Base Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/160-new-icu-beds-at-haldwani-medical-colleges-in-almora-and-rudrapur-to-have-additional-beds-as-well/articleshow/75479483.cms||Prashant Jha
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Criminal cases against those who are obstructing to Covid victims’ last rites: Jagan||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday said that criminal cases will be booked against those obstructing the performance of final rites of Covid-19 victims. The CM said that it was inhuman to oppose the final rites of the deceased. He expressed serious displeasure at locals creating ruckus when the officials took the body of a Covid-19 victim to the burial ground in Kurnool district. “We should not allow such things to happen. Firmly deal with such people by slapping criminal cases,” chief minister directed the officials on Thursday. Jagan reviewed the Covid-19 containment measures with the officials at the CM’s camp office. Referring to the Kurnool district incident, the chief minister said people should not treat Covid-19 patients as untouchables. He said people should realise they may too face such a situation. “I have been telling this for the past few days that no one should discriminate against Covid-19 patients and keep them away as untouchables. The virus could infect anyone including me. Discriminating and disrespecting the dead is more inhumane,” said the chief minister. He asked DGP Gautam Sawang to initiate criminal cases against the protestors as per the guidelines issued by the Centre under the Epidemic Act. He appealed to people to allow the performance of final rites with dignity. The CM said that the people should keep in mind that Covid-19 is a treatable disease as thousands of people were getting discharged from hospitals after recovering completely. “Many people are getting discharged from hospitals in our state. They are going home safely because they have recovered. Why should people discriminate against others?” asked the CM. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and special CS (health) Jawahar Reddy told the chief minister that 80 clusters have been designated as very active and that there are 64 active and 66 dormant clusters in the state. They said that they were implementing micro-level action plan to contain the disease in Kurnool, Guntur and Vijayawada cities and identifying vulnerable cases in advance and screening them for other ailments to reduce fatalities. They said discharge rate would increase in the next few days as many of the positive patients were on their way to recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/criminal-cases-against-those-who-are-obstructing-to-covid-victims-last-rites-jagan/articleshow/75479479.cms||Samdani MN
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘It was better in the hospital. At least we got food in time’||Nagpur: The sudden sound of azaan from the Badi Masjid breaks the eerie silence in the desolate lanes of Satranjipura — now infamous as city Covid-19 hotspot. Barricades over 100 metres away block the entry in this Muslim majority area from the Lakadganj police station end. The city’s first Covid-19 casualty lived at a stone’s throw from the masjid.There is hardly anyone left in the area now. The last batch of 400 was taken away for quarantine on Thursday night. Even at the mosque, only the cleric and two others are allowed to make prayer calls. More than 1,400 persons from the locality of around 1,700 are now in different quarantine facilities. Police and SRPF keep a strict vigil on the remaining residents. Those remaining are the old, the disabled and also over a dozen recently discharged Covid positive patients who are back home. In another direction, a man accompanied by a woman is seen limping his way across the road carrying a sack on his shoulders. He enters the lane of an adjoining pocket. The area was sealed after a woman paramedic tested positive here.Signs of life are still visible a little over 50 metres away on the old Bhandara Road which has affluent pockets like Quetta Colony and parts of Lakadganj. This is less than a km from the Badi Masjid, yet there are no restrictions on movement here.“You can enter Satranjipura from Itwari Bazaar side,” said a cop. As TOI approached through the narrow lanes of Itwari grain market, the bustle was seen again close to the Masjid from Maskasath Chowk .“It’s nothing but the pain of being away from your family,” said a customer standing at the lone medical store a Masjid’s corner. He was narrating the tale of his days at the hospital as a Covid-19 positive patient to the shopkeeper. The cheer on his face covered with a mask could be seen in his eyes.Azeem Khan (name changed), advised home quarantine for 14 days, said he had no choice but to step out to buy medicines as there was no one to assist him. Khan could be just another person until he acknowledge being a former Covid patient. A day after Khan returned, he was joined by another kin. He had come to the store for buying medicines prescribed to recovered Covid patients.“On coming back, I realized life was better in the hospital. At least we used to get food in time back there. It's a struggle now. We cannot go beyond this point,” he said pointing at the barricade. Khan stays close to the home of first Covid victim. Soon after the death, other members of his family were picked and they tested positive at the hospital.Back home, it is a new struggle for the family, he said. “The doctors have advised us not to observe Roza (fast), but getting food itself is difficult. We are running out of money too and are managing to get supplies from those who are kind enough to help,” he said. He alleged that recently a shopkeeper drove away his relative like an untouchable.The silence kills. The only other family in the neighbourhood lives a couple of homes away “We haven’t seen them since a month. There are strict orders not to move out of the house except to buy necessities. Sometimes we go to the terrace,” he said as the SRPF personnel asked him to get inside.The police had their rifles and tear gas shells ready to meet any eventuality, though little possibility of any chaos was seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/it-was-better-in-the-hospital-at-least-we-got-food-in-time/articleshow/75480458.cms||Shishir Arya
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||BJP warns of agitation as devp boards’ term ends||Nagpur: Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has failed to extend the term of statutory development boards for Vidarbha, Marathwada and Rest of Maharashtra. Their terms ended on Thursday. Maharashtra cabinet met at least twice in April but failed to discuss the issue. BJP jumped at the issue calling it another injustice to backward regions of Vidarbha and Marathwada and warned of an intense agitation if Uddhav Thackeray government failed to renew these boards constituted on April 30, 1994. Nearly, 70-80 BJP MLAs have written to the CM demanding an extension to the boards to ensure development of backward regions. “If they (MVA) do not extend the tenure, it would be a big setback to two decades of fight that we all put in. The NCP always opposed the creation of the boards, although they were constituted when Sharad Pawar was CM. CM Thackeray seems to be under pressure of NCP not to extend the boards’ tenure which would be a big injustice to Vidarbha and Marathwada,” leader of opposition in assembly Devendra Fadnavis told TOI. The former CM added even governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari had written to Thackeray about granting extension to the boards before the term ended. “We are quiet due to coronavirus pandemic but we will launch an agitation if the government fails to act,” he warned. Energy minister and North Nagpur MLA Nitin Raut said he too had written to the CM in this regard. “I have spoken to the CM and he has assured me the proposal to extend boards’ tenure would be tabled in next cabinet meeting. I have also raised issue of government jobs under Article 371 (2) as per the Nagpur Pact, where Vidarbha has got less representation. The percentage of employment from this region should increase,” he told TOI. Agreeing with Raut, former advocate general Shreehari Aney said though the government should have acted earlier, they could still extend the tenure. “The cabinet just needs to clear the proposal and send it to the governor who then forwards it to the President for consent. Beyond this, the government has no role in formation of board’s bodies. I believe organizations fighting for Vidarbha statehood should file a PIL in the high court if the government is unwilling,” he said. Former power minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule also demanded extension of tenure by five years to ensure backlog of Vidarbha and Marathwada was removed. # What if boards are not constituted * These boards act as an advisory body & think tank for the governor * In board’s absence, governor’s directives are not binding on the state govt * Backlog of irrigation and other things in Vidarbha and Marathwada will increase * Govt can distribute funds as per its will and not as per backlog of any region * This will lead to further increase in regional imbalance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-warns-of-agitation-as-devp-boards-term-ends/articleshow/75481968.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||No pay to teachers, SHRC seeks report||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the district educational officer (DEO) of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad on non-payment of salaries by private schools by June 9. The TSHRC on Thursday heard a petition filed by members of Telangana Private Teachers’ Forum. In the complaint, the teachers alleged that private schools were not getting salaries for 12 months, ESI, provident fund and other benefits. “The matter will be listed for further consideration before the commission on June 9 and will be taken up at 10.30am that day,” the SHRC said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-pay-to-teachers-shrc-seeks-report/articleshow/75481336.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Gang of seven rapes teen after throwing brother into well||BHOPAL: A group of seven men gangraped an 18-year-old girl after throwing her brother into a well in MP’s Betul district on Wednesday night. Five suspects have been arrested, three of whom are minors. This is the fourth rape in Madhya Pradesh in the lockdown period. The sexual assault went on for over four hours, while the brother – a 21-year-old – kept shouting for help. With roads deserted these days, there was no one to hear their cries. The siblings were returning on a motorcycle from Padhar town, where they had gone to fill petrol, when they were waylaid by the gang around 8pm, Betul SP DS Bhadoria told TOI. All of them are from Kappa that’s somewhere between the siblings’ village and Padhar. Around 8pm, this group of ruffians saw the brother and sister drive past and hopped on motorcycles to give chase, said Kotwali police station in-charge Rajendra Dhurvey. Bro of rape survivor out of danger: CopsThere were seven of them. They stopped the siblings on a deserted road. According to the survivor’s statement, they thrashed her brother, dragged him to a well and threw him in. Then, they took her to a nearby forest and gangraped her,” Bhadoria said. Dhurvey said the gang forced the girl on one of the bikes and took her to a patch of jungle around 400m away around 9pm. For the next four hours, she was in their captivity. Around 1am, the brother managed to climb out of the well and not knowing where the goons had taken her, made his way towards the road to seek help. By then, people from his village had set out in search. They spotted him, and were horrified to hear his story. They were preparing to search the jungle when they saw one of the accused bring the girl on his bike to drop her off at a distance. They nabbed him. “He took some names but managed to slip away in the darkness,” said Dhurvey. “Around 2am, they informed us. Our teams rushed to the spot and began looking for the accused. One of them was arrested from Kappa village. Based on his inputs, four others were arrested,” said Dhurvey. Police identified the two adults in custody as Sandeep and Shubham. “We are looking for the other two,” said the SP, adding that the siblings were injured but out of danger. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gang-of-7-rapes-teen-after-throwing-bro-into-well/articleshow/75481323.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||After Union home ministry nod, over 2,600 Nepalese stranded for over a month in U’khand return home||Pithoragarh: Around 2,600 Nepalese citizens, mainly labourers who had been stranded in Pithoragarh district for the past 32 days were sent back to their country on Thursday. Their movement was facilitated following guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Wednesday. After a nod from Nepalese authorities, the three entry gates of Jhulaghat, Dharchula and Baluakote on the Indo-Nepal border were opened. Amid chants of Bharat-Nepal Maitri Zindabad (Long Live India- Nepal friendship), the Nepalese citizens crossed the border. Several people from Nepal had come to Pithoragarh for work but they lost their jobs following the lockdown. However, they couldn’t cross over to their country as both India and Nepal had sealed the borders following the coronavirus threat. The Pithoragarh district administration had made six camps for them in Dharchula, Baluakote, Jauljibi, Baram, Jhulaghat and Pithoragarh town and food and other medical assistance were being provided to them. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said that border check posts were opened after a mutual agreement. "In the morning, an officer came from the other side and received all the Nepalese citizens. They were allowed to cross the border after necessary medical check up," he said, adding that 376 people crossed at Dharchula, 989 from Baluakote side and over 1299 from Jhulaghat. Dev Bahadur Bora, a Nepalese citizen who crossed over, said, "The Pithoragarh administration took good care of us and we were given proper food, shelter and medical facilities." Hema Devi, a resident of Baitadi in Nepal, said that she had come to India with her husband for undergoing treatment. "But soon after lockdown was announced and we got stranded here. Finally after a month at Jhulaghat, we are going home." Meanwhile, Dharchula sub-divisional magistrate AK Shukla said that an Indian woman, identified as Naina Devi, also came to India from Dharchula entry point along with her 3-year-old child. "She had given an application to the authorities on Wednesday mentioning that she was stranded in Nepal and wants to return to India to take care of her aged parents. A medical team conducted her check-up at the border following which she was advised 21 days home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-union-home-ministrynod-over-2600-nepalese-stranded-for-over-a-month-in-ukhand-return-home/articleshow/75479507.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Gudalur comes under health officials’ lens||Udhagamandalam: Health officials are closely monitoring Gudalur municipality area following the death of a 35-year-old woman, who exhibited some symptoms of Covid-19, from S S Colony in Gudalur town. On Thursday, they conducted an inspection in that area and took samples from 14 people who are either having fever or in the vulnerable category. The woman was treated for urinary tract infection at Pushpagiri Hospital in Gudalur town. While she developed fever due to the infection, she was tested negative for dengue, said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health. She was admitted to the hospital on April 25. When she was about to be discharged on April 27, she developed mild chest pain and severe sweating, the official said. “After providing her first aid for heart attack, she was referred to the Ooty government hospital. However, she died on the way.” At least four people from S S Colony have, meanwhile, been admitted to a private hospital with fever. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “Public health officials have been instructed to conduct an inspection to find out the cause fever in that cluster. Samples have been collected from the patients for Covid-19 and dengue tests. The colony and the surrounding areas have been cleaned with bleaching powder. Health officials are monitoring the area.” Pointing out that 10 other vulnerable people were also identified at S S Ccolony, Dr Balusamy said samples were taken from them too for the tests. He said health officials would cover around 15,000 houses in Gudalur municipality in a week’s time as part of their action plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gudalur-comes-under-health-officials-lens/articleshow/75480459.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Agra||Agra: Covid hotspots get ‘green zone’ tag now, lockdown norms to be relaxed||AGRA: The Agra district administration on Thursday re-categorised 11 areas, formerly marked as Covid-19 hotspots, into “green zones”, after no new Covid-19 case was reported from these areas in the last 28 days. Thus far, the district administration and police were enforcing a strict lockdown in these areas, with barricading to stop any movement. Now, chemist and grocery stores will be allowed to operate in these areas. Maintaining social distancing protocol, people will be allowed to come out to fetch their daily needs. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Over the last 28 days, no new Covid-19 case has been reported in 11 areas earlier marked as hotspots when 27 positive cases had surfaced in total from these neighbourhoods. After strict enforcement of lockdown, we have managed to stop the spread of infection in these areas. So, all these areas are now being downgraded as green zones. This does not mean there won’t be any lockdown there. However, there will be some relaxations to allow operation of shops selling essential items.” “In areas marked green zone, distribution of ration will start on May 1. Around 60,000 residents of these areas are eligible beneficiaries under the PDS scheme,” he added. According to data shared by the DM, 1,793 families in total were put under home quarantine these 11 hotspots. All of these people have completed 28 days in home quarantine, while the 27 people who were tested Covid-19 positive from these areas have all been declared cured of infection and discharged from hospital. The list of areas which have been declared green zones include Masterplan Road in Khandari, the area in the vicinity of Hotel Crystal Sarovar, Nagla Padi on NH 2, Railways Colony in Agra Cantonment, Kamla Nagar, Eminent Apartment, Mohanpura, Krishna Vihar in Jeevani Mandi, Khari Jumma in Fuwarra locality, Charsu gate and Maghtai village in Bichpuri block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-hotspots-get-green-zone-tag-now-lockdown-norms-to-be-relaxed/articleshow/75479500.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Tobacco items worth Rs 1.5 lakh seized from godown in Pollachi||COIMBATORE: A godown that was used to stock and supply tobacco products illegally was sealed in Pollachi on Wednesday. A food safety department official said they had conducted a raid at the godown on Kottor Road in Pollachi based on a tip and found 70kg of gutka and other tobacco products. He said godown owner Subramaniam was in the business of supplying banned tobacco products to various shops in Pollachi. “He smuggled them into the district from other states. The value of seized products is pegged at Rs 1.50 lakh. We have also sealed the godown.” In another incident, the Avinashipalayam police in Tirupur arrested a 41-year-old man with one litre of illicit arrack and 40 litres of fermented wash.  The accused was identified as N Thangavel, of Nochipalayam near Peruntholuvu. He was booked under Sections 4 (1) (a), 4 (1)(g) read with 4 (1-A) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and produced before a judicial magistrate court that remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tobacco-items-worth-rs-1-5-lakh-seized-from-godown-in-pollachi/articleshow/75480483.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||12 new Covid +ve in Amt in a day; panic over community spread fears||Amravati: Detection of 12 new Covid-19 cases from four different localities in the city on Thursday has heightened the concerns of the administration and put citizens in a wave of shock and fear.All the 12 positive persons have now been shifted to Covid ward for the treatment.The posting of the highest number of cases in a day, since the detection of the first case on April 4, has taken the total count of novel coronavirus positive cases in the district to 40. This includes seven deaths and four recovered cases. As of April 30, there are 29 positive cases in the Covid Hospital.The most number of cases (5) came from Kholapuri Gate locality, already a containment zone, where three women aged 70, 35 and 27 and two men aged 45 and 39 tested positive. This area has earlier thrown three cases, thus making it the most sensitive of the 14 localities in the city where this virus has spread its tentacles.Hanuman Nagar in the same area had its first Covid case today in the form of a 65-year-old woman, while three suspects from the family of a 55-year- old paan kiosk operator of Kanwar Nagar locality, who died in Covid Hospital on April 27 morning, too tested positive. The deceased’s report is, however, still awaited.Like Hanuman Nagar, Nalsabpura too emerged a new locality with Covid positive cases as two women aged 29 and 30 and a man aged 29 tested positive.The presence of the virus in different parts has created fears of community spread even as divisional commissioner Piyush Singh on Thursday reiterated that it is not so. “It’s not community spread,” he told TOI.An official said the new cases testing positive from Kholapuri Gate area are not related to a 58-year-old man, a native of Nandura Pinglai in Morshi tehsil, who has been residing in this locality for the last five years and tested positive on April 26. He has infected his 40-year-old wife and a 20-year-old boy in the neighbourhood on April 28, the source added.Of the three positive cases from the family of the deceased suspect from Kanwar Nagar, is his 70-year-old mother, 43-year-old brother and 47-year-old sister-in-law, the official said. As many as 18 family members and seven friends present at the funeral of this Kanwar Nagar deceased have been put in institutional quarantine at the Covid Hospital.Meanwhile, Amravati Municipal Corporation has declared Chetandas Bagicha in Masanganj locality a containment zone and sealed all entry points to it after it reported the Covid case of a 72-year-old man on Wednesday. Similar action has also been for Kanwar Nagar, while Hanuman Nagar and Nalsabpura localities already come under the previously announced containment zones, the official said.Collector Shailesh Naval said though there has been a spurt in the number of cases, people should not panic and cooperate with the administration by staying put at home. He said 43 reports were received on Thursday out of which 31 came negative and 12 positive. Naval also informed that 65 new samples have been sent for testing today. The health administration to date has screened 6,816 persons and sent 1,221 throat swabs samples for testing out of which 900 have tested negative and 40 positive, while reports of 274 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-new-covid-ve-in-amt-in-a-day-panic-over-community-spread-fears/articleshow/75480474.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa asking shipping companies to pay for quarantine violates Centre’s rules||PANAJI: The state government may have been insisting on the cruise liners and ship owners to pay for quarantine facilities for the seafarers but the standard operating protocol by the ministry of home affairs and the directorate general of shipping clearly puts the onus on the government for providing them with the facilities. The Goa government has also imposed additional quarantine measures over and above the Centre’s protocol. As per the March 20 order of DG shipping, crew aboard vessels that arrive at an Indian port after 14 days of departure from a foreign port do not have to be quarantined. The MHA’s SOP issued on April 21 said the port health authorities will grant a clean bill of health to the crew (pratique) after checking all the medical records, after which the crew members will be tested for Covid-19. “For the seafarer tested negative and signed-off, the local authority where the seafarer disembarks will be intimated about his clearance for sign-off and for issue of a transit pass from the place of disembarkation to the place of his or her residence,” the MHA’s SOP states. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has admitted that the seafarers tested negative for the Covid-19 after disembarking in Mumbai. More importantly, the vessels have been in Indian waters for more than a month and their last port call was 40 days ago, thus meeting DG shipping’s March 20 order. “The government can put in additional measures, but it does not mean that the vessel owner has to pay for it. All other states have sent their seafarers home. Only the Goa government is trying to seek an additional measure of a paid quarantine without justification,” said captain Venzy Viegas. According to Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, shipowners have to bear treatment and quarantine costs of their crew members once they join duty and till they are duly repatriated. On April 7, the Maritime Labour Convention was amended to set Covid-19 specific guidelines. It said expense of medical care and quarantine as a safety precaution must be covered by the shipowner until the seafarers are considered to be duly repatriated. The crew members have been quarantined aboard the vessel for over 14 days and in compliance with the MLC and International Labour Organisation (ILO) guidelines, the ship owner has borne the bill for this. Goa Seafarers’ Association founder Dixon Vaz said that shipping firms would be liable to pay medical and quarantine fees only when the crew members are on board the vessel and if the sailors were not already quarantined on the ship. Former advocate general for Goa and prominent high court lawyer Carlos Alvares Ferreira also questioned the objective of a paid quarantine facility for seafarers. “The seafarers were already quarantined on board before disembarking. They could be home quarantined even if required for an extended period if the state government wants to take additional precautions,” said Ferreira. The 2005 International Health Regulations (IHR) of the United Nations, of which India is a signatory, say that in times of a pandemic, “under no circumstances shall travellers or conveyance operators be denied the ability to depart from the territory of a state party pending payment of the charges”. “Immigration has already stamped home quarantine for the crew and the port health officer (PHO) has certified all the processes and agreed to the sign-off after verifying that they have no symptoms. Does it mean that the state government does not trust DG shipping procedure, the PHO and the immigration officials,” said Viegas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-asking-shipping-cos-to-pay-for-quarantine-violates-centres-rules/articleshow/75481912.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Four of Panchkula recover, sent to home quarantine||PANCHKULA: Four of the five active Covid-19 cases have recovered and were discharged on Thursday. They include a 44-year-old woman of Sector 15, her husband, 47, and two Tablighi Jamaatis of Khuda Baksh village of Pinjore, who have been sent to 28-day home quarantine, said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, chief medical officer, civil hospital, Sector 6. Of 18 positive cases in the district so far, 17 have been discharged.  The hospital staff sent them off with a round of applause. Residents of Sector 15 showered flower petals on the couple when they reached home. The CMO said, “Our 22 teams are working hard against novel coronavirus. Only one active case is left in the district now. As many as 119 samples’ reports are awaited.”  The woman had tested positive on April 14, her husband a day later and the two Jamaatis on April 10. Since April 20, no positive case has been reported from Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-of-panchkula-recover-sent-to-home-quarantine/articleshow/75480465.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Shopkeepers selling essentials at high price after dark in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: As the lockdown entered its 42nd day, a few shopkeepers desperate to get their businesses back on track have come up with a novel idea. They keep their shops open in the evening, even though only those selling essential commodities can remain open from 6 am to 11 am, and charge extra for all items. Most shopkeepers deploying this trick have their shops in narrow lanes and bylanes, away from the prying eye. “My shop is on the ground floor of my house. It’s useless to waste time at home and lose business. So I keep the shutter of my shop half rolled up in the evening and wait for customers. And, of course every day I get a few customers in the evening,” said P Sarath Kumar, a shopkeeper, to TOI. But the prices differ. A kilogram of sugar, which costs Rs 40 in the morning will cost you Rs 50 to Rs 60 in the evening. But when TOI approached a few customers about the price, they did not seem to resent it. “The government and district administration are monitoring the price of essential commodities. But in the evening shops are closed. If you need anything and you can get it by paying a premium of not more than Rs 20 to Rs 30 it is not bad. Non-essential commodities like cigarettes are selling for more than the MRP even in the morning. It further increases in the evening,” said K Siddharth, a local resident. The entire Visakhapatnam city, which falls under the jurisdiction of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, has been declared a red zone. Police are keeping a strict vigil and taking action against people, including shopkeepers, for defying the lockdown. “Despite our best efforts a few shop owners are playing hide-and-seek with us. Most police stations, especially those in the outskirts, have a huge jurisdiction. Sometimes it becomes impossible to keep vigil on all remote lanes and bylanes. But we are doing our best to ensure lockdown is followed strictly,” said a police official to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/shopkeepers-selling-essentials-at-high-price-after-dark/articleshow/75479503.cms||Arpit Basu
May 1, 2020||Agra||Agra: Activist moves child panel over 8-month-old's death||AGRA: A child rights activist on Thursday moved the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) over the death of an eight-month-old child after he was denied medical treatment. The child's family alleged that they were turned away by three private hospitals in Agra. The child died in the arms of his father at the emergency ward of SN Medical College, where he was "told to do paperwork" on Wednesday. The eight-month-old died a day after the death of a 12-year-old turned away by at least six private hospitals, which wanted Covid-19 status report before admission. According to Mohammad Bilal Hamza, a resident of Telipara locality under the Rakabganj police station, on Wednesday morning at around 9:30am, his son started bleeding from the nose. He and child's uncle took him to the district hospital. There staffers, instead of admitting the child, started asking questions. Seeing the delay in getting treatment, the duo tried admitting the child at three private hospitals in the Pratapura and Shahganj localities, but were turned away. Later, they took the child to the emergency ward of SN Medical College. Mohammad Shaan, child's uncle said, “The child could have been saved if a doctor was made available at SN Medical on time. The guard at the gate of the emergency ward only allowed his father in to get a written permission to admit the child. The staffers at the emergency ward even after repeated requests refused to admit the child without the paperwork.” Taking cognizance of the allegations of the family members, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has directed chief medical officer J Reebha to probe the matter and submit a report. On April 22, a pregnant woman lost her baby after at least two private hospitals denied her admission. Talking with TOI, child rights activist Naresh Paras said, “Due to the lockdown, medical treatment system in Agra has completely collapsed for non-Covid-19 patients. At least three children have died in the city due to unavailability of medical assistance on time. Each of these cases reveal carelessness on the part of the authorities. I have filed a complaint with NCPCR for action against those responsible for the death of children and ensure such incidents do not happen again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/activist-moves-child-panel-over-8-month-olds-death/articleshow/75479523.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Patiala: Patran man cuts wife’s hair, assaults her after she asks for Covid-19 test||PATIALA: The Patiala police have booked a man for criminal assault and dishonouring woman after he allegedly cut hair of his wife, who had asked him to get himself tested amid the coronavirus threat. The police said the incident took place following heated arguments between the couple. The accused has been identified as Bharpoor Singh of a village in Patran block. He works as a combine operator and had returned home on Sunday from work. According to the cops, on Monday wife of the accused had asked him to get a medical check-up done as he had come home after spending few days out due to work. The accused, however, refused to do so. Things escalated between the couple, following which the accused assaulted her and then cut off her hair. The station house officer (SHO) of Patran police station said the accused had been placed under arrest and a case was registered against him on the complaint of his wife. The SHO added that the accused assaulted the complainant while he was allegedly under the influence of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wife-asks-man-to-get-covid-19-test-gets-assaulted/articleshow/75480484.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Agra||Firozabad reports 6 new Covid positive cases, tally 111; 4 in Etah||AGRA: Six new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Firozabad, taking the district tally to 111. Out of these, 99 are active cases. The positive cases included one 31-year-old police constable of Ramgadh police station, whose sample was collected on Sunday. On Wednesday, the same police station had reported four cops, including sub-inspector, infected with the virus. Other corona cases were reported from Nehru Nagar, Rahim Nagar and Dak Bagla Prem Nagar. Meanwhile, in Etah district, a 22-year-old youth was tested positive. He originally belonged to Nagla Daar village of Farrukhabad district, but was putting up at her sisters in-laws house in Nabar village of Aliganj police limits of Etah district, after returning from Delhi. Currently, he has been kept at quarantine centre of J L N Mahavidaylaya but after receiving corona positive report from Aligarh JNCM on Thursday, the youth was shifted to an isolation facility in Bagwala. The health department has now started contact tracing and sanitisation of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/firozabad-reports-6-new-covid-ve-cases-tally-111-four-in-etah/articleshow/75479515.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Specially-abled boy gives PPE to cops in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Joining the fight against coronavirus (Covid-19), a 12-year-old specially-abled boy has donated masks, hand sanitisers, and gloves to the city police. A Class 7 student of Pen School, Mula Dipesh is the younger son of Dr Sridevi from the pathology wing of King George Hospital (KGH) and M Venkata Rao, a civil engineer. Inspired by the social works of his father as well as all those who have been continuously providing the police and health officials with protective gear, Dipesh bought everything from his own pocket money and handed them over to Kancharapalem circle inspector Krishna Rao on Thursday. “Dipesh was born with Meningomyelocele which formed a gap in his spine. He underwent surgery on the fifth day after his birth and now visits Kanchi Kamakoti’s child trust in Chennai for treatment,” Venkata Rao told TOI. “This is the time to support the people who are in the frontline of controlling the coronavirus,” Dipesh said. Applauding the boy for his noble gesture, inspector Krishna Rao said, “The public should get inspiration from this boy and come forward to serve the needy and poor people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/specially-abled-boy-gives-ppe-to-cops/articleshow/75479526.cms||Siva G
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Residents punch holes in DMC’s claim of sanitisation drive||Dehradun: Following claims of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) that they have carried out sanitisation drives in all areas of the city, several residents have alleged that their localities were left out of the campaign. Moreover, the residents also claimed that the fogging exercise has been happening in a scattered manner, leaving the by-lanes not "properly sanitised". Speaking to TOI, S L Gupta, a resident of Old Survey Road, said, "We have been waiting for our turn for the sanitisation drive, but it never came. It seems that the special drives are only limited to the main roads." Expressing similar concerns, residents of Vanasthali colony in Ballupur claimed that the sanitisation drive took place "long ago". "If the drive is taking place, then it must be done properly and regularly. It’s been a long time since the last sanitisation drive happened in our locality," said Rajendra Tomar, president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of the area. DP Juyal, a resident of Mohini road in Dalanwala, also claimed negligence by the DMC in this regard. "I have not seen a single person from the DMC team doing sanitisation here. The recent orders to provide 100 litres of sodium hypochlorite to ward councillors will not serve the purpose until the higher officials fix the accountability of people performing such drives." However, the DMC officials continued to maintain that they had carried out sanitisation drives in every part of the city. Responding to the allegations, Kailash Joshi, chief municipal health officer, said, "The teams have sanitised most of the places in the city. The additional 100 litres of sodium hypochlorite being given to each ward will cover any specific area that was left out during the drive. The solution would be made available for use as and when the councillors feel its requirement."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-punch-holes-in-dmcs-claim-of-sanitisation-drive/articleshow/75479562.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guv promulgates ordinance on salary as per govt request||Thiruvananthapuram: In a huge relief to the cash-strapped state government, governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Thursday gave his stamp of approval to the request for promulgating an ordinance that gives legal credence to the government decision to defer a portion of government employees’ salary for the next five months. Though there was lack of agreement among legal experts regarding the legal strength of the ordinance, the governor promulgated the ordinance without out raising questions. The draft ordinance was approved by the cabinet on Wednesday as an emergency measure to circumvent the high court order that questioned the government’s right to defer salary payment on the basis of an executive order. Welcoming the promulgation of the ordinance as requested by the government, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said the salary disbursement of government employees would start on May 4. “Priority would be given to the salary disbursal of healthcare workers and police personnel. The approval to employees who fall under various other categories would follow,” Isaac said. The ordinance gives government the right to set aside up to 25% of the salary of government employees, teachers and others employed in institutions that receive government grant. The government, however, now plans to set aside only 20% of the salary, by deferring six days’ payment from the monthly wages for five months. Isaac repeated that the government was bound to return the money set aside from the salary of employees. “If the economic condition improves significantly in the coming months, the amount would soon be given back in cash or by merging the same in provident fund. The deferred payment would be kept in a separate account in government treasury and the same would be transferred to CMDRF. A total of Rs 2,500 crore would be thus transferred to CMDRF over the next five months,” he said. The governor has also given approval to the ordinance that allows the government to deduct 30% of salary/honorarium of people’s representatives including ministers, MLAs and elected members of local bodies. Meanwhile, employees’ organizations owing allegiance to UDF and BJP are planning to challenge the ordinance in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guv-promulgates-ordinance-on-salary-as-per-govt-request/articleshow/75478236.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Keep affected areas, not entire city in containment zone’||Chandigarh: In view of suggestions pouring in from various quarters to remove the tag of containment zone from the entire UT and keep it only for the affected areas, the Chandigarh administration is likely to take a call in this regard after May 3 when the second spell of lockdown ends.The suggestions were made to a panel of officers, constituted for the purpose by Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore, to know the viewpoint of city’s stakeholders. Thursday was the last day for the committee led by finance secretary A K Sinha to take suggestions.Since a large number of industries and businesses, especially hotels and restaurants, have suffered huge losses during the lockdown period, the UT administration is likely to take a decision considering the latest situation and the guidelines of the central government.Besides removal of the containment zone tag from the city, the stakeholders are also in the favour of opening shops for limited period while following all safety norms. They have sought restricted operations of industries, resumption of construction activities, movement of vehicles based on odd-even system, and opening of liquor vends, eateries and restaurants for takeaways.Several political parties, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh (Foswac), Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, hotel and restaurant association and a large number of prominent citizens have submitted their viewpoints to the UT. Now, this will be discussed by the senior officers of the UT and finally with the UT administrator to take a final call.However, sources in the UT administration revealed that during an initial discussion on the possibility of opening both government and private offices, it was felt that allowing opening of such establishments now could lead to huge gatherings.“We will first consider allowing opening of offices, and if urgently required, some offices may be permitted to open with minimum staff. But largely, there is no plan to open the offices yet,” said an official.BOXWhat stakeholders wantA: Chamber of Chandigarh Industries1: Industries should be opened post May 3 for resumption of economic activity2: Industrial units with availability of input supplies, manpower and output supplies may be allowed to resume operation3: In line with the MHA guidelines, the administration should take care of sanitisation of respective premises and employers should take care of adherence to safety norms by employees4: Allied activities supporting industry, like raw material suppliers, logistics, mill stores/hardware shops, should also be allowed5. Covid-19 affected areas be properly secured/ guarded to prevent movement of likely carona carriers into the industryB: Chandigarh Beopar Mandal1: Entire city should not be kept in containment zone2: Only affected areas or hotspot should be declared containment zone3: All types of shops be allowed to open for limited period4: Keep malls, multiplex, gyms, schools, colleges and other places of large gathering closed5: Doctors clinics and optical shops to be openedC: Foswac’s suggestions1: Residents be allowed to go for morning walk with all safety precautions in their areas only for limited period2: Local markets be allowed to open from 10am to 5pm3: Food delivery be allowed and liquor shops should be opened for limited duration4: Do give any relaxation in hotspot areas5: No maid/home helpers be allowedD: Hotel and restaurant association1: Hotel rooms be allowed with all precautions2: Restaurants be allowed to operate for home delivery only3: Parties, gatherings should not be allowed4: Special consideration be given to hotel industryE: Chandigarh Congress1: Divide entire city into Red, Orange and Green zones, and give relaxations accordingly2: All city borders should be sealed and entry/exit monitored3: All stakeholders, including political parties and ex-MPs and ex-mayors, be consulted while taking major decisions4: Weekly meetings of Chandigarh Health Advisory Committee should be convened to keep tab on the prevailing situation and plan further strategy5: An incentive or hike in salary be announced for doctors, nurses, housekeeping/ ward staff, police personnel and Safai Karamcharis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/keep-affected-areas-not-entire-city-in-containment-zone/articleshow/75480489.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 1, 2020||Agra||Aligarh Muslim University advises students to return home||AGRA: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) administration has advised its students, who are stuck in the campus due to lockdown, to take advantage of the proposed relaxation facility announced by the government and return to their hometowns in view of rising cases of Covid-19 in the district. In a notice, AMU registrar Abdul Hamid stated that as per the circular of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the students are allowed to go back to their hometown. “As no classes, examination or entrance tests are scheduled for May and June, the students should avail this facility as same may not be given in future depending on the situation,” the notice read. Talking to TOI, Hamid said that initially, students from within Uttar Pradesh can return home on May 1 and May 2. This would be followed by other states including Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand etc. “Travel arrangements for students residing in UP have been made by the district administration. Students may contact their respective provost, and dean, student welfare and proctor for any clarification in this regard,” he said. He further said, “The process of transportation of students will start from Friday (May 1) and buses will be made available at the proctor’s office.” He added that no one is forced to leave the campus but those willing to return can avail this opportunity. As of now, 4,000 students are residing in the campus and of these around 1,800 are from UP. According to the AMU administration, they will maintain social distancing norms and will send students in the buses accordingly. One of the students from Ghazipur, Mohd Afzal said that he is very happy. “It is nice that I will be back home as there is no activity happening in the campus and cases in the city are rising day by day.” Meanwhile, three more persons tested positive in Aligarh on Thursday taking the tally to 36 including one death in the district. Family members of all infected persons have been quarantined, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-advises-students-to-return-home/articleshow/75479549.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Alert sounded across tiger reserves in U’khand, UP after intelligence points at movement of notorious poaching gang members towards forests||Dehradun: The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau has alerted the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh forest departments to stay on high alert to avert poaching cases amidst the ongoing lockdown as a few members of the notorious Bawariya poachers' gang have gone missing from their settlements and are suspected to have moved towards the forests for poaching activities. “This alert is currently for Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) in Uttarakhand as well as Pilibhit and Dudhwa Tiger Reserves in UP. We anticipate that these gang members might have reached around Bijnor or Najibabad area. We are conducting combing operations in these areas to track them along with the Uttar Pradesh forest department,” said director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, Rahul (who goes by his first name only). Sources told TOI that intelligence teams had spotted members of the Bawariya tribe — who specialise in traditional techniques of poaching and are professional tiger hunters — in areas around Panipat and Pinjore in Haryana as well as some locations in Punjab when the lockdown began on March 24. However, recently, alerts were received regarding their absence from these areas. “It is being anticipated by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau that in the absence of income following the lockdown, the gang members will be targeting wildlife for quick money,” said an official of the state forest department who is actively working with tiger reserves to control wildlife crime. He added that a major problem being faced by the department is that intelligence gathering has taken a hit during the lockdown. “Since movement is restricted, our teams cannot meet informers (who are also members of these tribes) freely.” Another challenge being faced by them, say forest officials, is “rampant usage of forest by people following the lockdown.” “Migrant labourers for instance are using forest areas to walk to their villages. Poachers may pose as migrants thereby making it difficult for us to identify them. Also, we have to work while following Covid-19 guidelines and cannot get too close to them since social distancing norms have to be observed. Keeping in mind these challenges, we are highly vigilant these days,” said Amit Verma, director, Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Meanwhile, forest department officials have also been making announcements in and around CTR and RTR warning the Van Gujjar nomadic tribe that inhabits the forests in these areas of ‘stern action’ if they fail to report arrival of any new guest or relatives at their dera (habitation). Officials claimed that this was being done in order to protect wildlife from the novel coronavirus threat so that intimation of any new arrival (who might be infected) can be made to the health department. “The announcements are being done along with distribution of ration and items like hand sanitisers, face masks, gloves etc,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/alert-sounded-across-tiger-reserves-in-ukhand-up-after-intelligence-points-at-movement-of-notorious-poaching-gang-members-towards-forests/articleshow/75479542.cms||Shivani Azad
May 1, 2020||World||Trump confident that coronavirus may have originated in Chinese lab||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said on Thursday he was confident the coronavirus may have originated in a Chinese virology lab, but declined to describe the evidence, ratcheting up tensions with Beijing over the origins of the deadly disease. Trump did not mince words at a White House event on Thursday, when asked if he had seen evidence that gave him a "high degree of confidence" the virus came from the Wuhan Institute of Virology. "Yes, yes I have," he said, declining to give specifics. "I can't tell you that. I'm not allowed to tell you that." Read AlsoTrump: US may seek damages from China over coronavirus"We are not happy with China," Trump said at a White House briefing. "We are not happy with that whole situation because we believe it could have been stopped at the source. He suggested that the US may seek damages from China.The Chinese state-backed Wuhan Institute of Virology has dismissed the allegations, and other U.S. officials have downplayed their likelihood. Most experts believe the virus originated in a market selling wildlife in Wuhan and jumped from animals to people. The Republican president has shown increasing frustration with China in recent weeks over the pandemic, which has cost tens of thousands of lives in the United States alone, sparked an economic contraction and threatened his chances of re-election in November. Trump said previously his administration was trying to determine whether the coronavirus emanated from the Wuhan lab, following media reports it may have been artificially synthesized at a China state-backed laboratory or perhaps escaped from such a facility. The coronavirus outbreak has contributed to a deepening rift between the Trump administration and China, with Beijing suggesting the US military might have brought the coronavirus to China and Trump saying China failed to alert the world to coronavirus risks in a timely and transparent fashion. Trump also said on Thursday it was possible that China either could not stop the spread of the coronavirus or let it spread. He declined to say whether he held Chinese President Xi Jinping responsible for what he feels is misinformation about the emergence of the coronavirus. Trump said of China's efforts to get to the bottom of how the virus emerged: "At least they seem to be trying to be somewhat transparent with us." "But we're going to find out. You'll be learning in the not-too-distant future. But it's a terrible thing that happened - whether they made a mistake or whether it started off as a mistake and then they made another one. Or did somebody do something on purpose?" he said. Trump told Reuters in an interview on Wednesday that he was looking at different options in terms of consequences for Beijing over the virus. "I can do a lot," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-confident-that-coronavirus-may-have-originated-in-chinese-lab/articleshow/75482537.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: 11 people test negative in Krishnagiri||SALEM: A total of 11 people, who were in home quarantine in Krishnagiri district, tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday evening. Nine of them were family members of the doctor who tested positive for the virus after visiting his family in the Krishnagiri town last week from his workplace at Villupuram government hospital. However, health officials said that the nine would be tested once again. Meanwhile, in Salem, a Covid-19 patient got discharged from the government hospital on Thursday after he tested negative twice. Health officials have advised him to be at home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/11-people-test-negative-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/75480510.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Dept of personnel issues order||Taking strong objection to many junior officers going to the Secretariat building unnecessarily without official directions to report to office, department of personnel on Thursday issued an order asking department heads to e-mail names of officials being called to office to senior security officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dept-of-personnel-issues-order/articleshow/75481375.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Coimbatore||After a lull, Covid-19 puts a few dists on the back foot with new +ve cases||Coimbatore: Health authorities in Salem were hoping that the district would soon join neighbouring Erode and Nilgiris that reported zero Covid-19 cases for the past couple of days. However, much to their disappointment, a person from Salem tested positive for the virus after a gap of five days on Thursday . It’s not Just Salem that has reported fresh case of Covid-19 after a lull. Madurai which did not have any positive cases for two consecutive days, reported five new cases on Thursday. Similar is the case of Ramanathapuram, where three people tested positive after a gap of three days. So were Perambalur and Ariyalur districts which had two and one Covid positive cases respectively when they were showing signs of hope without cases for consecutive days. The Salem patient is an employee of a sub-court in Mettur. “He is from Kottagoundampatty village near Omalur. We have traced his source of infection to a woman patient from Suramangalam,’’ R Balajinathan, dean of the Salem government Mohan Kumarmangalam medical college and hospital (SGMKMCH). He also said that the woman was tested positive at Kerala border when she was heading to Kerala as part of her work, a few days ago. Health officials have sealed the street in which the patient was residing and sprayed disinfectants in the entire locality. There was slight disappointment among health officials, particularly in places like Madurai because of the unexpected spike in cases when they were hoping to flatten the curve. Nevertheless, they say it’s not alarming. Among the five positive cases in Madurai, for instance, two were frontline workers and one was from a containment zone, officials point out. Among those who tested positive is a 26-year-old man, a native of Tuticorin, who is serving in the disaster management team. He had been working in Chennai and was deployed to Madurai. Another Covid positive patient, a 42-year-old woman, was a health worker working at the Government Rajaji Hospital. In Ramanathapuram, all the three who tested positive were frontline workers - a 30-year-old traffic police constable, a 29-year-old fireman and a 33-year-old domestic breeding checker. The southern district reported the last Covid case on April 26. “The police station and fire station have been closed following the test results. The traffic police station is now functioning just outside the station building as a temporary measure. We are screening all the personnel in the police station and fire station,’’ said a health official. Health authorities said the number of people testing positive would drop in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/after-a-lull-covid-19-puts-a-few-dists-on-the-back-foot-with-new-ve-cases/articleshow/75480504.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 15k migrant workers to be sent home in 1st phase||Visakhapatnam: With the minitry of home affairs allowing the movement of migrant labourers, the state government has started chalking out plans to send migrant labourers back home. In the first phase, around 15,000 to 20,000 of them from Vizag will be sent home to other districts as well as states. Speaking to TOI, joint collector Venugopal Reddy said that most of the migrant labourers are from the construction sector. “A few labourers belonging to other districts and states were put in temporary quarantine homes when they tried to reach their native villages by road. Most of them have completed their quarantine period and have no symptoms of coronavirus,” he added. “Before sending them home, we will screen all the migrant labourers once again and also inform the authorities of concerned districts and states so that they also do the same when they reach,” Reddy said. As many as 196 labourers from Odisha, 10 each from Telangana and Jharkhand, 18 from Bihar, 16 from West Bengal, and 9 from Tamil Nadu are housed in the temporary quarantine homes across the district. There are also 282 workers from Srikakulam and 166 from Vizianagaram. Out of the 672 migrant labourers staying in the GVMC shelter homes, 336 are from UP, 44 from West Bengal, 84 from Odisha, 74 from Jharkhand, and 46 are from Bihar, GVMC shelter homes in-charge Y Srinivasa Rao told TOI. There are many more labourers who are staying at the project sites and the district administration has been providing them with ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-15k-migrant-workers-to-be-sent-home-in-1st-phase/articleshow/75479572.cms||Siva G
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress MLA bats for liquor shops, says booze can kill virus||KOTA: Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh Kundanpur on Thursday shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressing concern on rise in manufacturing and sale of illegal countrymade liquor and urged him to grant permission to open liquor shops in the state. In the letter, the MLA said closure of liquor shops had broken the backbone of state’s economy and it had led to the sale and manufacture of illegal countrymade liquor. “When alcohol can remove Covid-19 virus with handwash, it is sure to remove the virus from a booze guzzler’s throat,” Singh argued and demanded the state government to grant permission to open liquor shops. Since the demand for liquor amid lockdown is higher in the markets, as booze lovers welcome it, the illegal manufacturing and sale of country made liquor is not only causing heavy loss to state’s revenue, but also harm to booze guzzlers’ health, he added. The MLA also referred to the incident of Halena village in Bharatpur where two persons lost their eyesight and died after consuming country made liquor and to the state government’s decision to increase excise duty on liquor in order to make up for the revenue loss during lockdown. The target of generating revenue of Rs 12,500 crore from sale of liquor in the year 2020-2021 seems impossible due to the lockdown, he said, and recommended it is better to allow opening liquor shops so that the state government can generate revenue. Notably, another MLA from Bhadara area of Hanumangarh district Balwan Singh Punia, wrote a letter to Gehlot urging him to grant permission to open liquor shops in the state amid lockdown. Watch Covid-19: Congress MLA bats for liquor shops, says booze can kill virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-bats-for-liquor-shops-says-booze-can-kill-virus/articleshow/75481370.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Mumbai||He himself tied a rakhi on behalf of my wife||It’s a sad day today. I’ve lost a very dear friend. When someone messaged me this morning asking me if the news was true, I was sure that it wasn’t because I had spoken to Neetu just the night before. I tried calling Randhir but his phone was busy for a long time which gave me a sense that something was wrong. I didn’t have the heart to call Neetu so I eventually spoke to Ranbir and he confirmed the news. I broke down over the phone and instead of me consoling him, he consoled me. I had dinner with him on March 18, just a few days before the lockdown. We had both suffered from cancer around the same time — he was diagnosed in August and I in December. But we both remained very positive. He was quite vibrant when I met him last. He spoke about having gone to Delhi the previous month and how the pollution there had probably caused a relapse but he insisted that he was fine. I asked him not to worry and that it was a disease that he would need to give time to. I asked him to relax at home, not think of work and bounce back. Barely two weeks later he was hospitalised. We go back a long way—we got very close during the making of Khel Khel Mein (1975). Our nature was very similar. We were both outgoing, loved food and loved to enjoy life in the same ways. We went on so many holidays abroad together as couples—he, Neetu and their children (Riddhima and Ranbir) and me with my wife (Pinky Roshan) and kids (Hrithik and Sunaina). We did many films together as co-actors and later, he made a special appearance on a song in my first directorial venture and readily agreed to feature in Aap Ke Deewane, the first film I produced. As an actor, his strength was his spontaneity. During a retake, most actors will try and improve their lines while he would do something instinctive and completely different, which could be challenging for a co-actor but would amaze me as a director. It’s too early for me to even think of all my memories with him but the best thing about our friendship is that we knew each other’s faults and accepted them. That’s probably why our friendship endured for so many years. If he ever told me something that I may not want to hear, I’d never take it to heart. Because he is ‘Rishi Kapoor’ and he says things in a way that no one can. What he was inside, he showed it on the outside. He was very frank but never cunning or manipulative. I’m that way too and both of us called black black, and white white. He was a rakhi brother to my wife and when he was in New York for his treatment, he called to tell us that he had tied a rakhi on his own hand, on her behalf. That’s how sensitive he really was. (As told to Mohua Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/he-himself-tied-a-rakhi-on-behalf-of-my-wife/articleshow/75479634.cms||Rakesh Roshan
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||More than 500 sent to MP from shelter homes in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Around 517 migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh were sent to their home state from the shelter homes in Jaipur on roadways buses. Of the total, 161 were sent from nine shelter homes in Jaipur sub-division. On Thursday night, 67 migrant workers were sent to Madhya Pradesh, said Aamer SDM Laxmikant Katara. Meanwhile, 70 students studying in Sanganer sub-division were sent to their home districts in Barmer and Chittorgarh on Wednesday. About 17 more were sent from Sanganer and Aamer on Thursday night. “These 450 migrant workers were sent to Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday on 20-22 roadways buses. Now, there are around 1,100 migrant workers left in the shelter homes in the district. Some even used personal vehicles to leave for their homes in the state,” said additional district magistrate-IV Ashok Kumar. He also said the registration of migrant workers, who are willing to leave for their states, is still going on in RIICO and other industrial areas. “They will be divided into groups only after the database comes. Only after that they will be sent to their respective states,” he added. “The roadways buses from Jaipur were sent to Jhalawar, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur and Chittorgarh borders. From Jaipur sub-division, 161 migrant workers were sent to Madhya Pradesh. We still have 500 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh in the shelter homes. In all, there would be around 550 people,” said Jaipur block sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Yugantar Sharma. Sanganer SDM Ghanshyam Sharma said 51 migrant labourers were sent to Madhya Pradesh from the shelter home in Sanganer. “On Wednesday, around 70 students were sent to their homes in Barmer and Chittorgarh.” Earlier, 581 students, who were studying in several coaching centres and other institutes in Jaipur, were sent to their home districts by roadways buses on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-than-500-sent-to-mp-from-shelter-homes-in-city/articleshow/75481382.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ajmer||11 lakh engaged in MNREGA work, Rajasthan 2nd in country||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said about 11 lakh MGNREGA workers were engaged under the scheme in Rajasthan on Thursday, making the state second in the country in providing employment to workers. “Looking at the current situation during the lockdown, there are lesser employment opportunities and the economy has collapsed. To revive this economy, NREGA is a source through which people living in rural areas can be provided financial help. We are pleased to say that the number of workers under MGNREGA has gone up to 11 lakh from 60,000 in the past 10 days,” Pilot said. “Around 80% work is being done in the rural areas. Independent works are being done by people. They are working in the fields and at their homes. They are getting paid and are working while maintaining social distance. People living in the rural areas are getting a lot of work and strength through MGNREGA,” he added. Meanwhile, state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said the growth in the number of workers in the past 10 days has been phenomenal. “However, under any normal circumstance, the number of workers working on the ground on any given day would be around 25 to 30 lakh. In April, it should have been at least 20 lakh. I am hopeful that in the first week of May, the number of workers will increase to 25 lakh,” he added. Pilot on Sunday wrote to the Union rural development and panchayati raj minister Narendra Singh Tomar and demanded that during the lockdown period 1.13 crore MGNREGA workers in the state should be paid full wages up to at least 100 days and the number of working days must be increased to 200 days. “In order to provide financial support to the workers in the year 2020-21, 100 days of employment fixed under MGNREGA should be increased to 200 days per family,” Pilot added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/11-lakh-engaged-in-nrega-work-state-2nd-in-country/articleshow/75483132.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||4 more test positive in Latur, Hingoli gets 5 new cases||Aurangabad: With four new cases, the Coviod-19 patient count in Latur district has touched 16. Hingoli district’s tally also rose to 21 after five more patients tested positive for coronavirus. On April 25, a 70-year-old Covid-19 patient with co-morbidities had died at the government hospital in Udgir. Though the health authorities have been unable to trace the source of her infection, the mapping of her family members and other high-risk contacts had started soon after her death. Subsequently, three persons from her family were confirmed with Covid-19 on April 27. More swabs of the high-risk contacts were tested at the Virus Research Diagnosis Laboratory at the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Institute of Medical Sciences. Of those, reports of four persons confirmed their positive status on Wednesday. All four are residents of Udgir. The total Covid-19 tally in the district has reached 16, including one death and eight recoveries. Those who have recovered are natives of Andhra Pradesh. Currently, seven people are under treatment at the sub-district hospital Udgir. In Hingoli, 1 one Hingoli SRPF jawan, who was earlier posted in at Mumbai, and three Hingoli SRPF jawans, who were posted at Malegaon, tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. Also, the 4-year-old nephew of a Covid-19 infected Jalna SRPF jawan, a 21-year-old man from Vasmat and another man who came in contact with Jalna jawan have been diagnosed with the coronavirus over Wednesday and Thursday. Overall, in Hingoli and Jalna, 16 SRPF jawans have tested positive. Total Covid-19 tally is Hingoli district has reached 21 and 20 of the cases are admitted to district civil hospital. One has been referred to GMCH, Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-more-test-positive-in-latur-hingoli-gets-5-new-cases/articleshow/75479346.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Assembly joint secy gets 1-yr term as secy||Vijayawada: In a swift move, a day before his retirement, the state government promoted assembly joint secretary P Balakrishnamacharyulu as secretary. Balakrishnamacharyulu has been in-charge secretary since YSRC came to power after 2019 elections. As he was retiring on April 30, the government re-appointed him as secretary for one year from May 1, 2020. He would be paid the last drawn salary in his capacity as secretary, excluding the PF contribution. A joint secretary holding in-charge secretary position, Balakrishnamacharyulu was a helping hand to minister for legislative affairs Buggana Rajendranath, speaker Thammineni Sitaram and government whips during the last one year in office, when the new government held two sessions – one for the vote on account budget and the other for the passing of important bills. Balakrishnamacharyulu turned great advantage to the ruling party when legislative council chairman MA Shariff referred two crucial bills to the select committee as demanded by TDP against the will of YSRC. Taking advantage of the procedural lapses in the select committee announcement, Balakrishnamacharyulu refused to constitute the committee and refer the bills to it as desired by the chairman and the opposition. The assembly passed the AP CRDA Repeal Bill, 2020, and the AP Decentralisation of Administration Bill, 2020, despite TDP’s opposition. Having got through the assembly where YSRC has majority, the ruling party pinned hopes on the procedures in its favour in the legislative council, where TDP has majority. As expected, the chairman referred the two bills to the select committee. The fate of the two bills, thus hang in balance, giving some relief to the ruling party. The row had led to the assembly passing a resolution seeking abolition of the legislative council. The issue is now pending before Parliament for its clearance. Balakrishnamacharyulu has been in-charge secretary since YSRC came to power after 2019 elections. He was a helping hand to minister Buggana Rajendranath||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/assembly-joint-secy-gets-1-yr-term-as-secy/articleshow/75479600.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jodhpur||11 lakh engaged in MNREGA work, Rajasthan 2nd in country||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said about 11 lakh MGNREGA workers were engaged under the scheme in Rajasthan on Thursday, making the state second in the country in providing employment to workers. “Looking at the current situation during the lockdown, there are lesser employment opportunities and the economy has collapsed. To revive this economy, NREGA is a source through which people living in rural areas can be provided financial help. We are pleased to say that the number of workers under MGNREGA has gone up to 11 lakh from 60,000 in the past 10 days,” Pilot said. “Around 80% work is being done in the rural areas. Independent works are being done by people. They are working in the fields and at their homes. They are getting paid and are working while maintaining social distance. People living in the rural areas are getting a lot of work and strength through MGNREGA,” he added. Meanwhile, state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said the growth in the number of workers in the past 10 days has been phenomenal. “However, under any normal circumstance, the number of workers working on the ground on any given day would be around 25 to 30 lakh. In April, it should have been at least 20 lakh. I am hopeful that in the first week of May, the number of workers will increase to 25 lakh,” he added. Pilot on Sunday wrote to the Union rural development and panchayati raj minister Narendra Singh Tomar and demanded that during the lockdown period 1.13 crore MGNREGA workers in the state should be paid full wages up to at least 100 days and the number of working days must be increased to 200 days. “In order to provide financial support to the workers in the year 2020-21, 100 days of employment fixed under MGNREGA should be increased to 200 days per family,” Pilot added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/11-lakh-engaged-in-nrega-work-state-2nd-in-country/articleshow/75483130.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||11 lakh engaged in MNREGA work, Rajasthan 2nd in country||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said about 11 lakh MGNREGA workers were engaged under the scheme in Rajasthan on Thursday, making the state second in the country in providing employment to workers. “Looking at the current situation during the lockdown, there are lesser employment opportunities and the economy has collapsed. To revive this economy, NREGA is a source through which people living in rural areas can be provided financial help. We are pleased to say that the number of workers under MGNREGA has gone up to 11 lakh from 60,000 in the past 10 days,” Pilot said. “Around 80% work is being done in the rural areas. Independent works are being done by people. They are working in the fields and at their homes. They are getting paid and are working while maintaining social distance. People living in the rural areas are getting a lot of work and strength through MGNREGA,” he added. Meanwhile, state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said the growth in the number of workers in the past 10 days has been phenomenal. “However, under any normal circumstance, the number of workers working on the ground on any given day would be around 25 to 30 lakh. In April, it should have been at least 20 lakh. I am hopeful that in the first week of May, the number of workers will increase to 25 lakh,” he added. Pilot on Sunday wrote to the Union rural development and panchayati raj minister Narendra Singh Tomar and demanded that during the lockdown period 1.13 crore MGNREGA workers in the state should be paid full wages up to at least 100 days and the number of working days must be increased to 200 days. “In order to provide financial support to the workers in the year 2020-21, 100 days of employment fixed under MGNREGA should be increased to 200 days per family,” Pilot added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-lakh-engaged-in-nrega-work-state-2nd-in-country/articleshow/75481393.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Udaipur||11 lakh engaged in MNREGA work, Rajasthan 2nd in country||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said about 11 lakh MGNREGA workers were engaged under the scheme in Rajasthan on Thursday, making the state second in the country in providing employment to workers. “Looking at the current situation during the lockdown, there are lesser employment opportunities and the economy has collapsed. To revive this economy, NREGA is a source through which people living in rural areas can be provided financial help. We are pleased to say that the number of workers under MGNREGA has gone up to 11 lakh from 60,000 in the past 10 days,” Pilot said. “Around 80% work is being done in the rural areas. Independent works are being done by people. They are working in the fields and at their homes. They are getting paid and are working while maintaining social distance. People living in the rural areas are getting a lot of work and strength through MGNREGA,” he added. Meanwhile, state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said the growth in the number of workers in the past 10 days has been phenomenal. “However, under any normal circumstance, the number of workers working on the ground on any given day would be around 25 to 30 lakh. In April, it should have been at least 20 lakh. I am hopeful that in the first week of May, the number of workers will increase to 25 lakh,” he added. Pilot on Sunday wrote to the Union rural development and panchayati raj minister Narendra Singh Tomar and demanded that during the lockdown period 1.13 crore MGNREGA workers in the state should be paid full wages up to at least 100 days and the number of working days must be increased to 200 days. “In order to provide financial support to the workers in the year 2020-21, 100 days of employment fixed under MGNREGA should be increased to 200 days per family,” Pilot added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/11-lakh-engaged-in-nrega-work-state-2nd-in-country/articleshow/75483129.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||2 bizmen feed more than 2.33 lakh people in 15 days||Visakhapatnam: Two businessmen, Symbiosis Technologies CEO O Naresh Kumar and owner of Jyothi Shipping Agencies Kasi Viswanatha Raju, have fed more than 2.33 lakh people in the past 15 days in Visakhapatnam city. They began by distributing food to 2,000 people, which has now risen to 17,000 people a day. They started the endeavour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted earlier in April asking people to help the needy. The food is prepared and packed at Shirdi Sai temple in East Point Colony with the help of volunteers, including from the Art of Living. They began on April 14 when they packed food for 2,000 people. The number rose to 9,000 the very next day. They supply food from 4 am to 10 am, said a volunteer. Speaking to TOI, Kumar and Raju said, “We initially planned to distribute food among the poor on the roads, but the GVMC requested us to provide food for their sanitation workers of all six zones in the city limits, that includes more than 5,000 people. The urban community development (UCD) department requested us to provide food for people in temporary shelter homes. Later, we were requested by the police department, medical staff, and others,” they said. Besides, they have distributed 2,000 grooming kits among those staying in GVMC shelters; 100 tube lights and 80 ceiling fans to the central prison and thousands of masks, sanitisers and medicines to KGH, LV Prasad hospital and GVMC staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-bizmen-feed-more-than-2-33-lakh-people-in-15-days/articleshow/75479589.cms||Siva G
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad 2nd in Covid-19 testing after Mumbai: Civic data||AURANGABAD: If the Covid-19 analysis report prepared by the civic administration is to be believed, the city is only second to Mumbai in per million Covid-19 testing. Authorities said that the rise in the number of cases was a result of increased testing. As per the data shared by municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, there was a surge in the number of new cases emerging from Aurangabad from April 27. Between March 13 and April 26, the daily average of positive cases was two. However, 42 Covid-19 positive cases were detected on April 27. 24, 10 and 47 cases were detected on April 28, 29 and 30 respectively. Pandey shared a graph that compared the positive cases with the tested samples. The graph analysing Covid-19 data of the city from March 15 to April 30 shows a direct relation between testing and positive cases. The lab reports received from GMCH of Covid-19 testing had risen by upto 900 a day on April 27. Pandey said that Aurangabad was followingg the ‘trace, test and isolate’ model adopted in Worli. AMC’s move has been appreciated by Worli MLA and cabinet minister Aditya Thackeray, who said that aggressive testing would save more lives. According to Pushkal Shivam, a member of AMC’s Covid-19 task force, Aurangabad is testing 2,479.49 patients for each 10 lakh population. “If testing done on per million population is studied, Aurangabad is only second to Mumbai which is testing 3,779 people for each 10 lakh population. It is ahead of Delhi which is testing 2,147 people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-2nd-in-testing-after-mumbai-civic-data/articleshow/75479599.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||State shows KMC chief the door, appoints DK Balaji||Tirupati: As the number of people who tested positive for Covid-19 continues to rise in Kurnool district, the state government on Thursday appointed an DK Balaji as the new commissioner of the Kurnool municipal corporation. The state government, led by YS Jaganmohan Reddy, which was reportedly unhappy with the performance of the present municipal commissioner S Ravindra Babu, showed him the door and appointed Balaji, who is currently the project officer at the integrated tribal development authority (ITDA) at Paderu, Visakhapatnam district. The appointment of an IAS rank official to take charge of the civic body comes at a time when the results of more than 1,000 Covid samples are yet to be declared by the Kurnool district administration. On Thursday, 71 people tested positive for coronavirus. Of these, 43 were from Kurnool district alone, the highest number from a single district in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-shows-kmc-chief-the-door-appoints-dk-balaji/articleshow/75479611.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 1, 2020||Udaipur||Dungarpur family cremates effigy of Covid patient who died in Kuwait||UDAIPUR: Among many heart piercing incidents being reported from across the country during lockdown, family members of a 56-year-old businessman in south Rajasthan, who died in Kuwait due to coronavirus recently, held a symbolic cremation. Dileep Kalal, a hotelier from Simalwada town of Dungarpur district, had been working in Kuwait for the past 15 years. He died on Monday after being treated in a hospital for a fortnight in the Gulf nation. Due to the lockdown, his body could not be flown back to India and so his nephew and a few hotel staff buried him in Kuwait. A video of the burial rites was sent to the family. Back home, Dileep’s wife, children and family members were heart broken after knowing about his demise. More painful to them was that the funeral could not be held according to Hindu customs and that his soul would not be in peace. Elders in the family then suggested to hold a symbolic funeral. Dileep's effigy was made using his clothes and his photograph was kept in place of the head. A turban too was tied as per the rituals and the final procession was taken out in a pickup van where 8-10 family members including his son Roshan, brothers Rajesh, Naresh and Prakash took part to perform the rites. The dummy was taken to the cremation ground on Sakarsi Road where the rituals were held properly. The family members said they did not feel for a moment that they were doing an artificial act. “We could not be by his side when he breathed his last. Atleast now after following the rituals properly, we have some relief that his soul would be at peace. The ashes and remains would be immersed in holy waters and so all the other mourning rituals would be performed for our emotional satisfaction,” a close relative said. Dileep is learnt to have had last visited Dungarpur six months ago. He is survived by wife, son and a daughter, both married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dungarpur-family-cremates-effigy-of-covid-patient-who-died-in-kuwait/articleshow/75483884.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Mother, uncle held for ‘honour killing’ of 16-yr-old Pali girl||JODHPUR: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly strangulated, burnt and buried in a village in Pali by her mother and uncle in a suspected case of honour killing, police said on Thursday. The charred body of the girl was exhumed and sent for post-mortem, while the accused mother Sita Devi and uncle Sawaram were arrested. “The incident took place on March 19 but came to light after more than a month following a tip-off from a police informer,” said superintendent of police (Pali) Rahul Kotoki. According to the officer, families of brothers Shesharam and Sawaram from village Sonai Majhi in Pali had shifted to Pune long back where they owned a grocery shop. “Victim Rinku was the daughter of Shesharam and in a relationship with a local boy in Pune with whom she had eloped about two months ago. However, Rinku's family lodged a police complaint accusing the boy of kidnapping the girl following which the Mumbai Police held the couple at Dadar railway station. The man was arrested but the girl, being a minor, was handed over to the family,” he said. “A month later when the man got out on bail, Rinku insisted on marrying him but her family members refused and instead took her to their village in Rajasthan on March 18 on the pretext of visiting a local deity,” said the officer. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mother-uncle-held-for-honour-killing-of-16-yr-old-pali-girl/articleshow/75481411.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam’s lecturer couple spends month’s salary to feed 1,300 families||VISAKHAPATNAM: While on the one hand there is no dearth of dour news nowadays, on the other hand, the lockdown seem to be have brought out the best in a few people. A case in point is a lecturer couple, who have spent their month’s salary, Rs 1.5 lakh, on distributing food among the needy in their home town. Economics lecturer Vepada Chiranjivi Rao and his wife Nivedita, a botany lecturer, work in Greater Visakhapatnam. They are helping around 1,300 families in their village Dondapudi with the help of local youth and volunteers. “My wife and I decided to spend our salary to help the needy and poor. We spent Rs 1.5 lakh on necessary commodities such as onions, vegetables, and eggs, besides soaps,” Chiranjeevi Rao told TOI. He further said that many donors and philanthropists are helping the people in Visakhapatnam city. But not many are helping those in the villages, like Dondapudi. “Both my wife and I decided to provide eggs, which will provide strength and boost immunity,” he said. Niveditha said serving her own village makes her feel happy as it is her duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/citys-lecturer-couple-spends-months-salary-to-feed-1300-families/articleshow/75479605.cms||Siva G
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VZM collector pushes for use of telemedicine||Visakhapatnam: The Vizianagaram district administration is pushing aggressively for the use of telemedicine services launched by the state government for those who need consultations for non-Covid related ailments. District collector M Hari Jawhar Lal has urged the people to make the most of the services as many people who are unwell may not find regular medical services easily. “I urge the public to make use of the 14410 missed call facility to avail themselves regular treatment and medicines. The state government has introduced this service to ensure that people who are ill do not suffer from lack of treatment,” Jawhar Lal said. People who give a missed call receive a call back from the medical control room to enquire about their ailment following which a doctor connects with the patient. The government has also arranged door delivery of medicines to ensure that the people do not have to step out of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-collector-pushes-for-use-of-telemedicine/articleshow/75479617.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Mother, uncle held for ‘honour killing’ of 16-yr-old Pali girl||JODHPUR: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly strangulated, burnt and buried in a village in Pali by her mother and uncle in a suspected case of honour killing, police said on Thursday. The charred body of the girl was exhumed and sent for post-mortem, while the accused mother Sita Devi and uncle Sawaram were arrested. “The incident took place on March 19 but came to light after more than a month following a tip-off from a police informer,” said superintendent of police (Pali) Rahul Kotoki. According to the officer, families of brothers Shesharam and Sawaram from village Sonai Majhi in Pali had shifted to Pune long back where they owned a grocery shop. “Victim Rinku was the daughter of Shesharam and in a relationship with a local boy in Pune with whom she had eloped about two months ago. However, Rinku's family lodged a police complaint accusing the boy of kidnapping the girl following which the Mumbai Police held the couple at Dadar railway station. The man was arrested but the girl, being a minor, was handed over to the family,” he said. “A month later when the man got out on bail, Rinku insisted on marrying him but her family members refused and instead took her to their village in Rajasthan on March 18 on the pretext of visiting a local deity,” said the officer. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mother-uncle-held-for-honour-killing-of-16-yr-old-pali-girl/articleshow/75482984.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Dungarpur family cremates effigy of Covid patient who died in Kuwait||UDAIPUR: Among many heart piercing incidents being reported from across the country during lockdown, family members of a 56-year-old businessman in south Rajasthan, who died in Kuwait due to coronavirus recently, held a symbolic cremation. Dileep Kalal, a hotelier from Simalwada town of Dungarpur district, had been working in Kuwait for the past 15 years. He died on Monday after being treated in a hospital for a fortnight in the Gulf nation. Due to the lockdown, his body could not be flown back to India and so his nephew and a few hotel staff buried him in Kuwait. A video of the burial rites was sent to the family. Back home, Dileep’s wife, children and family members were heart broken after knowing about his demise. More painful to them was that the funeral could not be held according to Hindu customs and that his soul would not be in peace. Elders in the family then suggested to hold a symbolic funeral. Dileep's effigy was made using his clothes and his photograph was kept in place of the head. A turban too was tied as per the rituals and the final procession was taken out in a pickup van where 8-10 family members including his son Roshan, brothers Rajesh, Naresh and Prakash took part to perform the rites. The dummy was taken to the cremation ground on Sakarsi Road where the rituals were held properly. The family members said they did not feel for a moment that they were doing an artificial act. “We could not be by his side when he breathed his last. Atleast now after following the rituals properly, we have some relief that his soul would be at peace. The ashes and remains would be immersed in holy waters and so all the other mourning rituals would be performed for our emotional satisfaction,” a close relative said. Dileep is learnt to have had last visited Dungarpur six months ago. He is survived by wife, son and a daughter, both married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-family-cremates-effigy-of-covid-patient-who-died-in-kuwait/articleshow/75481400.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Citizens refuse screening even in presence of cops||Aurangabad: An inspection of the ground reality carried out by TOI has found that citizens are not cooperating with the health teams deputed by the civic administration for door-to-door screening in the high-risk areas even if they are accompanied by police. As part of the cluster containment plan laid out by the state government, soon after a person from a particular locality tests positive for Covid-19, he/she is taken to the nodal Covid hospital and health teams of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) start conducting door-to-door screenings. The teams check whether any person is showing symptoms associated with Covid-19, has come in contact with the infected person or has a travel history. However, a ground check by the TOI found that residents refused to open the door for the health workers who were designated screening duty in the Paithan Gate area, from where confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday. Infact, the police personnel accompanying the health teams did not push the residents to cooperate. Municipal officer for health Nita Padalkar admitted that health teams were facing resistance especially while conducting door-to-door screening in the high risk areas. “There is a fear among people that if they are found with symptoms, they would be taken to the hospital and kept with the positive cases. In order to make them feel comfortable, AMC has started throat swab collection from the high-risk contacts at their respective localities instead of taking them to hospital,” Padalkar said. She added that a doctors association from the minority community accompanied the health teams for screening and throat swab collection in high-risk areas. Notably, divisonal commissioner Sunil Kendrekar had held a meeting with religious and community leaders on Tuesday and sought their cooperation in appealing to the citizens in cooperating with the health machinery. In a report titled ‘Some residents resist staff on Covid-19 screening duty’ published on April 3, the TOI had highlighted two incidents in the city in which health workers were prevented from conducting door-to-door screening. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court had taken suo moto cognizance of the report and filed a PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-refuse-screening-even-in-presence-of-cops/articleshow/75479608.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 1, 2020||Ajmer||Call of duty: Pregnancy no hurdle for this Rajasthan cop||AJMER: Seven-month pregnancy has never deterred this 26-year-old constable Santosh Jat to shy away from duty. Jat, who has voluntarily choosen to remain on duty, is currently deployed at Sarwar police station in Ajmer. “There are very few police personnel and a helping hand is always welcomed. Leave was an option and I was even offered but I want to work. I had even asked to be on road block duty. They gave me duty in the control room to ensure I don’t have to be out on the field,” says Santosh. A national-level gold medallist badminton player, Santosh is a native of Bikhraniya village at Degana in Nagaur and married to Chenaram Jat of Mewara. Chenaram is also a police constable, currently on duty in Udaipur. Santosh Jat is a national-level gold medallist badminton player“My father is an ex-serviceman and my husband is also a cop. We are a family of fighters and all of us are working to make our world a clean and safe place. I need to play my part in it to ensure my child comes into a safe world,” says Santosh. She joined the Rajasthan Police in 2013 and been in Sarwar for almost two years. Initially, her family members were not too happy about her decision, but now can’t help feeling proud of her. She talks to her family members every day and her husband frequently through the day. “Everyone in the Rajasthan Police, including my seniors, who are themselves on field duty through the day, is my inspiration. Everyone in my team is on a 12 to 15-hour duty. While they are out in the field in this hot weather, I take care of the control room, draft reports and send them to the headquarters. My job is much easier,” she adds. At the control room, she receives calls for help and complaints of non-compliance of lockdown, passing them on the concerned officials. Some days it gets really bad but Santosh always sits through her 12-hour duty. Santosh goes to the government hospital for a check-up daily and eats healthy food to stay fit. “I keep assuring my family that I am not alone. My colleagues and staff at the police station are my family. They take care of me and ensure I get adequate rest and eat properly. Every time they come from the field, they get me something to eat. They worry about me and most of them crack jokes and make me laugh to keep the mood light and positive,” she says. Everyone around her appreciates the work she is doing and have a great regard for her spirit. "Santosh is a dedicated cop and always keen to help. All of us keep complementing on the work she is doing despite her condition," said Ashutosh Pandey, SHO of Sarwar Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/call-of-duty-pregnancy-no-hurdle-for-this-cop/articleshow/75482974.cms||Kshitiz Gaur
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||More beds in West Bengal private facilities to treat Covid-19 patients||KOLKATA: With the number of corona cases increasing rapidly, some private hospitals have already scaled up the number of beds while some others are working on adding more Covid beds. Currently, majority of the private hospitals that are treating Covid patients are running out bed. Peerless Hospital had initially started with a makeshift isolation ward with seven beds. Now, it has converted an entire ward that earlier accommodated nearly 50 beds to a Covid ward with eight isolation beds and four CCU beds for patients who need intensive care. The hospital is now working another ward for Covid patients. Labours have been put up inside the hospital premises to create the ward. “We cannot covert a ward into a Covid ward overnight since these call for specifications like single rooms and negative pressure air conditioning. Even despite the lockdown, we could bring in labours. But we still need some materials. We are working on a war-footing. Let us see how many beds we will be able to carve out of this ward,” said Sudipta Mitra, spokesperson of Peerless Hospital. “We have already added six more beds to deal with an increasing number of patients coming with Covid symptoms,” said pulmonologist Raja Dhar, who is heading the Covid team at Fortis Hospital. The hospital started with eight beds. “Since addition to the isolation facilities also needs special infrastructure and AC systems, we have been working on the same despite the lockdown and difficulties in obtaining labour and civil materials. We are confident of fulfilling the needs of the state with the evolving situation, keeping in mind the safety of non-Covid patients,” said R Venkatesh, facility director at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha told reporters that Kolkata now has five Covid hospitals. Private hospitals said that many a times they are having to refer patients to Covid designated hospitals as all their isolation beds are occupied most of the time. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) had urged private hospitals to reserve 10% to 20% beds for Covid patients. “Private hospitals have assured that they will do their best and hence we are expecting them to reciprocate to our appeal,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairman. Private hospitals said they were keen to scale up their Covid beds, but the numbers suggested by WBCERC may not be practical as they are tending to other patients as well as they expect patients to other ailment to start rushing in once the lockdown start easing off gradually. Hospital administrators also wondered why government Covid-designated hospitals like MR Bangur was not pressed into full operation. “The occupancy is low in some Covid-designated hospitals. But it is also a matter of preference of patients desiring to get treatment in a particular hospital. We have appealed to private hospitals to scale up their preparedness so that they can take in patients who wants to get into a private facility,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, WBCERC member and also a member of the state’s global Covid committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-beds-in-pvt-facilities-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75481417.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||954 booked for not wearing masks||Thiruvananthapuram: Nearly 954 cases were registered on Thursday against persons for not wearing masks in public after it was made mandatory. Only two Covid-19 positive cases, in Malappuram and Kasaragod, were reported in the state even as 14 more patients tested negative. The state has now reported 497 cases of which 111 persons are under treatment in various hospitals. Of the 20,711 persons under surveillance, 20,285 are in home isolation and 426 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. To date, 25,973 samples have been sent for testing, of which 25135 returned negative. Of these, 1,508 samples were collected from priority groups such as healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers, etc, as part of sentinel surveillance of which 897 samples tested negative. As part of augmented testing, 3,128 samples taken from general public on April 26 were processed in 14 accredited government labs. Of these, 3,089 tested negative. Four have been declared positive. The 14 samples which the labs had recommended a retest are being processed while 21 samples were rejected. Of the 14 recovered persons, four are from Palakkad, three from Kollam, two each from Kannur and Kasaragod and one each from Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kozhikode. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at present 70 local bodies have been declared as hotspots. Kottayam, Kollam, Idukki and Thiruvananthapuram will see more restrictions since additional cases have been reported from these districts. The Centre issued a directive to the state government for transporting guest workers to their native places in buses. “We have been asking for a non-stop train to transport them. But the Centre wants them to be taken in buses, which is risky,’’ the chief minister said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/954-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75478310.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Support judiciary during lockdown, DGP tells cops||Visakhapatnam: The office of the director general of police (DGP) has issued a notice on the obstructions faced by the judicial staff from the police while attending to their official duties during the lockdown period. The DGP has noted that instances have occured where police have behaved impolitely with the judicial staff, made needless comments causing much embarrassment at higher quarters. “The district superintendents of police and commissioners of police are requested to get in touch with the district judges and ascertain the nature of court functioning and take measures during the lockdown period to ensure that court staff are not obstructed and inconvenienced in any manner from attending to their duties and court work is not hampered,” stated the notice. President of Forum of Legal Professionals Kuppili Muralidhar said, “Even since the lockdown, the courts have been functioning with minimal staff and attending to only important cases. For some urgent work like bail applications, the judicial staff may need to go to the court. The police should strictly adhere to the notice and ensure hassle-free movement of staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/support-judiciary-during-lockdown-dgp-tells-cops/articleshow/75479627.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||With 6 out of 10 new cases in dist, Krishna Lanka remains a worry||Vijayawada: Ten new Covid-19 cases were reported in in Krishna district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 246. In Krishna Lanka area in the city, six new cases were registered while Pornanandam Pet and Islampet reported one case each. The city police continued its vigil in Krishna Lanka and urged people to remain home. Vikranth Patil, deputy commissioner of police, conducted a red march in the containment areas in the city. A few people who were seen roaming the streets during the lockdown hours were taken to quarantine centres. Authorities strictly implemented social distancing at fruit and vegetable markets as well as all shops selling essential commodities. There are red zones at 12 key areas in the city. In Gunadala, no new Covid-19 cases were registered in the last 14 days, but it continues to be a red zone since there are a large number of cases in Machavaram. Nuzvidu has been put on high alert as new cases were reported in the area on Monday. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has imposed a 48-hour curfew in Nuzvdu area starting Thursday. Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has intensified disinfection activity in the red zones. VMC authorities have asked all sanitation staff in the red zones to wear personal protection equipment (PPE). A municipal disinfection vehicle was gutted at Hamid Street at Old City on Wednesday. The vehicle operator jumped out of the vehicle after noticing smoke. Although locals tried to douse the fire, the vehicle was gutted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-6-out-of-10-new-cases-in-dist-krishna-lanka-remains-a-worry/articleshow/75479626.cms||Venu Lanka
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Call of duty: Pregnancy no hurdle for this Rajasthan cop||AJMER: Seven-month pregnancy has never deterred this 26-year-old constable Santosh Jat to shy away from duty. Jat, who has voluntarily choosen to remain on duty, is currently deployed at Sarwar police station in Ajmer. “There are very few police personnel and a helping hand is always welcomed. Leave was an option and I was even offered but I want to work. I had even asked to be on road block duty. They gave me duty in the control room to ensure I don’t have to be out on the field,” says Santosh. A national-level gold medallist badminton player, Santosh is a native of Bikhraniya village at Degana in Nagaur and married to Chenaram Jat of Mewara. Chenaram is also a police constable, currently on duty in Udaipur. Santosh Jat is a national-level gold medallist badminton player“My father is an ex-serviceman and my husband is also a cop. We are a family of fighters and all of us are working to make our world a clean and safe place. I need to play my part in it to ensure my child comes into a safe world,” says Santosh. She joined the Rajasthan Police in 2013 and been in Sarwar for almost two years. Initially, her family members were not too happy about her decision, but now can’t help feeling proud of her. She talks to her family members every day and her husband frequently through the day. “Everyone in the Rajasthan Police, including my seniors, who are themselves on field duty through the day, is my inspiration. Everyone in my team is on a 12 to 15-hour duty. While they are out in the field in this hot weather, I take care of the control room, draft reports and send them to the headquarters. My job is much easier,” she adds. At the control room, she receives calls for help and complaints of non-compliance of lockdown, passing them on the concerned officials. Some days it gets really bad but Santosh always sits through her 12-hour duty. Santosh goes to the government hospital for a check-up daily and eats healthy food to stay fit. “I keep assuring my family that I am not alone. My colleagues and staff at the police station are my family. They take care of me and ensure I get adequate rest and eat properly. Every time they come from the field, they get me something to eat. They worry about me and most of them crack jokes and make me laugh to keep the mood light and positive,” she says. Everyone around her appreciates the work she is doing and have a great regard for her spirit. "Santosh is a dedicated cop and always keen to help. All of us keep complementing on the work she is doing despite her condition," said Ashutosh Pandey, SHO of Sarwar Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/call-of-duty-pregnancy-no-hurdle-for-this-cop/articleshow/75481430.cms||Kshitiz Gaur
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Villagers build isolation centre in Barmer district||JAISALMER: These days, people in rural areas are also very careful in letting people from outside enter their villages. When a student from Kota recently came to Daboi village in Dhorimanna subdivision of Barmer district, villagers put him in an isolation centre, 300 metre away from the village, for 14 days. The village has a population of around 4,500. Migrants from different parts of the country are returning to their home in Rajasthan and villagers are increasingly becoming serious in taking preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus. Since Kota is in red zone category, villagers ensured that the student spent 14 days in quarantine. Engineer Mangla Ram said preventive measures were being taken so that people coming from other places do not spread the virus in the village. Mangla said his brother Ramesh studies medical at Allen in Kota. Mangla said during his stay at the isolation centre Ramesh has been given a laptop and he is studying online and every day a separate newspaper is given to him so that he comes to know what was happening in the world. Ramesh’s mother Meero Devi said he has been given separate utensils for breakfast, lunch and dinner and it is served 60-70 metre away from his room. She said the best way to prevent the pandemic was social distancing. She advocated that people in other villages should also keep people coming from other places in quarantine. Ramesh said now he was getting home food and was studying online with laptop. Dhorimanna SDO Kusumlata Chaihan said the isolation room made by the villagers was really unique and was an example.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-build-isolation-centre-in-barmer-district/articleshow/75481419.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Govt teacher ends life in Jaisalmer||A government schoolteacher allegedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at his rented home in Phalsoond police station area on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-teacher-ends-life-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75481424.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Vadodara||Health workers among 13 go home from Covid care centre||Vadodara: As health workers associated with primary health centre (PHC) at Kayavarohan in Dabhoi taluka, they were on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19. But in mid this month, they too had fallen prey to the virus.On Thursday, however, pharmacist Sanjay Parmar and nurse Harshida Patel, 29, emerged victorious as they were discharged from the High Speed Rail Training Institute (HSRTI) Covid Care Centre amidst cheers from other health workers deployed there.“The duo are the real examples of those health workers who were performing their duties despite all the odds,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara.A total of 13 Covid-19 patients including 12 from HSRTI Covid Care Centre and one from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri were discharged on Thursday. “It is all because of the hard work of the doctors and nurses at the hospital that I have recovered and am getting discharged,” said Bibi Abujiwala, a 60-year-old woman from Nagarwada area of the city, who was discharged from the Gotri hospital.With this, the total number of patients discharged in Vadodara reached 112 by Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/health-workers-among-13-go-home-from-covid-care-centre/articleshow/75478337.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||No hospital in West Bengal can deny services for any reason||KOLKATA: No patient can be denied healthcare services for any reason whatsoever, the state government on Thursday announced in an order signed by state health secretary Vivek Kumar. The order also said that no government approval is required for either admitting or treating a patient in any healthcare facility or for testing an individual for Covid as per ICMR testing protocol. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had earlier stressed that Bengal has a “zero tolerance” for such hospital refusals. The state order comes in wake of a detailed advisory sent by union health secretary Preeti Sudan to all states on April 28. Sinha also told reporters that Bengal till Thursday completed 16,525 tests and the tests per million increased to 183. This was 161 the day before. On Thursday, 1905 samples — the highest — were tested on Thursday. “The testing scale-up is proportional to the number of tests. On February 1, we had one testing centre, on March 2, we had two. On March 27, this became three and now we have 14 testing centres but one at CNCI has developed a technical snag. This figure will keep increasing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-hospital-can-deny-services-for-any-reason/articleshow/75481427.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Patients allege Covid-19 infection spreading in quarantine facilities||AURANGABAD: The relatives of patients and former Covid-19 suspects have alleged that the quarantine facility where patients are placed until their throat swab reports are received have poor infrastructure, risking the exposure of virus to non-Covid patients. They said that the quarantine facilities have a common rest room which could be a possible place where the infection could be transmitted. According to a patient who tested negative for Covid-19, their family was taken to the district civil hospital after one of the family members tested positive for the infection. “Our throat swabs were collected and we were placed in a quarantine facility at the district civil hospital. Apparently, the facility had kept the patients in a general ward-like set up and all were using the same bathroom for two days. Only after the swab report was released did we come to know that Covid-19 positive patients too were in the same facility along with us. Probably, some may had acquired the infection during the hospital stay,” the person, who did not wished to be named, said. In another case, a Covid-19 recovered patient alleged that he had contracted the infection while waiting for the throat swab report at the quarantine facility. He said that there was no other way he could have contracted the virus. “Though one of my family members tested positive for Covid-19, I had not come in contact with that person,” the recovered patient said. According to district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni, the district civil hospital has stopped screening Covid-19 patients about two-three days ago. They have also stopped admitting suspects. “Earlier, our first floor was dedicated for Covid-19 suspect cases only. They were placed in the said ward until their reports were received. Once tested positive, the patients were sent to the second floor — Covid-19 positive isolation ward. Those who tested negative were discharged from the hospital. With the rise in cases, we are only keeping Covid-19 positive cases at the hospital now,” Kulkarni said. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said that instructions has been issued to all hospitals to keep each Covid-19 suspected patient in segregation while they are awaiting the throat swab reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/patients-allege-covid-19-infection-spreading-in-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75479652.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Villager complains of sub-standard ration kit, DM ensures action||Dehradun: A migrant worker living in Delhi took to social media on Wednesday, claiming that his family in Rudraprayag has been getting “rotten and uneatable” rice grains. The district magistrate (DM), acknowledging the matter, promised to act on it. Harish Singh Negi, who works as a driver and lives in Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur and is unable to reach home due to lockdown, told TOI over the phone that poor quality ration kits were being distributed in Bangaon Talla area of the district. “In the kit, my wife received a packet of pulses, mustard oil bottle, and rice. When she opened the rice, it turned out to be rotten. I got disturbed when my wife shared the photo of the unhygienic rice that is being distributed to the villagers,” Negi said. Reacting to the matter, a local activist, Mohit Dimri filed a complaint with the district administration.“I found out that the packets are being distributed by an NGO based in Haridwar. The district administration should have at least tested the quality of the ration kits before giving them to poor villagers,” Dimri said. Reacting to the matter, Rudraprayag DM Mangesh Ghildiyal said, “I have warned the NGO. Our team has taken feedback from all 50 families who received the ration kits and barring one family, all had no complaints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villager-complains-of-sub-standard-ration-kit-dm-ensures-action/articleshow/75479655.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drug peddler’s phone helps cops nab 8 addicts||BENGALURU: A drug peddler’s confiscated mobile phone has led to the arrest of at least eight drug addicts since Monday evening. Jayanagar police arrested Eshwar Yelchur, 24, on April 22 at Jayanagar 5th Block, when he was smuggling ganja to Whitefield and recovered 245 grams of the drug . Yelchur’s associate Gopi alias Gopalakrishna, 40, was nabbed from his Uttarahalli home on April 24. “Gopi’s customers used to contact him on his mobile phone and we told Gopi to ask them to come near Jayanagar Metro station to collect the contraband. We then arrested eight persons on Monday and Tuesday. Three separate cases have been registered against them,” an officer said. Sripurna KS, 39, of Girinagar, Suresh S, 28, of Srinagar and Sharath B, 30, of Banashankari 2nd Stage were arrested around 7pm on Monday. Within 30 minutes, three more persons — Ajay Govind, 35, of Girinagar, Hari Prasad, 25, of JP Nagar 8th Stage and Mohan Babu, 25, of Tavarekere — were picked up. Mayur, 28, of Malleswaram and Sanjay K, 24, of Nagarabhavi were arrested on Tuesday evening. Sripurna is a businessman and others are employees in private firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drug-peddlers-phone-helps-cops-nab-8-addicts/articleshow/75480569.cms||Santosh kumar.B
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: First positive Covid-19 case for Chittoor town||TIRUPATI: Chittoor town reported its first case of positive coronavirus test in ward 37 on Thursday. A 30-year-old resident of Ambur in Tamil Nadu, who managed to evade the police in both the states and sneak into Chittoor town about a week ago, tested positive in the town on Thursday. Sources claimed that the man had come to the town to meet his girlfriend. Village volunteers and Asha workers, who found out about it and noticed that the man had Covid-19 symptoms, alerted officials of the Chittoor district administration and the local police department. After being first shifted to the government general hospital at Chittoor and later to the SVRR government hospital in Tirupati, the man from Tamil Nadu tested positive on Thursday. Following the man’s results coming back positive, district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and SP S Senthil Kumar inspected the 37th ward and declared it a red zone. Officials have already initiated measures to identify and isolate all the primary and secondary contacts of the patient. A 30-year-old man from of Ambur, Tamil Nadu managed to evade the police in both states and sneak into Chittoor town about a week ago. He was allegedly in town to meet his girlfriend||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/first-positive-covid-19-case-for-chittoor-town/articleshow/75479656.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 1, 2020||Delhi||As many unable to report to work, sanitation, disinfection in Delhi hit||NEW DELHI: With Haryana sealing its borders and putting strong curbs in place, sanitation and disinfection operations in some of Delhi’s containment zones have been hit, according to municipal corporation officials. The civic bodies, police and utilities are countering the shortfall in manpower by offering employees living across the borders financial support, lodging facilities and logistical support. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has already drawn up a list of employees who have permanent residences outside Delhi. Around 2,300 workers fall in the category of inter-state commuters, most of them working in the sanitation and public health departments. A senior sanitation officer in charge of SDMC’s central zone, told TOI that around 400 sanitation workers hadn’t been able to turn up for work since the borders closed. Another official said many drivers and fieldworkers carrying out disinfection in Covid-affected areas hadn’t managed to report for work. “Drivers from Haryana being unable to come to work has compromised the sanitisation activities in some containment zones,” claimed an SDMC official, pointing out 51 such employees live in Haryana, 10 in Rajasthan and eight in UP. “Only 16 of the 51 reported for work on Thursday. Some of them got permission to cross the border, others have been staying in Delhi.” Civic officials are apprehensive about things going out of control if the issue of unhindered border crossing is not sorted out. SDMC has announced a reimbursement scheme in which Group A and B officers will be paid a daily lodging allowance of Rs 2,000, while Grade C and D workers will be paid Rs 1,100. An official, however, disclosed that only 15 people had applied for lodgings till Thursday evening. The north corporation draws 15-20% of its workforce from NCR towns and is trying to manage with the reduced manpower. “The deputy commissioners in Haryana have quarantined the families of people who work with us in Delhi,” an official added. Around 30% of Delhi Police, 20% of Delhi Transport Corporation staff and 23% of Delhi Jal Board staff also commute to the capital from NCR areas. A Delhi police official said that around 12,000 policemen travel to Delhi from across the state borders. “They have been allotted barracks or hotel rooms,” the officer said. “Those who insisted on staying with their families have been given travel passes and the police forces of UP and Haryana requested to permit twice daily entry and exit to them.” However, border roads and crossing in villages like Kair and Isherheri in southwest Delhi have been closed. DJB has 23% of its employees coming to Delhi from Haryana and UP. A DJB official informed that 4,000 of its 17,000 employees are working from home, while the rest have field duties to ensure constant water supply. “We have accommodated some personnel in our housing quarters and on water treatment plant premises,” an official said. Meanwhile, DTC has exempted all employees residing in Haryana from work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-many-unable-to-report-to-work-sanitation-disinfection-in-delhi-hit/articleshow/75480600.cms||Paras Singh
May 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur zila parishad gives free PPE kits to doctors, staff||JODHPUR: Zila parishad employees here have come to the rescue of the medical and paramedical staff dealing with the corona positive cases in and out of the hospital. In view of acute shortage of safety accessories like Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks, the zila parishad has already started manufacturing of PPE kits and other accessories through their own resources and have been providing them free of cost to the medical and nursing staff besides others who are at risk of contact with the corona patients, dead or alive. For this, the staff collected Rs 35 lakh from all the officials and employees, including panchayati raj staff, BDO and others from entire district and began manufacturing kits and arranging other equipment to make them available to the corona fighters free of cost. Executive engineer (zila parishad) Naresh Bohra said that the idea was shared by CEO Inder Jeet Yadav after learning about the shortage of the safety gears being faced by the medical staff dealing with the corona positive cases. It was then decided to garner support from the officials and employees of the zila parishad and panchayat samities besides social organisations and donors. Meanwhile, the details regarding the design, quality and material to be used were collected with the help of the experts from AIIMS, S N Medical College and medical suppliers and contacts were established with the suppliers of the material. Bohra, who has stayed back despite transfer to execute this mission, said that Rs 35 lakh was arranged and manufacturing of the PPE kits was initiated after approval from the experts by engaging three self-help groups with a view to control the cost. He said that the material was sourced from different places besides Jodhpur like cloth for kit from Delhi, Udaipur and Kishangarh, masks from Pune, and other material from Jaipur, Pali and Chittorgarh. Assistant engineer Om Prakash Parihar said that 200 kits are being manufactured per day and over 7,000 kits have been prepared by these groups, which are in three categories depending on the users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/zila-parishad-gives-free-ppe-kits-to-docs-staff/articleshow/75481445.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Over 6 lakh stranded Rajasthani workers register for homecoming||JAIPUR: Over 6 lakh stranded Rajasthani migrant workers have registered through various platforms created by the state government to come to the state, as per data collected by the state coordination committee. Official sources said the number is expected to go up in the coming days. The state government has kept ready over 1,400 isolation centres across the state for keeping the people who have ILI symptoms. To facilitate the homecoming of not only migrant workers, but also tourists, students and other category of people stranded, the coordination committee issued guidelines with regard to their screening, registration at the check-posts and self-quarantine for 14 days at home. Similarly, the state government has also allowed intra-state movement of workers from one district to other wherein they have to take permission from the respective collector. Over 2.68 lakh workers from various states stranded in Rajasthan have also registered to go back to their home states, head of coordination committee and additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal said. “Systematic arrangements, including screening the workers before boarding the buses at their host states to registration at check points, isolation centres with all facilities and quarantine rules have been laid down to make the movement orderly and hassle free,” Agarwal told TOI. According to Agarwal, 8,287 Rajasthani migrant workers have been brought to the state so far, of these 5,619 workers from various camps in Gujarat. From Rajasthan, as many as 27,487 workers have been sent to Gujarat, as per the information given out by the coordination committee. So far, 22,278 students from Kota have been sent to their respective states, but there are 17,000 students belonging to Bihar, Jharkhand, Delhi and Odisha still stranded. Over 9,300 Rajasthani workers holed up in Madhya Pradesh have registered to come back to the state. Already, 2,275 people have come to the state from MP. More than 24,500 workers from MP in Rajasthan have gone back and another batch of 3,281 people would be leaving soon. Similarly, 522 workers from Rajasthan are staying in various camps in Haryana and on Friday 233 of them would be departing from there. About 2,200 workers from Haryana are staying in various camps in Rajasthan and the movement will start once the state makes arrangements and gives permission. On Thursday morning, 222 Rajasthani workers left Assam for the state in 17 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-6l-stranded-workers-register-for-homecoming/articleshow/75481437.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Relish this! Dakiya to deliver mangoes at your doorstep in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Postmen in twin cities are set to bring Banganapalle mangoes to your doorstep this season, after you place an order via Whatsapp and pay for it through UPI apps Google Pay or Phone Pay. Noticing the dearth in the supply for the seasonal fruit due to the lockdown, the Telangana State Horticulture Development Corporation (TSHDC), in coordination with the Indian Post, Telangana circle has made all arrangements to supply mangoes. Starting Friday, customers can place orders through WhatsApp to get Banganapalle mangoes, also known as Benishan. “Customers can place orders between 9 am to 5 pm by paying of Rs 350 per five kilograms of Banginapally mangoes. They should WhatsApp their orders to 7997724925 and 7997724941. They can pay the amount either through Google Pay or Phone Pay to this number,” TSHDC general manager B Babu told TOI. “Mangoes will be delivered within four days from the date of booking. Customers have to provide their postal address with pin code along with mobile number for speedy delivery,” the official said, adding that special precautions are being taken for the service. “We are taking all necessary precautions while packing the mangoes. Special cartons will be used to avoid damage and to keep flavour intact. Each carton will have 12 to 15 mangoes, which would be more than five kgs,” said Babu. Another official said that the mangoes are procured from Jagityal, Nagarkurnool and Ranga Reddy, Sanga Reddy and Khammam districts that produce close to 12 lakh metric tonnes every year. According to sources in the postal department, the mangoes will be delivered through mail motor service (MMS). The services of postmen would be used for door delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relish-this-dakiya-to-deliver-mangoes-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/75480611.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government sanctions Rs 145.94 crore for POP of Gandikota reservoir||TIRUPATI: The state government on Thursday sanctioned Rs 145.94 crore for families to be displaced under the Gandikota reservoir project. It will be executed as part of the Galeru-Nagari Sujala Sravanthi project in chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s home district Kadapa. Following a report submitted by the Kadapa district collector to the government to sanction Rs 145.94 crore to be paid to the project affected families residing in Kondapuram village, Kadapa district, the state government of AP sanctioned the amount on Thursday. The state government has directed the Kadapa district collector to disburse the compensation at the time of relocation of the families and to ensure that the families, which vacate the Kondapuram village do not settle down in any of the other villages, which will be submerged owing to the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-govt-sanctions-rs-145-94-cr-for-pop-of-gandikota-reservoir/articleshow/75479661.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||HC clubs Kinwat leopard deaths with Aurangabad case||Aurangabad: After voluntarily taking note of the death of a leopard during a rescue operation at Pachod in Aurangabad district, the recent poisoning of two young leopards at Kinwat in Nanded has also caught the judiciary’s attention. The Aurangabad bench of the high court on Thursday clubbed the Kinwat incidents with the suo motu PIL it has initiated in the Pachod case. A single-member bench of Justice Ravidran Ghuge has asked the forest department and other competent authority to place on record the details of the Kinwat leopard deaths within 48-hours. In response to the suo motu order passed by the court on April 15, advocate Chaitanya Dharurkar, who is serving as amicus curiae, placed on record a detailed PIL with necessary documents. The court has given time till May 15 to the amicus curiae to amend the petition by incorporating incidents of Kinwat leopard deaths in the suo motu PIL. The court, which held a virtual hearing, issued notices to the forest department and other competent authorities with next hearing scheduled on June 10. During the proceedings, the issue of the forest department allegedly not having vehicles and equipment needed for handling and transportation of injured animals or capture/transport of animals for their release into the natural habitat were also brought to the notice for the court. The court has asked the forest department to file the necessary affidavit. Honorary wildlife warden for Nanded division, Atindra Katti lauded the judiciary for expanding the scope of suo motu PIL and bringing on record the deaths of leopards in Kinwat. “The credit also goes to amicus curiae. The latest judicial steps will set a strong deterrent. We hope that the case reaches its logical end and all guilty are punished in both incidents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-clubs-kinwat-leopard-deaths-with-aurangabad-case/articleshow/75479659.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hospital doors still shut for non-Covid patients||KOLKATA: Critically ill patients continue to be turned away by some private and government hospitals despite the union health ministry and the state health department’s notifications this week seeking easy access to hospitals for non-Covid patients. Intekhaf Chowdhury, a doctor, found most hospitals shutting their doors on him when he tried to admit a close relative suffering from cancer. “I was told by the hospitals that they were not admitting new cases. It is ridiculous, what will people do in an emergency? My relative has a condition, which cannot be managed at home, otherwise I would not have tried to get him admitted,” said Chowdhury and added that if a doctor like him was refused, others would be even worse off. He said he had contacted two hospitals on EM Bypass but they refused admission. “One said that emergency cases were not admitted at that hour and the other said that they have no ICU beds. Finally, my relative had to be admitted in a hospital which has got Covid positive patients. So we are now looking for a different hospital,” Chowdhury said. He added that the patient’s protein level has reduced and he needs hospitalization. Union health secretary Preeti Sudan, in her missive to the state governments on Tuesday stated that hospitals in the private sector are hesitating in providing critical services such as dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries to regular patients fearing Covid-19 and were keeping hospitals closed. Oncologist Saurav Datta said cancer patients are suffering due to the threat of Corona and hospitals must realize the urgency and arrange for their treatment. Indranil Khan, another oncologist said the cancer patients have a huge problem in reaching hospitals for chemotherapy or other illness. “I am trying my best to arrange beds for patients. Many hospitals have made screening mandatory before admitting cancer patients,” Khan said. He added “Cancer patients have low immunity and thus more vulnerable to Covid-19. Several patients with diarrhoea and kidney problems have also been refused admission over the last two weeks. Behala resident Sadananda Giri said he had a major problem in getting a relative — who suffered food poisoning — admitted to a private hospital. “They relented after I kept pleading with them for more than an hour,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-doors-still-shut-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/75481443.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Caught in ‘to go or not to go’ dilemma||Hyderabad: Until a week ago, Mohd Tajuddin Mollia was certain about returning home, as soon as the first train service to Howrah resumed operation, post lockdown. But now that the Centre has paved way for those like him to go back, Mollia isn’t so sure about his decision anymore. The 37-year-old from North 24 Parganas in West Bengal is now mulling staying put in the city and making some money before visiting his family for a short vacation, later this year. Read the entire story on TOI+To go home or not? A tough call for migrants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/caught-in-to-go-or-not-to-go-dilemma/articleshow/75480643.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Hospitals divided into 3 categories in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The district administration on Thursday divided city hospitals into three categories to cater to both coronavirus and non-corona patients. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said both categories will be treated at KGMU, SGPGI and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. They will treat also critical patients. Seven hospitals have been designated to treat only Covid-19 patients. These are Lokbandhu Hospital, Ramsagar Mishra Hospital in Bakshi Ka Talab, Era Medical College, Integral Medical College, TS Mishra Medical College, Prasad Medical College and Career Medical College. SPM Civil Hospital and Balrampur Hospital are for non-Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hospitals-divided-into-3-categories/articleshow/75481453.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bhopal||Babaria resigns as MP Congress in-charge, Wasnik replaces him||Bhopal: AICC general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh Deepak Babaria resigned from the post on Thursday citing ill -health as the reason. Congress national president Sonia Gandhi accepted Babaria’s resignation and appointed AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik in his place. Wasnik is presently also in-charge of party affairs in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. Senior Congress leader KC Venugopal in a release said, “Congress president has accepted the resignation of Deepak Babaria from the post of general secretary in-charge of MP and appointed Mukul Wasnik as the general secretary in charge of MP in addition to his present responsibilities.” Venugopal also specified that the Congress party “wholeheartedly appreciates” the contributions of Deepak Babaria. Known as a strict organisation man, Babaria was appointed AICC general secretary in-charge of MP on September 9, 2017 when he replaced Mohan Prakash. During the 2018 assembly elections, Babaria as in-charge of party affairs and Kamal Nath as state Congress president brought back the party to power in the state after a gap of 15 years. However, Babaria suffered a brain stroke in February 2019, just two months ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. Party did not replace Babaria even then. Congress lost 28 out of 29 Lok Sabha seats in the state, a huge shock for the party that had recovered a lot of lost ground in the assembly polls just six months ago. The latest blow was when former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia switched loyalties to the BJP with 22 Congress MLAs toppling the 15-month Congress government in the state. Party sources said that over the past one year, there have been issues between Babaria and some senior party leaders. He had expressed his discomfort with the way he was being treated in the state Congress more than once. Now, the future of the Congress party depends on the 24 assembly seats that will go to bypoll soon. At this stage, Babaria’s health again became a vital issue. Later, in the evening, Babaria sent a letter addressed to his “mates” in the state Congress stating, “I have worked with you in MP for more than two years. I received full support and love. For this, I will always be thankful to you.” He further said, “I have resigned because of my health condition and Congress president has kindly accepted the same.” Babaria thanked AICC president Sonia Gandhi for giving him an opportunity to work in MP. About the fall of the Kamal Nath government in March, Babaria wrote, “I believe that powers that murdered democracy in MP are the same that have become a challenge for the country and Constitution. This is a testing time for all of us. Be prepared and stand strong with Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi to confront this challenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/babaria-resigns-as-mp-congress-in-charge-wasnik-replaces-him/articleshow/75481464.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government to invest Rs 3,000 crore on fishing harbours||VIJAYAWADA: The state government will build eight fishing harbours and one fish landing centre in the state with an investment of around Rs 3,000 crore. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting with officials and minister for fisheries and animal husbandry Mopidevi Venkata Ramana on the proposed fishing harbours in the state. Mopidevi said the government has decided to mitigate the migration of fishermen in coastal Andhra Pradesh to other states. The minister said that the new fishing harbours will come up at Budagatlapalem (Srikakulam), Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam), Uppada (East Godavari), Narsapuram (West Godavari), Machilipatnam (Krishna), Nizampatnam (Guntur), Kothapatnam (Prakasam), and Juvvaladinne (Nellore). The fish landing centre is earmarked for Manchalapeta in Srikakulam district. The government has decided to complete the eight fishing harbours and the fish landing centre within in three years. The previous government had set up only three fishing landing centres in the state in five years, the minister added. “We expect that new harbours will boost fish and prawn production and exports to create employment among the fisherfolk in the state and so that they need not go to other states in search of livelihood,” said Mopidevi. Nearly, 4,000 Andhra Pradesh fishermen, who were stranded in Gujarat for over a month due to the lockdown, are expected to reach the state on Friday evening. The fishermen are returning to the state in buses. The minister said the fishermen, coming back in buses, were finding it difficult to get food since roadside eateries are shut down. “We are making our best efforts to provide food and water to them. Once, they reach their hometowns, they will be quarantined,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-invest-rs-3000cr-on-fishing-harbours/articleshow/75479667.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes govt notification nominating 4 Nanded gurdwara board members||Aurangabad: Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday quashed and set aside a state government notification recommending four board members’ nomination to the Nanded Gurdwara Board. The HC bench, comprising Justices S V Gangapurwala and Shrikant d (is this a typo??) Kulkarni, dubbed the government notification arbitrary, and observed: “Arbitrariness has no role in the society governed by rule of law. Arbitrariness is antithesis to the rule of law, justice, equity, fair play and good conscience. The arbitrary action cannot withstand to test of law.” Sardar Manjieeth Singh Jagan Singh, currently a resident of Hyderabad, had challenged the notification (dated 21.06.2019) issued by the state through lawyers Ganesh A Gandhe and S Jasbir Singh. Through the notification, the government nominated “members on Nanded Sikh Gurdwara Sachkhand Shree Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib Board from Sachkhand Hazuri Khalsa Diwan, Nanded, a trust, U/Sec. 6(1)(viii) of the Nanded Sikh Gurdwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib Act, 1956.” The high court has stayed its own order for three weeks following request from the lawyers representing the four respondents (the board members) whose nomination it had quashed and set aside. The court observed: “Considering the fact that the respondent Nos. 4 to 7 were occupying the post and by virtue of the present order they are unsettled, we grant stay to the present judgment for a period of three weeks from today. Needless to state on lapse of three weeks, present protection shall come to an end.’’ The four respondents whose nomination was quashed include Sardar Gurucharan Singh Ghadisaj, Sardar Sardul Singh Fauji, Sardar Bahginder Singh and Sardar Jagwir Singh Shahu. The petitioner argued that “As per the Act, the trust (Diwan) had to nominate four members from among its members to the gurdwara board. The impugned notification is contrary to Section 6(1)(viii) of the Act 1956. The general committee has powers to nominate members to the board. The government cannot finalize the names on its own or on the basis of proposal received by different persons claiming their position in Diwan as members of the executive committee.” It said, “As per Sec. 6(1) (viii) of the Act 1956 and Sec. 4 of the bye-laws of the Diwan, only the general committee of the Diwan can nominate four persons on gurdwara board. The general committee is empowered to take policy decision and executive committee is not vested with such powers. The general committee of the Diwan has not passed any resolution nominating persons for appointment over the gurdwara board from Diwan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-govt-notification-nominating-4-nanded-gurdwara-board-members/articleshow/75479668.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Postal services live up to challenges of lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Department of Posts, Visakhapatnam region, has delivered nearly 43,000 articles and 500 parcels through speed and registered posts during the lockdown period till Thursday. The region consists of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. M Venkateswarlu, regional postmaster general, said: “Ours is essential service. We delivered nearly 100 parcels of life saving medicines besides regular articles.” Nearly 2.78 lakhs of Post Office SB (post office savings bank) transactions took place during this period. The department delivered 42,492 articles, booked 8243 articles and delivered 424 parcels till recently. In containment areas, post office counters work only from 8am to 11.30 am. “Branch offices in Amalapuram and Visakhapatnam divisions were closed since they come under red zones. We have supplied sanitisers, soaps and masks to the staff,” said Venkateswarlu. The department has provided AePS (Aadhaar Enabled Payment System) platform of India Post Payment Bank to extend financial services including DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) of various schemes of the central and state governments. During the lockdown, 15,984 AePS transactions were done in Visakhapatnam postal region and 15 ATMs were made functional with 6,191 transactions valuing Rs 2.94 crore, said Venkateswarlu told. Mails routing through railway sections and RTC MMS have come to a standstill during the lockdown. Alternatively, parcel trains, air cargo and mail motor service schedules were introduced for exchange of mail bags from time to time, he added. Besides, road transport network was introduced in important sectors to ensure speedy disposal of mail bags of inter-circle and intra-circle to ensure that transmission of inward and outward mails is carried out smoothly, said Venkateswarlu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/postal-services-live-up-to-challenges-of-lockdown/articleshow/75479671.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Total lockdown won’t build immunity: Experts||LUCKNOW: Should lockdown be lifted on May 3? Experts in Lucknow feel the exit strategy should be to ease services in crucial economic areas through periodical and partial lockdown, which will keep Covid-19 under check as well. Former head of microbiology at SGPGI Lucknow, Prof T N Dhole said “Any virus only gets controlled when at least 80% of the population becomes immune to it, hence absolute lockdown will not help people in developing ‘herd immunity’ against it. This immunity is achieved only when a certain number of people are allowed to move out in their environment but not gather together.” “Hence, lockdown can be partially lifted for three days where people are allowed to move out from 8am to 6pm. Thereafter, strict lockdown should be enforced again but its duration should be based on cases reported during the gap. However, before lifting lockdown, administration should do a rehearsal of swift action in case there is a surge of infection,” Prof Dhole said.Lockdown can be eased first in areas essential for growth to bring economy back on track, but due care should be taken to prevent any crowding while allowing people to work. Former dean, quality and planning, KGMU, and professor of medicine, Dr S K Das said the situation is precarious and path of herd immunity has great risks. “Flattening of infection curve with lockdown alone without bringing the disease to zero, only postpones its overall occurrence and deaths it may cause. Moreover, lockdown hurts economy hard, which cannot be overlooked. But, at the same time, lifting lockdown completely may lead to surge because there is no treatment or vaccine available as of now.” “In such a scenario, India’s decision to mark red, yellow and green zones for gradually opening important economic activities seems to be the best alternative,” said Dr Das, who in a recent paper ‘Breaking the back of Covid-19 epidemic’ discussed lockdown exit strategy in detail. “Government can allow normal life in green zones and public movement for essentials in orange zones, while enforcing total restriction in red zone even if it requires use of police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/total-lockdown-wont-build-immunity-experts/articleshow/75481471.cms||Yusra Husain
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Police file cheating case against former CM Naidu’s personal secy||Vijayawada: A case of cheating and forgery has been booked against P Manohar, the constituency personal assistant of former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, at Kuppam police station on Wednesday. Based on a complaint from local YSRC functionary AS Vidyasagar, the police registered a case under section 420, 468 and 471 of IPC against Manohar. Vidysagar, in his complaint, alleged that Manohar had withdrawn Rs 1 lakh and also took a loan of Rs 11.77 lakh by pledging the fixed deposits of Sri Prasanna Tirupati Gangamamba Temple account in Kuppam Credit Cooperative Bank. The temple trust board collected about Rs 90 lakh donations to conduct annual celebrations (jatara) in the year 2014-15. After completion of the celebrations, there was about Rs 40 lakh amount that was not spent. An account was opened in the name of temple and the amount was lodged into a fixed deposit to utilise the interest amount for the maintenance of temple. Being the temple trust board member, Vidyasagar was completely unaware of the transaction and upon verification with the bank, he found out that his signature was forged on the loan documents and on the withdrawal docket. He alleged that it was Manohar who forged his signature and made him a defaulter with the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-file-cheating-case-against-former-cm-naidus-personal-secy/articleshow/75479672.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||IFF for norms on fake news arrests||Hyderabad: Expressing concern over arrests for alleged ‘Fake News’ and misinformation on social media by invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act, Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) has written to the Union ministry of home affairs seeking an advisory on it. Arrests took place in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and other states since the pandemic broke out. “Though misinformation on Covid-19 is a big problem to be tackled, the arbitrary arrests of political opponents and media personnel, who criticised government, should be stopped. The arrests are made on the allegation of spreading fake news under the Epidemic Diseases Act using the vague phrasing, which has given extensive powers to the government and law enforcement agencies,” IFF said, adding over 500 cases were booked under the Act on the allegations of spreading fake news. The Epidemic Diseases Act gives wide powers to the state government to make temporary regulations to prevent the outbreak or further spread of the epidemic. IPC Section 505 says three-year imprisonment for publishing or circulating rumour or report, which might cause fear or alarm to the public. Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act also deals with creating false alarms, it added. “In West Bengal, there are close to 100 arrests, while 18 were held in Maharasthra, 15 in Mizoram and three in Telangana for the allegations of spreading fake news and similar offences,” IFF said. “The wide ambit of Epidemic Diseases Act might lead to arbitrary arrests targeting specific community or political opponents. The Act could then be used to stifle political dissent instead of curbing fake news. Since these provisions are broadly phrased, they can result in arbitrary action. A news portal founder was arrested in Tamil Nadu for publishing critical reports of the government(sic),” IFF said, demanding there should be no arbitrary arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iff-for-norms-on-fake-news-arrests/articleshow/75480594.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||47 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Aurangabad||47 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Aurangabad Aurangabad: A total of 47 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the tally of cases in city to 151. These cases include the ones from high-risk areas and three from new areas of the city. Over the last three days, the number of Covid-19 confirmed cases has spiked from 53 to 177. A male nurse working at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) too tested positive for the virus on Thursday. He was posted at the non-Covid ward at the GMCH. “The male nurse is showing mild symptoms and lives in Beghumpura with his wife. He is a native of Jalna. We are yet to get information about his travel history. His wife was posted at the Covid-19 ward for a night. Her throat swab samples were sent for testing. However, she tested negative for the infection,” Yelikar said. According to GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, five cases were detected from Qile Ark, eight from Jai Bhim Nagar, two from Asefiya Colony, Noor Colony and Naregaon each, one from Kailash Nagar, Chikalthana, Shaha Nagar, Hilal Colony, Beghumpura, Khadkeshwar, Roshan Gate and Sky City Beed Bypass each and 18 from Mukundwadi on Thursday. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said that the process of moving 46 of these patients to district civil hospital is currently underway. Teams of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) were on ground until late evening on Thursday for contact mapping of the high-risk areas and for moving Covid-19 positive patients to the district civil hospital. Of the total 177 Covid-19 cases, 24 have been discharged after recovering while seven have succumbed to the infection. The remaining 135 are undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital and 11 at GMCH, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said. Notably, this is the second nurse from GMCH who tested positive for novel coronavirus. Earlier, a 38-year-old male nurses posted at the casualty ward had contracted the virus. He was treated at the district civil hospital and discharged. The recent male nurse case has raised concerns on the health of frontline workers posted at the government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/47-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75479583.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||RDSO develops world’s most powerful loco||LUCKNOW: The Research Designs and Standards Organization (RDSO) has developed what is being touted as the world’s most powerful railway locomotive, WAG 12B of 12000 HP, which can run at a maximum speed of 120 kmph. An ideal choice for hauling long and heavy freight trains on main line and dedicated freight corridor, the locomotive was manufactured by Madhepura Electric Locomotive Pvt Ltd, a joint venture of Railways and M/S Alstom Manufacturing India Ltd. This has bolstered the government’s ‘Make in India’ vision with locomotives being manufactured in India with more than 90% localisation. The designs were reviewed by RDSO to ensure compliance to specifications and practices of Indian Railways. RDSO has carried out an oscillation trial at 110kmph at Ambala division of Northern Railway and another at 132 kmph at Kota division of west central railway. A prototype locomotive has been tested by RDSO at the locomotive factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rdso-develops-worlds-most-powerful-loco/articleshow/75481493.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Use online payment facilities, says MSEDCL||Aurangabad: Amid strained financial conditions due to non-recovery of bills during the current lockdown, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has appealed to its consumers to pay monthly bills using online payment facilities. The online payment can be done by visiting official MSEDCL’s official website www.mahadiscom.in or mobile application devised by the state power utility which is available on Google Playstore and other authorised platforms, an official release said. The state power utility has appealed to consumers to register their mobile numbers with them. It will help the consumers in receiving various official updates. To register their mobile number, consumers have to type MREG followed by 12-digit consumer number and send a text message to 9930399303. The necessary registration of mobile number can also be done by visiting the designated website consumerinfo.mahadiscom.in. While MSEDCL has suspended operations such as door-to-door visits for noting down meter reading among other routine work, the state power utility has appealed to consumers to submit the meter reading using mobile application. The consumers not making such self-submission of power consumption will recieve average billing. “The consumers will get a message on their registered mobile number for making self-submission of meter reading using mobile application. In case consumers do not receive any such message, they are advised to view the date printed on previous bill when the meter reading was taken. The self-submission can be made within five days of the date concerned during the ongoing month,” MSEDCL authorities said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has demanded a special economic package from the Centre to the state due to current lockdown. The minister, during a power purchase meeting held recently, also demanded that electricity be categorised in the list of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/use-online-payment-facilities-says-msedcl/articleshow/75479692.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Railways cross 30L-mark in distribution of free meals||Aurangabad: The distribution of free meals by Indian Railways has crossed 30 lakh-mark on Thursday. The national transporter had touched the 10 lakh mark on April 20 and another 10 lakh in the next 10 days, an official release said. Of these, about 17.17 lakh cooked meals have been provided by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), about 5.18 lakh meals by railway protection force ( RPF) using its own resources, about 2.53 lakh meals by commercial and other departments of railways and nearly 5.60 lakh meals have been donated by NGOs working with the railway organizations. Stranded people, daily wage workers, migrants, children, coolies, homeless, poor and many form the floating population for the beneficiaries of vital help extended by the railways. “Indian Railways staff has worked tirelessly since March 28 to provide hot cooked meals to needy people during the lockdown. Indian Railways has been providing bulk cooked food with paper plates for lunch and food packets for dinner through IRCTC-based kitchens, RPF resources and contribution of NGOs,” chief public relations officer of SCR Ch Rakesh said, adding that the social distancing norms and hygiene is being observed during delivery of meals. Among different contributories, RPF is said to have played a major role in food distribution to needy people. “Starting with distribution of food to 5,419 needy people over 74 locations on March 28, the number has increased everyday. At present, about 50,000 people are being provided meals daily on an average by RPF across 300 locations in the country,” Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/railways-cross-30l-mark-in-distribution-of-free-meals/articleshow/75479675.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Delhi||‘Contained’ Delhi residents to be screened thrice in 14 days||NEW DELHI: To prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Thursday directed the district officials to screen all residents living in containment zones at least thrice within 14 days of the issuance of the containment order. The chief secretary also directed the officials to prepare a database of senor citizens and persons having co-morbid or underlying medical conditions for close monitoring, apart from encouraging people to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application and publicising the guidelines of the Ministry of Ayush. The chief secretary directed the officials for micro-level planning and strict compliance with standard operating procedures laid down by the central and Delhi governments in containment zones that have a population of more than 10,000 people. Dev said special measures were required to be taken to check the spread of the coronavirus especially when the number of containment zones had crossed the 100 mark. The chief secretary also added that proper protocol should be followed while screening the residents. “Screening of all residents of containment areas must be carried out at least three times within 14 days of the issue of notification of the containment zone… It should also be ensured that the screening is conducted as per the prescribed protocol and under proper supervision of a doctor/medical team,” the order said. With no vaccine available to treat the infection yet, the chief secretary also directed the officials to “widely publicise” the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Ayush as they might prove to be beneficial for the people to increase their immunity. The self-care guidelines to boost immunity include drinking of warm water, daily practice of Yogasana and Pranayam and meditation, inclusion of turmeric, cumin, coriander and garlic in cooking, chyavanprash and herbal tea or concoction (kadha), nasal application, oil pulling therapy and steam inhalation. While the government-appointed covid warriors’ teams have already started collecting the database of senior citizens, the chief secretary also directed the district officials to identify residents with co-morbidities for close monitoring and surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/contained-residents-to-be-screened-thrice-in-14-days/articleshow/75480638.cms||Atul Mathur
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Nine held for looting alcohol factory in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: With the demand for liquor growing amidst nationwide lockdown, a gang of nine looted a liquor factory in Chittoor district and made away with 110 cases of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL). Incidentally, liquor shops have been the target of thieves and bootleggers even since the lockdown was announced to curb the spread of novel coronavirus. Several policemen and Excise department personnel have been booked for aiding liquor thefts. According to Chittoor DSP K Eswar Reddy, 110 cases of IMFL liquor bottles were stolen from Sri Krishna Enterprises, a liquor factory, near Chittoor town on April 25. Police arrested a nine-member gang involved in the theft and blackmarketing of liquor. The gang members have been identified as H Neela Draksha (24), R Saravana (32), G Venkatesh (27), K Ashok (20), H Jayaram (28), J Manoj (20), R Gopinath (23), G Hareesh (23) and V Mani (20). Eswar Reddy said as part of the investigation Chittoor police kept a tab on the movement of people near the liquor factory. They arrested five people on Thursday and they had confessed to have stolen the liquor bottles. The accused told the police that due to high demand for liquor in view of the lockdown, they were stealing liquor bottles and selling them at exorbitant rates. Following their confession, police arrested four more persons of the gang at Kanipakkam bypass road and seized Rs 3.07 lakh from them .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/9-held-for-looting-alcohol-factory/articleshow/75479688.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 1, 2020||Delhi||How DJB is ensuring your taps don’t run dry||NEW DELHI: Amid the novel coronavirus pandemic and the rising summer temperatures, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) is facing the challenge of meeting the increasing water demand along with its disinfection operation. The summer action plan prepared by the water utility is aimed at meeting the peak production of 925 million gallons per day (MGD). To increase its potable water output, DJB will be making operational an additional 254 water extraction points. While 70 new pumps will come up at Palla, 37 will be deployed at Narela and the rest will be distributed across the city in 33 assembly constituencies. A senior DJB official said 4,910 tubewells would be made operational. “Of the 925 MGD peak production, 86 MGD will be sourced from underground resources,” he added. The water utility has also estimated to increase its water storage capacity by around 12 million gallons by May as underground reservoirs in West Kamal Vihar, Sonia Vihar, Mahipalpur and Mundka will become operational by then. For areas not covered under the distribution network, DJB will be running 1,077 tankers till July to meet the demand of residents. “We have 250 tankers, while the rest will be hired,” the official said. Official admitted that managing social distancing while distributing water through tankers is going to be a major challenge, but guidelines are being passed for it. Fights among residents in water-stressed colonies are not uncommon and several people have lost their lives in the past while filling water from tankers. DJB has listed 8,738 vulnerable points where tankers will be used to supply water during these three months. “The locations of daily supply points can be much higher depending upon the requirement. The schedule will be made available on the DJB website, which is updated in consultation with MLAs,” the action plan stated. It added that 117 water ATMs and e-piaos are being made operational at strategic water-stressed locations. “During this period, DJB will also ensure constant water supply to 4.6 lakh people living in the 100-odd containment zones. We are also carrying out disinfection drives in the affected areas,” an official said. Delhi already has an increasing water demand-supply gap of 300 MGD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-djb-is-ensuring-your-taps-dont-run-dry/articleshow/75481537.cms||Paras Singh
May 1, 2020||Business||Gold demand down by 36% in Q1 of CY 2020||Chennai: At the back of high gold prices and market volatility in the end of the quarter because of Covid-led lockdown, demand for the precious metal in India for Q1 of CY 2020 down by 36% at 101.9 ton as compared to the 159 ton demand for the same period in 2019. By value, it stood at Rs 37,580 crores, with a drop of 20% in comparison with Q1 2019 that saw gold demand worth Rs 47,000 crores. Volatile prices and economic uncertainty led to a drop in jewellery demand by 41% at 73.9 ton as compared to 125.4 ton in the corresponding period of the previous year. “The fall was due to a combination of factors like volatile prices, economic uncertainties and towards the end of the quarter, severe logistical freeze following lockdown. Wedding demand during the first few weeks of the quarter did appear to bring in some seasonal cheer,” said PR Somasundaram, MD India, World Gold Council. Life-time high prices of gold expectedly increased recycling by 16%. Recycling and collateralized loans against gold may be expected to grow exponentially in the next few quarters as the immediate economic impact of the lockdown becomes evident, he added. Data shows that the total gold recycled in India was 18.5 ton, up by 16% yoy, from 16.1 ton. However, even as the gold demand has dropped for over 3 quarters now, the council is unable to assess the expected demand for the upcoming year. “A digital transformation of the industry could be a positive outcome of the current crisis, as social distancing, contact-less payments and other behavioural necessities challenge earlier forms of consumer engagement. We are unable to quantify the impact on full year demand as we do not have sight of several critical factors at play under current circumstances,” added Somasundaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-demand-down-by-36-in-q1-of-cy-2020/articleshow/75477168.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Special parcel trains to help mango traders move produce||Hyderabad: Special parcel trains started by the South Central Railway (SCR), has come as a relief for mango growers and traders from the two Telugu states, who were caught in a spot owing to lack of transportation during the lockdown. “Several stations in the AP and Telangana, have seen a demand to transport the summer fruit to destinations towards the north, east and western parts of the country,” said Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR. “With the mango season taking off, transportation demand is picking up for markets like Howrah, Agra Cantt, Ludhiana, Nagpur and Delhi.” The mangoes will be carried from Mancherial in Telanagana and Krishna district in AP. Around 140 tonnes of mangoes have already been loaded and the division is ready to operate as many trains as needed,officials informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-parcel-trains-to-help-mango-traders-move-produce/articleshow/75480649.cms||Arya Sharan
May 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: This Annapurna is living up to her name by feeding the needy||VIJAYAWADA: Margam Lakshmi Annapurna proved that a common person can become a hero by helping others during the lockdown. Lakshmi Annapurna, who is known for cleaning walls and streets as part of service done by Margam foundation, extended help to 17,000 people in the city who were in need of help during the Covid-19 crisis. Annapurna says that the thought of the migrant workers going hungry drove her to serve them during the lockdown. “Middle-class and daily wagers are the ultimate sufferers of the lockdown. I initially started serving cooked meal to around 1,200 persons per day and served a total of 15,000 meals in the first week of lockdown,” Annapurna said. Most voluntary organisations focused on prime areas in the city. But the most backward groups residing in the outskirts of the city outskirts are still waiting for support and we decided to help those families though it is tough, she said. “Transgender people residing in Rajarajeswaripet approached me for help and we gave then around 125 grocery kits. Similarly, people who usually sell safety pins and naphthalene balls on city roads were starving at Kandrika area and we gave them the necessary groceries,” Annapurna said. We usually see stray cows at vegetable markets across the city, they have been starving for weeks as vegetable markets remained closed. So we have started feeding them regularly, she added. “I started service with my family’s support during the lockdown period and many people with kind hearts supported us in this journey and contributed for the kits. Getting necessary volunteers for the service activity was tough as many hesitated to come out due to the fear of coronavirus,” Annapurna added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/this-annapurna-is-living-up-to-her-name-by-feeding-the-needy/articleshow/75479700.cms||Venu Lanka
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Leopard spotted in Gosainganj||LUCKNOW: A leopard was spotted hiding in a culvert under the Kisan Path in Noorpur village under Gosainganj police station on Thursday night. Villagers who spotted the leopard informed police. A police team arrived and blocked the opening of the culvert and then informed forest officials. At around 9.35pm, a villager Mohit Kumar spotted the leopard near the culvert and ran for his life. Kumar told villagers who later informed the police on UP 112. The forest officials tried to tame the feline for several hours but failed in every attempt. Assistant commissioner of police, Mohanlalganj, Sanjeev Sinha said a huge number of villagers had gathered around the culvert while our first priority was to cordon off the area. The forest team put a net on the end of the culvert so that whenever the feline comes out, it gets trapped in. Zoo director R K Singh told TOI, “The leopard is stuck deep inside the culvert and will take time to come out. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/leopard-spotted-in-gosainganj/articleshow/75481514.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||NIELI T picked as lead centre for robotics||Aurangabad: The National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), Aurangabad, has been selected as the lead recourse centre (Lead RC) for robotics process automation under FutureSkills Prime project by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) run by the Centre. Also, NIELIT Aurangabad has been selected for other three technologies as Co-lead RC — internet of things, 3D printing and additive manufacturing, and social mobile analytics and cloud computing. “NIELIT, under the aegis of MeitY, is implementing the FutureSkills Prime project. It aims to create an up-skilling and re-skilling ecosystem in emerging and futuristic technologies to facilitate continuous enhancement of skills as well as knowledge of professionals in line with their aspirations and aptitude. The programme also aims to create awareness amongst government/ PSU employees about the impact of evolving technological ecosystem and train them with relevant skill sets,” NIELIT director Sanjeev Gupta said on Thursday. Gupta said it would be a unique opportunity for local students to work in emerging areas like robotics, IoT, 3D-printing and SMAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nieli-t-picked-as-lead-centre-for-robotics/articleshow/75479703.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||No strain in relations with Gulf countries, says MEA||NEW DELHI: India’s relations with the Gulf countries remain unimpaired, the government said, responding to concerns that allegations of Islamophobia in the country could adversely affect ties with this region. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday that PM Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar have been constantly in touch with the leaders of these countries. “Much of what you see is propaganda by a third party. Stray tweets cannot be used to portray relationship,” Srivastava said. A social media storm last week alleging widespread mistreatment of Muslim minorities in India has been attributed to trolls and bots run out of Pakistan. Srivastava said India has committed to the Gulf leaders that food and other commodities would be seamlessly supplied to these countries, particularly during the Ramzan. He said requests have also been made by some of these nations for rapid response teams (RRTs) to help them deal with the coronavirus outbreak. India has sent RRTs to Kuwait and the Maldives. On reports that Oman wanted to move out foreigners out and give jobs to locals, Srivastava said this has been a long-standing policy, but there is recognition that the role of Indian diaspora has been to create prosperity. “The policy of moving jobs to Omanis is not new, and doesn’t target Indians in any way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-strain-in-relations-with-gulf-countries-says-mea/articleshow/75482551.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Major relaxations unlikely in Delhi for some more time||NEW DELHI: With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to rise, officials said Delhi might not get any major relaxations from the lockdown for some more time. Sources said the steady increase in cases because of several asymptomatic patients and no clear source of infection emerging in the last few days present a grim picture. Any relaxation in the lockdown protocol could worsen the situation. The second phase of lockdown is getting over on May 3 and people are looking forward to some relaxation after six weeks of staying indoors. However, Delhi government has asked top bureaucrats to give feedback if any relaxation can be offered in the capital. Officials of Delhi Disaster Management Authority and other nodal departments, apart from district officials, have been asked to present a clear picture on the spread of the virus and areas where the lockdown protocol could be relaxed a bit. A senior official, however, said Delhi government will wait for the Centre to unveil its plan before taking a decision. Another official said the government may start some economic activities since its coffers are empty right now, but they will be completely away from the containment zones. “No activity is likely to be allowed in containment and buffer zones,” the official added. While the Union home ministry had issued revised guidelines for the second phase of the lockdown giving relaxation in certain sectors, the AAP government had decided to continue with the same strict rules as imposed in the first phase. However, Delhi government earlier this week allowed self-employed plumbers, electricians and water purifier mechanics to operate, besides opening of standalone shops in residential areas. Sources said the government may ask officials of some key departments to start reporting to work soon. A senior official said some top bureaucrats have already started working on non-Covid projects and may need staff to work on schemes, policies and projects that are likely to be launched after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/major-relaxations-unlikely-in-city-for-some-more-time/articleshow/75480659.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Advocate fights labour cases for free in Bagalkot||BAGALKOT: This 70-year-old advocate in Jamakhandi, Bagalkot district, has won accolades for taking up labour cases for free. Ravindra Hanlingali strives to provide justice to the working class by working for the implementation of minimum salary, job security, bonus and gratuity and compensation for accident for workers in the sugar, cement and handloom industry in the twin districts of Vijayapura and Bagalkot. He has also been instrumental in setting up several labour organisations. In 1979, he successfully fought the case of 16 workers, who were arrested for the strike in Sameervadi sugar factory. Mallikarjun Heggalagi, who was labour association president of the factory then, remembers Ravindra’s great help. “He didn’t charge our co-workers and gave justice by reinstating labourers in the factory. He worked for the cause of beedi workers in Jamakhandi where once existed a large number of manufacturing units. Ravindra started legal practice in 1976 at the Jamakhandi court. It was trade union leader MS Krishnan from Bengaluru who inspired him to take up labour cases for free. “When Krishnan visited Jamakhandi while I started my practice, he advised me to do free legal service for the working class. Till day, I have been dedicated to the cause,” he said. In 1986, Ravindra got the job of public prosecutor in Jamakhandi, but declined the offer as per the suggestion of his guru, Krishnan. Ravindra also takes up general law and land disputes cases and takes fee without concession in these assignments. He has participated in some international workers’ conferences and guiding various labour organisations as their legal advisor. Ravindra has also authored books on labour issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/advocate-fights-labour-cases-for-free/articleshow/75479170.cms||Sushilendra T Naik
May 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Private bus operators charging exorbitant rates for May 4 tickets in Karnataka||BENGALURU: While Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is yet to commence online booking for post May 3 journeys, private bus operators are taking advantage of the situation to fleece passengers. Some bus operators are charging up to Rs 8,500 per ticket from Bengaluru to places like Belagavi, Hubballi and Mumbai for May 4 tickets. This is almost four times the actual fare and also more than flight charges during normal time. Bus operators are also charging up to Rs 5,400 to Hyderabad. Fares to other sectors are also above Rs 3,000 per ticket (see box). This is also probably for the first time that private operators are charging this much. Earlier, bus fares surged for April 15. The expectation was that the Centre would lift the lockdown, which, however, was extended to May 3. Sources say the demand has gone up after the Union home ministry on Wednesday issued a direction to all states to facilitate inter-state movement of stranded people, including migrant workers and students. With no clarity on resumption of rail and flight services, many passengers are hoping that road transport will be allowed after May 3. However, KSRTC officials said they will renew online bookings after permission from the state government. “If we start online bookings now, then there will be an impression among the public that the lockdown may also be lifted,” said a senior KSRTC official. Many bus operators say they have been struggling for nearly two months due to the nationwide lockdown. KT Rajshekhar, chairman of Bus Operators Confederation of India said: “We will be allowed to operate only half the capacity after the lockdown to ensure social-distancing and there is no guarantee passengers will travel in this situation. There is also no surety of return passengers. We are paying hefty taxes but there has been no tax relief from the government.” “We are hoping KSRTC will restart bookings and operate adequate number of buses to ferry stranded people to their hometowns. We cannot afford to pay three-four times the normal fare,” said Vishal Rao, a student from Hyderabad. Transport department officials said they will look into the fares charged by private operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-bus-operators-charging-exorbitant-rates-for-may-4-tickets/articleshow/75480527.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Businesses resume in Dharwad, albeit partially||Dharwad: The categorisation of Dharwad under the list of districts in the ‘orange’ zone has prompted the government authorities to relax rules for recommencement of businesses. For more than five weeks, financial activities had more or less completely ground to a halt in the district. On Thursday, signs of return to normalcy started to show with a partial revival in commercial activities. Dharwad district administration allowing stores and shops dealing in automobile spare parts, fertilisers, seeds, stationery and construction materials to restart operations. The resumption of financial activities, however, began on a sedate note, with police personnel being on hand to regulate the crowd, and prevent crowding. Many residents in the twin cities stepped out to purchase various items including electrical equipment and stationery material for their children, while cops ensured that social distancing was maintained, and not allowing those without protective gear to enter shops. Flour and oil mills, several small grocery stores that had remained shut for the past five weeks, and several other outlets that mostly deal with the repair of various household accessories opened their shutters on Thursday. However, most of the owners believe that it will take a considerable length of time for them to resume full-fledged operations. Meanwhile, with the district administration allowing takeaways from restaurants, staff of various eateries could be seen stocking up on grains and provisions. On the other hand, with the district receiving a spell of pre-monsoon rain, sowing activity is set to begin in the earnest soon, and farmers, most of whom had stayed in their villages, visited the nearest towns to purchase seeds and fertilisers. The relaxation for businesses, however, is partial. All stores can operate only on four days – Monday to Thursday – between 10am and 6pm. Police, meanwhile, reiterated that Section 144 of the CrPC would continue to be in force and assembly of more than five people remained prohibited. ePasses in Dharwad Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Thursday said that services offered by 12 government departments - 72 services in all - could be availed of by the people online. To this end, the district administration has launched the website: www.supportdharwad.in, where people can seek ePasses. Residents, Deepa said, could apply for the ePass for medical emergencies, funeral services, inter-district and inter-state transport of agricultural produce among other things. All that residents need to do to get the pass is submit the required documents online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/businesses-resume-in-dharwad-albeit-partially/articleshow/75478969.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 scare halts Metro work on Bannerghatta Road||Bengaluru: Work at a Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd site on Bannerghatta Road was suspended on Thursday after a labourer was suspected to have contracted Covid-19. Namma Metro work had resumed only a few days ago after the government eased lockdown restrictions. BMRCL sources said the migrant labourer, employed at their site on Bannerghatta Road (Gottigere-Swagath Road Cross elevated section of Phase 2), showed symptoms of Covid-19. “He was suffering from high fever and fatigue, which caused panic among other employees. Work was immediately suspended and he was taken to a hospital,” said a source. BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth said work on the section where the man was working was halted as a precautionary measure. “He tested negative for Covid-19. The work will resume on Friday,” he said. The corporation had on April 24 stated it has restarted Metro work, which was suspended since March 22 due to the nationwide lockdown. As many as 2,051 migrant labourers are working at 73 Metro sites across the city. They include Gottigere-Swagath Road Cross elevated section, Jayadeva flyover, Vellara Junction-Pottery Town underground section, Yelachenahalli-Anjanapura Township, Mysuru Road-Kengeri section and RV Road-Bommasandra. BMRCL officials said they have intensified precautionary steps after the incident. “We have asked contractors to ensure social distancing and conduct basic health checks and also to immediately alert higher-ups if any worker shows Covid-19 symptoms,” said an official. Officials said work is progressing in stages. “There is no shortage of raw material as of now since contractors are supposed to keep stocks for three to six months. The supply chain will slowly get back to normal after the lockdown is lifted,” said an official. BMRCL sources said they ensured contractors paid salaries of migrant workers. However, there are complaints that roofing workers on Kengeri and Kanakapura stretches have not been paid by sub-contractors yet. Officials said they will look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-scare-halts-metro-work-on-bannerghatta-road/articleshow/75479913.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Guest labourers protest, booked||Malappuram: A group of guest labourers in Chattiparamba near Malappuram town staged a protest demanding the government to allow them to return to their home states, on Thursday morning. Around 100 guest labourers from different states including Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, etc, who are staying in a guest labourers’ camp near Chattiparamba took part in a protest rally held around 9am. Malappuram police took several protesters into custody. They were released after recording detailed statements. According to police, there were rumours that government has decided to take the guest labourers back to their home states, in the backdrop of the fresh order of Union government allowing movement of labourers, students and tourists who are stranded in different parts of the country. Malappuram deputy superintendent of police, Jaleel Thotathil said that police will investigate whether there was any external intervention or attempt to rope in protesters. “We registered a case and will investigate if there is a conspiracy behind the protest. We have identified all the protesters and collected their statements. We have also collected their grievances as written documents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/guest-labourers-protest-booked/articleshow/75478382.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Not registering his scooter lands bizman in a spot||BENGALURU: Businessman Shaik Faziulla, 41, of Shivajinagar, does not know whether he should consider himself lucky or not. His scooter has been recovered four months after it was stolen though he had neither filed a complaint nor had registered it. He’ll get his scooter back only after police ascertain he’s in no way linked to the two muggers from whom the vehicle was seized. Faziulla had purchased the scooter in his wife’s name but did not register it owing to monetary constraints. It was stolen in December 2019 from outside a hotel in Shivajinagar where he had parked it. However, on April 26, he received a call from Commercial Street police, asking him to identify a scooter they had recovered from two robbers who were shot at and injured in an encounter. Faziulla identified the two-wheeler used by them to commit the crime as his. “Mohammed Rizwan, 25, of Shivajinagar and Parvez Ahmed, 24, of DJ Halli were shot at and injured after they attacked police near Kalpalli crematorium. We recovered a two-wheeler without a licence plate from them. Initially, we suspected the accused had removed the number plate. During questioning, they confessed to having lifted it in December 2019,” police said. The two were wanted in several cases, including murder, attempt to murder and mugging. Faziulla will now have to prove that he is not involved with the muggers. “Faziulla has filed a complaint about his two-wheeler theft. So far, we don’t see any connection between Faziulla and the robbers. If we don’t find any evidence against Faziulla, we will give him a clean chit. Then, he must visit the RTO, explain the reasons for not registering the vehicle and pay fine before getting it back,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/not-registering-his-scooter-lands-bizman-in-a-spot/articleshow/75479934.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bengaluru||A stickler for time, Rishi Kapoor stole many hearts with his singing||BENGALURU: The last time Rishi Kapoor visited Bengaluru, he stole hearts singing the number that launched him as the eternal romantic hero — Main Shayar Toh Nahin. Kapoor sang the entire song to a packed audience that came to listen to him at the 56th Bengaluru Ganesh Utsava (BGU) in September 2018. Nandish SM, managing trustee of BGU, remembers that night like it happened yesterday. “I think it was his last public appearance, in Bengaluru at least, because he flew to New York for his cancer treatment barely four to five days after this show,” Nandish said, adding: “On the day of the show, he came directly to the pandal and was happy with the arrangements we’d made.” Kapoor’s showmanship, he said, was evident. “When I tried to explain what we planned to do, he reassured me saying, ‘Arre yaar, chod na, just put me on stage and see what I do.’ He was on a roll,” said Nandish, before sharing his favourite memory from that evening. “Singer Vijay Prakash who was the compère asked Rishi Kapoor to sing a line from Main Shayar Toh Nahin. He took us aback when he sang the entire song!” Nandish added that Kapoor loved it when he was feted with a Mysuru pete and was even more thrilled when a group of 50 women went on stage and handed him roses one by one. Impressed one and allKapoor had come to Bengaluru in January 2017 to take part in a fundraiser organised by Rotary District 3190. The event celebrated music from the actor’s films. “He shared stories and trivia before every song,” said Rotarian Vijay Saraf, who was co-chairman for the show. What he liked most about the actor was his punctuality. “He had a radio interview at 8am, but we thought we would have to postpone it because he’d had a late night. Guess what, the next day at 7.55am, he was all ready and knocking at my door. On the evening of the show, he arrived at the venue at 6.45pm, 15 minutes before we were to start.” At Times Litfest Kapoor attended the third edition of Times Litfest in 2017 to talk about his autobiography, Khullam Khulla: Rishi Kapoor Uncensored.  “I wrote my autobiography not as an exercise to fan my ego. People have a wrong perception about children of actors and I wrote the book to dispel the notion that there’s nepotism in cinema. As a child of a star, you may get a break but you have got to work hard after that to find your feet. I may have got my big break with Bobby but for the next 25 years, I had to struggle to survive in the industry!” Kapoor had said. On what it meant to belong to India’s first family of films, his response was: “We are probably the only family in the world that has four generations continuing to work in films. We live eat, breathe and sleep cinema.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-stickler-for-time-rishi-kapoorstole-many-hearts-with-his-singing/articleshow/75480500.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown flouted every 4th hour in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: From an eatery selling samosa to a youth organising a get-together outside a mall, someone violated the lockdown every fourth hour in the city over the past 30 days since March 25, shows police data. In fact, 63 vehicles were penalised every hour under the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act and a vehicle was seized every 90 minutes for violation. According to official figures, 240 FIRs for lockdown violations were lodged by police from March 25 to April 29. Most were booked for disobeying government orders and putting the life of others in danger by an act that could spread infection. During the same period, 54,687 vehicles were booked and 584 seized. The vehicle drivers were challaned for violations like driving without helmet/seat belt and without licence, among other offences. “We warn and let go most violators and book only those who show complete disregard,” said a senior officer. Commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said, “We expect that not even a single vehicle is visible on the roads, some places have done well but some need to be improved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-flouted-every-4th-hr-in-city/articleshow/75481522.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Run special trains for workers: TISS||HYDERABAD: While the Centre’s move to allow thousands of migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims to return home has come as a major relief, researchers at TISS’s Public Policy and Governance have come up with a suggestion to transport them in special trains. In a report ‘Transport grid for migrants’ mobility concerns,’ the researchers recommended to government to launch an inter-state special train service. The report gains significance in the wake of thousands of migrant workers walking back to their native places.  “Select rail stations (points of embarkation) have been identified in each current place of work from where these migrant workers will board the train to come back to their home state. Similarly, select railway stations have been identified in the native state of the migrant workers where the workers will disembark. Other institutions of the state governments should support the transport grid for quarantine and check people at the point of disembarkation,” the report said. For migrant labourers, four south Indian states, Maharashtra and Gujarat are origin states, while Rajasthan, MP, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar and UP are destination states, researchers said. Delhi, Uttarkhand and Punjab are both origin and destination states. They further said state transport buses should be used to transport the disembarked workers.  “The intersection of demand and supply may be used to realise optimal utilisation of infrastructure on one hand and allowing movement of workers on the other,” researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/run-special-trains-for-workers-tiss/articleshow/75480666.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Rat-tled: Fear gnaws at traders about what lies behind||NEW DELHI: Traders in old Delhi, Connaught Place and other commercial areas expect a unique problem once the lockdown is lifted. They fear they will find their stocks, documents and other stuff ravaged by rats during the lengthy lockdown. In Chandni Chowk, where the main road has been dug up as part of the area’s redevelopment, traders, aware of the possibility from experience, said the chances of rats invading their shops were high. Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, pointed out, “Our area and infrastructure here are very old. The pavements and central verge have become shelters for rats. Now that the central verge has been dismantled, the rats are out on roads. They are entering the shops now. Recently, the owner of a suitcase shop found his stocks damaged by the rodents. They damaged materials in my fabric shop too.” To rid the market of the problem, the traders urged the authorities to quickly relay the pavement with cement tiles on both sides of Chandni Chowk. A Daryaganj businessman said, “More than anything else, I am worried about my paper stock being ruined by rodents that have probably managed to invade the shops, close for over a month now. As soon as the situation improves, the first thing I am going to do is to get pesticide treatment for my shop.” At Connaught Place too, there are similar apprehensions. Atul Bhargava, president, New Delhi Traders Association, said, “There are 200-250 restaurants in the area. Though most of them have installed grease traps and kitchen waste systems, some leftovers do get into sewers. People also dump eatable waste in bins outside and these attract rats, especially at night. With the eateries and shops closed, the rodents can enter shops and damage materials inside.” The situation is similar in Khan Market, where even before the lockdown, traders had to spray rodenticides, sometimes with help of NDMC, to keep vermin at bay. “There are no basement in our shops and so mice and even mongooses have entered the stores through holes in the pavement,” said Sanjeev Mehra of the market association. “I have shared with NDMC videos of the rear of my shop showing the holes made by the rodents. After 40 days of closure, god knows what our shops are like.” Naresh Gupta, president of Delhi Grain Merchant Association at Anaj Mandi, said traders were paying special attention to prevention of stock damage by rats. “Earlier, the market was open for 18-20 hours a day, but these days we aren’t allowed to operate beyond 3pm,” Gupta said. “If the roads are empty, the rodents come out. They even enter the shops. We have asked our employees to regularly check the condition of the stocked foodgrain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rat-tled-fear-gnaws-at-traders-about-what-lies-behind/articleshow/75480687.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Countries check ratings before giving stimulus||Hyderabad: At a time when governments across the world are torn between lives and livelihood, a major factor they are considering before injecting an economic stimulus is sovereign credit rating, which is an assessment of the creditworthiness of a country by rating agencies. As per a paper titled ‘Covid-19, Fiscal Stimulus and Credit Ratings’ — co-authored by ISB faculty Shekhar Tomar along with Anuragh Balajee and Gautham Udupa of Mumbai-based Centre for Advanced Financial Research and Learning (CAFRAL) — countries with lower ratings announced 0.3 percentage points lower fiscal stimulus (as a percentage of their GDP) and also delayed their fiscal stimulus by an average of 1.7 days. The researchers identified 22 most vulnerable countries based on their ratings and stringency, and India figured in the charts along with Russia, South Africa, Vietnam and Indonesia. “…We ﬁnd countries that are constrained by credit ratings are unable to spend. In contrast, others such as Saudi Arabia have already spent signiﬁcant amounts, but may also face debt overhang problems in the future… The risk of credit rating downgrade can have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the capability of a country to raise resources to ﬁght Covid-19,” it said. In its sample of 116 countries, only 67 had declared a stimulus till April 16, 2020. According to the paper, 1% higher stringency resulted in 0.11 percentage points higher ﬁscal spending and one-level upgrade in credit rating increased ﬁscal stimulus by 0.3 percentage points of GDP. The paper recommends that the countries that are vulnerable might need external support in terms of long-term loans from multilateral institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) at low-interest rates. “If each of these countries receives 1% of their GDP as loans, it will amount to a total of $87 billion. Thus, an international emergency ﬁnance package can help bridge the funding gap for these countries,” it said. The sample only includes those countries that have imposed higher stringency and provided low ﬁscal stimulus. So, it excludes those vulnerable countries that might not have imposed any stringency measures fearing economic slowdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/countries-check-ratings-before-giving-stimulus/articleshow/75480672.cms||Swati Rathor
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaint to SHRC over traffic cops stopping new mum||Hyderabad: A resident of Old City shot a complaint to State Human Rights commission on Wednesday against the traffic police, days after a woman who was travelling with her newborn baby in a government ambulance was stopped by the cops. SHRC on Thursday said the matter will be taken up by it. The incident took place on April 21, a woman from Vikarabad district was returning home in a government ambulance from Government Maternity Hospital, Sultan Bazar. “The mother and the child were stopped by traffic cops for hours for no reason at Madina Junction. ACP (Traffic) Naganna also behaved rudely,” said T Uma Mahendra, a BJP leader from Charminar and resident of Peltaburj. The petitioner who found out about the incident on social media approached the SHRC. According to Hyderabad traffic police, the ambulance was stopped after officials on duty noticed eight people travelling in the vehicle. “The officials noticed eight people travelling together in the ambulance, without following social distancing norms or wearing masks for protection,” said Anil Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Traffic, Hyderabad. “They were not detained for hours, only for a few minutes. The officer counselled them and let them go,” added the Additional CP (Traffic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-to-shrc-over-traffic-cops-stopping-new-mum/articleshow/75480661.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Transit centres and med facilities at Wayanad checkposts||Kozhikode: Transit centres and transit hospitals (screening centres) will be set up at border checkposts of Muthanga, Bavali and Thaloor in Wayanad to facilitate the return of people from other states after Covid- 19 lockdown. Wayanad collector Adeela Abdulla said that the facilities would enable screening of persons who enter the district from other states for Covid-19 symptoms. Wayanad shares borders with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile in a major relief to the district which has not reported any new Covid-19 case since March 30, the results of all the 170 augmented samples collected from across the district tested negative. The collector said that it has been noticed that street hawkers have started selling products making use of Covid-19 relaxations and added that action will be taken against those engaged in the activity as the relaxation is applicable only to shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act. MP arranges 20,000kg rice for community kitchens Meanwhile Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan handed over 20,000kg of rice to community kitchens run by local bodies in Kozhikode parliamentary constituency. The consignment of 10,000 kg of rice, meant to be distributed to local bodies, was handed over to Kozhikode collector Sambasiva Rao on Thursday. The rice was arranged with the help of public sector undertaking Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) Another consignment of 10,000kg for distribution to community kitchen in Kozhikode corporation areas was arranged with the help of Indian Oil Corporation was handed over to mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/transit-centres-and-med-facilities-at-wayanad-checkposts/articleshow/75478410.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Stay put, government is making preps to bring you back: CM Yogi Adityanath to migrants||LUCKNOW: As 3,000 migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh returned to UP on Thursday in an exchange facilitated by the two state governments, chief minister Yogi Adityanath appealed to those still stranded not to start walking back as the government was making arrangements to bring them to Uttar Pradesh. The government has also changed its strategy for migrant workers being brought back, deciding that unless someone shows symptoms of Covid-19, they will be sent home and kept in quarantine for 14 days. Till now, anyone coming into the state had to first spend two weeks in institutional quarantine at the district headquarters and then another 14 days in home quarantine. Now, only those who show symptoms or test positive will be kept back while others will be able to return home in two to three days after reaching UP. Acknowledging the danger of asymptomatic cases, officials said that guidelines were being prepared for home quarantine in which a strict watch was to be maintained over all those who had returned. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that committees comprising volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendras, NCC, ASHA and anganwadi workers would be making regular visits to homes of all those who had returned and ensure they adhered to the guidelines. The CM appealed to migrants to wait patiently for the government to help them out. “Continue demonstrating the patience that you have shown till now, do not start walking but contact the government of state you are in. We are in talks with state governments for your safe return,” he said. Awasthi said that talks were on with the Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan governments to send back migrant workers. “On Thursday, 100 buses carrying 3,000 people departed from Madhya Pradesh to reach UP. In turn, UP government sent 40 buses of people who are from MP and were stuck here. The buses coming from MP will reach Jhansi and Prayagraj,” said Awasthi. An official added that UP is expecting the maximum migrants to return from Maharashtra and Delhi. “These places, along with Gujarat, are showing a high number of infections. By the time people from these states return, we hope to have introduced pool testing or rapid testing once they reach the state, especially as most states while sending back people will only carry out thermal scanning and not proper tests,” he said. Awasthi said that anyone who wanted to return to UP would have to report to a quarantine centre where they would be tested before being sent back. The state governments are also preparing exhaustive lists of such persons with names, contact numbers, addresses to be given to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stay-put-govt-is-making-preps-to-bring-you-back-cm-to-migrants/articleshow/75481531.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 1, 2020||Mangaluru||67-yr-old woman third to die of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru: A 67-year-old woman, on ventilator support at Wenlock Hospital passed away due to Covid-19 on Thursday. She is the third patient in Dakshina Kannada to fall prey to the novel coronavirus that has also claimed the lives of two other women from here. All the three victims were from Kasba village in Bantwal town. While the first victim,P-390, died on April 19, her mother-in-law,P-432, succumbed to the disease on April 23. An official communique from the district administration said the 67-year-old woman, a contact of P-432, and her neighbour, were shifted to Wenlock Hospital on April 18, after showing symptoms of cold, cough and fever for four days. They were earlier treated at Bantwal taluk hospital. She was being treated for viral pneumonia after exhibiting signs of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The patient was diabetic and also had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She tested positive on April 20 and was in the ICU since then. The district health authorities said her health condition was unstable, and despite receiving the best medical treatment available, the end came at 5.40pm. The district administration has arranged to conduct her final rites at the Hindu crematorium at Boloor in the MCC limits in the presence of her immediate family. The total active Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada has now dipped to seven. A total of 12 Covid-19 patients have been discharged. After a little over a 19-hour wait from 5pm on April 29, a strong rumour that the 16th resident of Dakshina Kannada had tested positive was confirmed on Thursday. When the state bulletin was released at 12.25pm, the first entry in it read, “P-536, female, Dakshina Kannada, Contact of P-501, designated hospital, Dakshina Kannada”. She was among the 22 positive cases that the state reported since the evening bulletin of April 29. The presence of a positive case in Boloor village was almost confirmed when police on Wednesday evening started preparations to seal specific areas of the village from where P-536, a 58-year-old woman, hailed from. However, the district administration was hamstrung in either confirming or denying it, for they received the report of the woman testing positive, only after minister Suresh Kumar had finished his daily media briefing on the state’s situation, in Bengaluru. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, DUDC, said that the district authorities have clear instructions not to release information prior to it being announced in either the afternoon or evening state bulletin. In the interim, health authorities had shifted P-536, a patient treated for brain TB at First Neuro Hospital and discharged on April 20, to Wenlock Hospital. First Neuro Hospital is a supervised Covid-19 isolation centre. B A Khader Shah, senior assistant director, department of information and public relations, said that the media was after him to get the district administration to release a special bulletin on the Boloor case. Reports of this case had spread like wildfire on social media and police action on ground only fuelled it, he said. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has appointed executive engineer 3 of MSCL as the incident commander for the containment zone in Boloor, which has a population of 640. Dakshina Kannada has recorded 22 positive cases overall. While 16 are residents of this district, four are from Kasaragod in Kerala and one each from Karkala in Udupi and Bhaktal in Uttara Kannada. Out of this, a husband-wife duo from Uppinangady are likely to be discharged either this weekend or early next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/67-yr-old-woman-third-to-die-of-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/75478401.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Now, buy sanitizers at nearby stores||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to relax rules of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act of 1940 to allow those without a drugs licence to sell hand sanitizers to ensure their easy availability. The decision, taken by the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, is valid till June 30, 2020, aims to make sanitizers easily available in medical, general and grocery stores. The move came after the excise department raised the issue of shortage of hand sanitizers, even though there are 40 manufacturing units in UP. “Sanitizers could not be sold by a shop not having a drug licence. With the relaxation, it will be possible for even neighbourhood stores to sell it,” said a senior officer. However, shops selling sanitizers will have to follow certain conditions, including allowing inspection by drug inspectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-buy-sanitizers-at-nearby-stores/articleshow/75481538.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Stuck in labour camps, workers share food, dreams and hopes||Hyderabad: Soon after Maghrib prayers as the sun retires for the day, a sense of calm sets upon the crammed shanties of Nanakramguda’s labour camp – home to over 3,000 migrant workers from across India. Of them, about 60% are practising Muslims. With all of them away from their homes, during this holy month of Ramzan, these men have found support in each other. Every evening, in a heart-warming scene of camaraderie, these men gather in a room to break their roza together, with a modest meal of fruits, murmura and channa. For those few moments, all their worries, heartaches and fears are put on pause. “We pray together and later break our fast together. It makes us miss our families a little less,” said M D Ektarul, a labour contractor from Malda who lives in the same camp. He has 22 workers under him. “We also cook hot meals at 3am, to eat before Fajr prayer. It is usually daal, rice and fish, since most are from West Bengal,” he said. For Mohd Isan Ali, these moments of togetherness help him forget his troubles, albeit briefly. He has been living off money sent from his home in Birbhum. “If all goes well, maybe we can celebrate Eid with our families,” the young migrant worker said – giving words to a hope that everyone at the camp shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stuck-in-labour-camps-workers-share-food-dreams-and-hopes/articleshow/75480694.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Land to remain in waqf purview: HC||Hyderabad: Refusing to remove 294 acres of prime land in Boduppal near Uppal in Hyderabad from the purview of a Waqf notification, Justice P Naveen Rao of Telangana high court has dismissed a batch of writ petitions filed by the alleged owners of some of the plots in this Waqf land. The judge gave two findings in his judgment wherein he made it clear that the current owners cannot derive any strength from the fact that some sale transactions were allowed on these plots in the past. And they cannot challenge the gazette notification identifying the 294 acres as waqf property issued on Feb 9, 1989, after the passage of more than 3 decades now. You were not there in the picture at the time nor did your vendors challenge the notification, the judge said holding a view that challenge to such gazette after 30 years is not maintainable. The petitioners in their pleas contended that Uppal sub-registrar was refusing to register their plots in favor of third parties citing a Feb 2019 prohibitory letter issued by the commissioner of stamps and registrations department. While some of the petitioners claimed that their ancestors have pattas over these plots, some others said that they bought it from their vendors. Waqf Board’s standing counsel said that the subject property is a wakf property and the alleged Occupancy Rights Certificate stated to have been issued in the year 1996 has no legal sanctity. Unless the plots are removed from the gazette notification, they cannot be permitted to be alienated, Justice Naveen Rao said. However, he has made it clear that the petitioners are free to approach an appropriate legal forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-to-remain-in-waqf-purview-hc/articleshow/75480696.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sans major relief package, MSMEs stare at death||HYDERABAD: With lockdown threatening the existence of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), touted as the backbone of the economy, Telangana’s estimated 2.3 million MSMEs, barring those in essential sector like healthcare and food processing, are staring at dire straits. Zero production in past five weeks but all overhead costs have to be borne and salaries paid as per government directives. “Lockdown 1.0 made it difficult for MSMEs to survive and version 2.0 has sounded their death knell. If this continues, 30-40% MSMEs will not reopen,” said Srinivas Garimella, chairman-industrial development committee, FTCCI. Garimella said MSMEs operate on very meagre resources and measures like social distancing and sanitisation will put further strain on liquidity and productivity. “Productivity will shrink and maintenance costs will shoot up, hitting liquidity, which is fuel for MSMEs. Nearly 5-6 months will be a washout,” he said, urging the Centre to announce a Rs 5-6 lakh crore MSME relief package. CII Telangana MSME convenor AVS Reddy said the key to survival is access to affordable finance. “Many MSMEs don’t get loans from banks and those who do, have to pay 11-12% interest as against 5-6% abroad,” he said, adding that MSMEs are also staring at issues pertaining to transportation and raw material availability. Prabhu Raj, GM (south zone), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Union MSME ministry, said: “Around 40-50% micro and small units will face major problems as they have lost income but have to meet statutory obligations. We held discussions with industry and made several recommendations. We are also trying to help MSMEs procure raw material from bulk manufacturers and sell finished goods to government and private players.” The recommendations include payment of 50% salaries of employees from ESI funds and interest free loans equivalent to six months working capital requirements. Industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said while the Centre is expected to announce a major relief package soon,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sans-major-relief-package-msmes-stare-at-death/articleshow/75480675.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||2 lakh migrant workers crossed state borders during lockdown||Hyderabad: Nearly two lakh migrant workers are believed to have crossed the state’s borders on foot, cycle or any available means of transport to return to their respective native states during the 40-day lockdown period. A day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed inter-state movement of people with riders, some migrant workers were spotted walking along national highways. After the MHA’s decision and instructions of TRS government to allow inter-state movement of migrant workers and others stranded, the state has started collecting data of migrant workers working in Telangana through the labour department. According to estimates, over six lakh migrant workers from 24 states have been working on various projects and industrial units in Telangana. “We could collect details of 4.10 lakh migrant workers, who are now in camps, shelters and other locations. Their names, address native states and phone numbers were also collected, which will be shared with respective states. Nearly two lakh people might have crossed state borders for their native places due to long lockdown period,” a senior labour department official said. Of 4.10 lakh migrant workers, the highest, 26%, were from West Bengal, 20% from Jharkhand, 18% from Bihar, 14% from Odisha, while 3% were from Chhattisgarh. Of them, two lakhs migrant labourers were working in Greater Hyderabad and peripheral districts. Though the Centre has allowed movement of migrant workers and the state appointed a state nodal officer, the Telangana government was yet to get any requisition from either the states or migrants. “ The states or respective groups have to make their own transport arrangements,” labour minister Ch Malla Reddy told TOI. Interestingly, the state government has instructed district collectors to discourage the migrants from returning to their respective states. “The district administration should not provide and facilitate transport arrangements to the workers. If they make their own arrangements, the administration should only give transit passes to them. They should not disembark and stay en route in states or cities while travelling,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-lakh-migrant-workers-crossed-state-borders-during-lockdown/articleshow/75480704.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Dog found eating abandoned infant’s body, cops launch search for mom||Nagpur: It was like a scene from a horror movie for the guard working at an apartment in MIDC area on Wednesday afternoon. The guard, Ashish Gahane (27), got the shock of his life when he spotted a dog eating a newly born baby boy in front of the apartment. Gahane soon threw stones at the dog and chased it away before finding the baby in a pool of blood. Cops said the boy was already dead when they found him and had several injuries on the stomach, which was bitten badly. Gahane said, “It had just rained, so everyone was inside their house. I was sitting on the gate of the apartment. I saw a dog bringing something in its mouth from across the road and take it close to a tree near the apartment. I went to see what was happening and saw the dog eating the baby. I chased the dog away throwing stones at it and informed the residents.” Several residents of the area gathered at the spot and informed police control room. Soon, the control room sent a message to MIDC police station following which cops rushed to the spot. Police soon took the body to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Doctors at the hospital told cops that the baby was born after completing full nine months of pregnancy. The body did not have any piece of clothing. Sources said the reason behind the death will be ascertained after the post mortem that was conducted on Thursday. Police are trying to find out from where the dog found the baby and who abandoned it. Cops are also looking at CCTV footage from the area to track down the baby’s mother. MIDC police have registered a case of secretly disposing of dead body of a child against the unidentified accused. Police have also launched an investigation to find out the mother of the baby. It is learnt that there are lots of open spaces in the area where the body was found. The accused could have abandoned the baby anywhere before the dog found it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dog-found-eating-abandoned-infants-body-cops-launch-search-for-mom/articleshow/75481558.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||MHA nod paves way for lakhs of migrants to return home||GANDHINAGAR: According to the estimates of the Gujarat government, more than half of the over ten lakh migrant workers of the state will opt to return to their native places after the Union government gave the green signal for such workers to return to their states. The state government on Thursday appointed a team of 16 IAS and IPS officers to ensure smooth movement of migrant workers and other persons to other states and coordinate the return of persons from Gujarat who are stranded in various parts of the country. According to official figures, a total of 2,360 persons stranded in various parts of the country, have sought assistance and permission to return to Gujarat. Dhananjay Dwivedi, secretary, water supply department and the special nodal officer for ensuring the return of Gujaratis and migrant labourers to their states, said, “ The state government is co-ordinating with various states to ensure that people who have been stranded can return. However, they will have to make their own transport arrangements. We will ensure they reach their respective destinations.” “As far as migrant workers who want to go back, the state government has authorised district collectors to issue travel passes to workers who want to go back after proper medical check-ups. About 10,000 migrant workers from MP and Rajasthan have already been dropped at the borders of these two states. Those from UP, Bihar and Odisha will have to arrange their own vehicles. All the collectors have been asked to issue passes after ensuring the are checked. States will also have to co-ordinate according to the GOI directions.” The official said the government is preparing a database of migrant workers who want to return. “About half the migrant workers in the state may opt to return. The state government has appointed senior IAS and IPS nodal officers for coordinating movement of people to and from different states,” Dwivedi said. People who are stranded in different parts of the country can apply online on the portal https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mha-nod-paves-way-for-lakhs-of-migrants-to-return-home/articleshow/75480827.cms||Kapil Dave
May 1, 2020||Kochi||Church in Thodupuzha gives aid to parishioners||Kottayam: A church in the Idukki district has offered a timely solace to its parishioners who have been struggling to make ends meet in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. St Mary's Jacobite Syrian Church in Thodupuzha has started remitting Rs 2,000 into the accounts of each family in the parish. To date, the church has provided financial aid to 90 of the 215 families in the parish. As gatherings are prohibited due to the lockdown, the members of the managing committee of the church had to hold talks over the phone before arriving at the decision that they believe will support the parishioners, most of whom are farmers and daily-wage workers. Those residing near the church were able to collect the aid directly, informed the church managing committee. The church has confirmed that the aid is not a loan hence it need not be repaid. According to K V Joy, layman trustee, the support was mainly aimed at financially struggling families. The committee identified such families, by shortlisting those without NRIs or members with government jobs. Families that are well off told us to prioritize those that are struggling, which is a good gesture, said Joy. "When we talked to several families we realised that some were in real need of money especially to buy medicine. They were getting support from the government for rice and other food materials. But they needed money for medicine,” said Joy. Rajan Mathai, another layman trustee said that there was hardly any objection from the members of the managing committee when the idea was proposed. "The church should not be for only taking money from its members. It should provide financial aid to its members when they are in need," said Rajan Mathai, adding that nearly fifty percent of the parishioners needed the relief. Former trustee Benny Elias lauded the efforts of his church and urged other churches to emulate their example by helping the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-in-thodupuzha-gives-aid-to-parishioners/articleshow/75478457.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Six atypical deaths at maternity hospital in April leave doctors stunned||HYDERABAD: At least six atypical maternal deaths have been reported at the state-run Government Maternity Hospital in Petlaburj over the last one month alone which has left doctors baffled. In all the six cases, the condition of the patients suddenly deteriorated and despite all attempts they could not be saved (including the patient from Gadwal). While two of the patients were tested for Covid-19 and were negative, the remaining were not tested. A report is being prepared in this regard and a probe is being launched to understand the reason for the atypical deaths. “As of now we are unable to understand the cause of the deaths. They have unusual presentation, like one sudden cardiac failure going from stable to an emergency stage within half an hour. Complications are suddenly rising before surgery and after surgery,” said a doctor. Out of two of the patients who were tested for Covid-19, one woman had come with a throat infection, while the other was the 20-year-old woman from Gadwal who had succumbed after unusual delay experienced in transit and refusal by several hospitals. “Although the tests for Covid-19 were negative, but it is known that the tests can turn out to be negative during the initial days of the infection. Some of these women have come from hotspots and their condition deteriorated, with sudden complications and multiple organ failures which is usually not seen in cases. The presentation is different too. The cases will be analysed at the end of the month to get a better understanding of the reasons,” said an expert from the hospital. “There might be more than the unusual delay and the absence of any medical attention before reaching the hospital might be pushing up these cases. Also the fact that more complicated cases might be turning up at the hospital which would otherwise be going to other hospitals might be a factor, but since we don’t know who is a possible carrier and universal testing is not possible, there might be many patients who might be Covid-19 carriers too,” said Dr Shanta Kumari, president elect Federation of Obstetrician and Gynaecological Society of India FOGSI (20-21).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-atypical-deaths-at-maternity-hospital-in-apr-leave-docs-stunned/articleshow/75480708.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Day after violence, IIT-H remains calm||Hyderabad: A day after violent protests by migrant workers at IIT-Hyderabad, the situation was peaceful at the labourers’ camp abutting the campus. Police kept a watch on the situation but have not made any arrests in the case booked against workers for rioting and damage to public property. On Wednesday, workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, who have been working at the construction site of IIT-H campus in Kandi in Sangareddy district, staged a violent protest demanding salaries and permission to return home. During the discussions held with the workers, district revenue and police officials spoke to representatives of the construction companies and asked them to clear the pending salaries or face appropriate legal action. “The representatives of the companies have agreed to pay salaries within a day,” Sangareddy DSP Sridhar Reddy said. However, Shapoorji-Pallonji Group clarified that they their workers were not part of the agitation on the IIT-H campus and their 800 workers at the project site have been given salaries for the month of March and also provided with facilities at the labour camp. In the FIR registered by police based on a complaint lodged by L&T Labour Colony in-charge Ch Veeraiah, it was mentioned that “about 60 people from L&T Labour Colony and Shapoorji Pallonji Labour Colony went to L&T time office and damaged CCTV cameras, punch machines and window panes. Later, they went to L&T project office and damaged window panes and other articles.”In the FIR, it was further mentioned that, “L&T Labour Colony workers and Shapoorji-Pallonji Colony workers together attacked Sangareddy rural police on the outskirts of Chimnapur village.” Based on the complaint, police registered a case under sections 307, 188 r/w 149 of the IPC and Section 3 of the PDPP Act against the workers of two construction firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/day-after-violence-iit-h-remains-calm/articleshow/75480740.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Lockdown draws wild animals out of forests in Rohilkhand||BAREILLY: Lack of movement and noise due to the lockdown has drawn wild animals out of the forests to human habitation even to areas, never seen before in memory of locals. This was so when a farmer working in his field spotted a leopard in Bareilly's Karimganj village earller this week. As he stared at the animal in disbelief, it slipped away. Later, forest department staff confirmed the presence of the leopard on the basis of its pugmarks. This is not an isolated case in the Rohilkhand forest zone following the lockdown. Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma told TOI, “Apart from leopards and tigers, there have been numerous sightings of hyenas, jackals, deer, jungle cats and crocodiles in human settlements in the last one month. We have rescued many wild animals since the lockdown.” He added, “Following the lockdown, there is hardly any movement on roads. Due to minimum disturbance, wild animals are freely moving about." Divisional forest officer, Bareilly, Bharat Lal, said, “With minimum noise pollution and least interference of humans, wild animals are feeling a change in the environment and venturing out. It is a phenomenon occurring across the country.” According to forest department here, villagers living near the Uttarakhand border under Baheri sub-division of Bareilly district sighted a leopard whose pugmarks were found by foresters. Forest officials suspect that the leopard has now returned to the forest. Similarly, pugmarks of a leopard were found at two different areas in Budaun. Besides, a leopard which strayed from Bareilly to Rampur was rescued by the forest department and shifted to Kanpur zoo, where it succumbed to injuries. Officials said tigers have also been spotted in agriculture fields in Pilibhit. Verma said forest department staff was on the alert and on getting information, immediately goes to the spot to give safe passage to animals so that they return to the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lockdown-draws-wild-animals-out-of-forests-in-rohilkhand/articleshow/75478436.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Man shuttles across Kerala to meet wives during lockdown||MALAPPURAM: It has been found that heedless of quarantine protocols, a Kayamkulam native travelled across the state, shuttling between the houses of his two wives, from Kayamkulam to Nilambur in Malappuram and then back again to Kayamkulam, beating all travel restrictions during the lockdown period. A case has been registered against the man by Kayamkulam police for violating quarantine rules. Police officers in Nilambur said the man had attended Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin in March, and returned to his home in Kalavoor in Kayamkulam. After completing 14 days of quarantine in Kayamkulam, he went to the house of his second wife at Chokkad near Nilambur on April 20, violating the lockdown rules. After local residents informed the police about the person’s arrival in Chokkad, health authorities directed him to be in home quarantine again for 14 days. But violating the quarantine rule, he again returned to Kayamkulam on Monday. Sources said he travelled in goods and private vehicles and managed to reach Kayamkulam. On his return, he had a heated argument with his first wife (who did not know of the existence of the other woman) and he approached police with a complaint against his first wife. It was after a detailed interrogation that the police came to know that he violated quarantine rules and they decided to register a case against him. He was told to stay put at an isolation centre and quarantine himself for a third time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/man-shuttles-across-state-to-meet-wives-during-lockdown/articleshow/75478448.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||67 students, six labourers brought to Pilibhit from Prayagraj||PILIBHIT: Six labourers and as many as 67 students stranded at various hostels in Prayagraj during the lockdown returned to Pilibhit district in two buses on Thursday. The students have been placed under home quarantine for 14 days after their screening was conducted, while the labourers were shifted to a shelter home for the same period. According to chief medical officer (CMO) CM Chaturvedi, who led a team of the health department that conducted screening of all 73 returnees at PWD guest house, no one was found symptomatic for novel coronavirus. “The health department will be monitoring them during their home quarantine period. However, on Friday, we will collect random samples of students’ nasal and throat swabs for testing,” said the CMO. Assistant regional transport officer Amitabh Rai told TOI, “The labourers hail from Tanakpur city in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district. They were working at hotels in Prayagraj. They will be sent back to their homes once their quarantine period is over.” Out of the 67 students, said Rai, 34 belong to Bisalpur city, seven to Puranpur and Madhotanda areas, six to Amaria tehsil and 20 to Pilibhit city. They were preparing for various competitive examinations in Prayagraj, added Rai. Meanwhile, superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit said, “Police have caught 25 migrant labourers, who were on their way to their native villages in Pilibhit district from Bulandshahar on the foot, as soon as they entered the district border.” The arrested labourers were shifted to a shelter home in Pilibhit after the screening, said the SP, adding that none of them showed any preliminary symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/67-students-six-labourers-brought-to-pilibhit-from-prayagraj/articleshow/75478461.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrants undergo Covid test to get rooms||Ahmedabad: On their return after a failed attempt to reach Uttar Pradesh during lockdown, some migrant workers were not allowed inside their residences on Thursday and neighbours insisted that they should come with certificates proving they are Covid-19 negative. This led eight such workers to undergo the test and wait for the result. Four of them spent the day at the Sola Civil Hospital and four others landed in the Civil Hospital at Asarwa. Those whose samples were taken at the Civil Hospital were shifted to quarantine facility at Nikol. Jitendra and Daljit Vishwakarma had a different issue. Their landlord was not ready to give them the room back, which they had surrendered three days ago when they set off for their native place on motorcycles. The vehicles were seized by the authorities on Gujarat-Maharashtra border. “We had to call the police to get the key. Now we are settled here,” Jitendra said. On the governments now readying to facilitate migrant workers reach their natives, Jitendra said, “We do not have anything to do here in this situation. We got the wheat sold in our village to secure money to return. But we could not go. I will not miss any chance to go home.” However, Jitendra still wants to go home on his bike which has been seized by officials in Madhya Pradesh near the state border. “It will be difficult, but I will try to get it released and go to my native on my motorcycle,” he said. Eight of Jitendra’s companions were not lucky enough. They had to go straight to hospitals for Covid-19 tests. “While we were returning yesterday, we got calls from our landlord and neighbours that they would not allow us inside our rooms on return. They are insisting that we should not return, if we do not get medical certificates showing us to be Covid-19 negative,” Ajay Vishwakarma said. He was at Sola Civil Hospital along with Amit, Ravi and Shivam Vishwakarma waiting for test results. Ajay said, “There are people whose landlords are considerate. They got their rooms back in Vadaj, Meghaninagar and Kaligam.” Similarly, Pankaj Vishwakarma and three others were in Nikol’s quarantine facility. “We went to the Civil Hospital for test. They collected our samples and sent us to this quarantine centre. Now they say we will be kept here for 14 days,” Pankaj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrants-undergo-covid-test-to-get-rooms/articleshow/75480825.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Niloufer Hospital nurse’s daughter too gets infected||Hyderabad: Close on the heels of a 32-year-old nurse of Niloufer Hospital testing positive for Covid-19, her six-year-old daughter too contracted the infection and test results confirmed it on Thursday. The nurse tested positive shortly after returning home in Proddutur village in the neighbouring Rangareddy district on Monday. After confirmation, health authorities had placed 12 of her primary contacts from three families, including her husband and two children in the village, under quarantine. Cops had also cordoned off the area in Proddutur where the nurse’s family resides. The nurse told officials that her brother drove her home from Niloufer Hospital. By the time the test result was conveyed to her, she had prepared lunch and fed her two children. Her husband, who drives an auto, also had lunch at home. Samples of the nurse’s two children, her husband and her brother were collected and sent for test two days ago. On Thursday, her six-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19. The test results of three other family members were yet to come, said a police official from Cyberabad. Cops have also confirmed that the test results of the nurse’s two colleagues, who were her primary contacts, came negative. Authorities have become more vigilant as the number of cases continue to rise in the state. Samples of the nurse’s two children, her husband and her brother were collected and sent for test two days ago. On Thursday, her six-year-old daughter tested positive for virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/niloufer-hospital-nurses-daughter-too-gets-infected/articleshow/75480722.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Trichy||14 snakes caught from hosp premises||Thanjavur: An eight-member team from the Endangered Wildlife and Environment Trust has caught 14 snakes, including six venomous varieties, from the premises of the Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur. They handed over all the venomous snakes to the forest department here on Thursday. The hospital, with separate blocks for obstetrics and gynaecology and ophthalmology, has a vast area of empty land, where a large number of wild plants and bushes are grown, sources said. A few patients had noticed snakes around the bushes. Based on the information, district collector M Govinda Rao ordered officials to take steps to clean the hospital premises. The officials engaged a team of eight snake catchers from Endangered Wildlife and Environment Trust. After spending a whole day on Wednesday, the team caught five Russell’s vipers, two rat snakes and three worm snakes. On Thursday, the team caught three more rat snakes and a cobra from the compound, said Sathishkumar, one of the team members. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/14-snakes-caught-from-hosp-premises/articleshow/75480718.cms||---
May 1, 2020||India||Trucks need no separate inter-state passes: Govt||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Thursday asked all states and Union Territories to ensure smooth inter-state movement of trucks and other goods carriers during the lockdown, underlining that no separate passes are required for them to cross state borders. In a letter to all state/UT chief secretaries, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the local authorities must not insist on separate passes for trucks and other goods carriers passing through inter-state borders. “This is essential to maintain supply chain of goods & services in the country,” he stated. All goods traffic is allowed to ply during the lockdown, as per home ministry guidelines issued on April 15. “While this matter has been clarified earlier by letters of April 3 and April 12, it is now re-iterated ... that no separate passes are required for through traffic of trucks and goods carriers, including empty trucks etc,” the home secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trucks-need-no-separate-inter-state-passes-govt/articleshow/75482567.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Advisors at helm, Purvanchal, Bundelkhand development boards all set to get cracking||LUCKNOW: In a fresh push to constitute Bundelkhand and Purvanchal development boards, the state government decided to appoint advisors and conveners to set the process rolling, 18 months after the cabinet nod to form twin boards to fast-track welfare projects in these backward regions. While advisors would be appointed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the convener would be divisional commissioners of Jhansi and Gorakhpur for Bundelkhand and Purvanchal development boards respectively. While Saket Mishra has been appointed advisor to the Purvanchal development board, the key post for the Bundelkhand board is yet to be decided. This was confirmed by the April 29 order issued by Kumar Kamlesh, additional chief secretary, state planning department. The decision to create these crucial posts along with two experts and a special invitee was taken in November last year. The move is seen as BJP government’s effort to expedite development in these socio-economically backward regions even as it gears up for the high-stakes 2022 assembly elections. It also assumes significance in wake of government’s plan to kick-start development in rural areas amid the lockdown. In August last year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had expressed anguish over delay in constitution of the two boards. The Purvanchal development board, covering 28 districts of eastern UP, is likely to be headed by CM along with two vice-chairmen and 11 members. Actor-turned politician Raja Bundela is vice-chairman of Bundelkhand development board, which will straddle seven districts and have a similar structure. The decision to formally appoint members to the boards comes at a time when the state government expedites construction of Purvanchal and Bundelkhand expressways to boost economic activity in the two regions. The boards would coordinate with various departments to provide drinking water, irrigation facilities and raise educational standards. The ambitious project to provide piped water to seven districts of Bundelkhand namely Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Chitrakoot, Banda, Mahoba and Hamirpur has already got the green signal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/advisors-at-helm-purvanchal-bundelkhand-development-boards-all-set-to-get-cracking/articleshow/75481550.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Industries raring to resume operations with fewer staff||TRICHY: Many industries in the central zone are keenly awaiting the consent of the state government to get back to business post May 3 and prepare their factory and employees for Covid-19 preventive protocols. Trichy district administration was in talks with Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (Bhel) to know its readiness to resume operations with limited manpower in the wake of the chief minister’s meeting with collectors. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said the district administration enquired with Bhel about the minimum manpower with which they can run the unit. Sources said even the partial operation of Bhel would require a minimum of 30 ancillary units. “With all proper safety gear and social distancing, we are willing to resume our operation with minimal staff. Ancillary units have already taken up maintenance work, we were given passes,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president, BHEL Small and Medium Industries Association (Bhelsia), said. Fabrication and machining units operating at Thuvakudi, Ariyamangalam and Valavanthankottai are keen to reopen.  A private cement manufacturing unit in Ariyalur district said that if permitted they would operate with 20%-25% of their usual staff strength to resume production. “Our management will gradually scale up production. We are eager to resume and will ensure the safety of our employees,” an official at the cement factory said. Coir pith production units — MSMEs manufacturing an important component of organic farming from coir — said they are awaiting instructions to resume business. “We want to reopen our factory as our employees reside near the factory. We are keen to sell the inventory, which has a demand, and pay wages to our employees,” S Thomas, a coir pith producer from Peravoorani said. District administrations in the central region have already permitted essential industries such as mills and pharmaceutical firms to function. Regarding infrastructure projects, Trichy district administration has already given permission for important projects to continue during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/industries-raring-to-resume-operations-with-fewer-staff/articleshow/75480732.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Civic body to use aerators to filter Kollidam river water||Trichy: The city corporation has installed water treatment system on the Kollidam river bed to eliminate excessive iron content in the water supplied to household in the city. A couple of multiple-tray aerators, established at a cost of Rs 1 crore, will oxidise the water and thereby reduce the iron content and prevent water discolouration. Cauvery river bed with four water heads and Kollidam river bed with six water heads together supply 135 MLD of drinking water per day to the city. Residents being supplied with water drawn from Kollidam, particularly from Ponmalai zone, were complaining about sediments and change in colour of the potable water. The civic body in a study found out that the water drawn from collector wells I and II on Kollidam had high iron content. Studying the solution provided by Coimbatore municipal corporation for a similar condition, the urban local body proposed to establish multiple-tray aerators to oxidise the water before supplying to the households. Water drawn from the Kollidam river bed will flow through two fountain-like structures with diameters of 12m and installed at a height of 15ft from the ground level from Kollidam bed. “The oxidisation process happens when the water comes into contact with the air and the excessive iron content will be removed. The facility will function round the clock,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. Though the aerators will remain exposed, officials said that the external weather will not affect the water quality. Since the structures are 15ft height above the ground, neither animals nor humans can stray inside. “As the trial run was successful, we expedited the commissioning so that people will avail quality drinking water during the summer,” the official added. Around 55 Over Head Tanks (OHTs) will be supplied the water oxidised through the multiple-tray aerators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-to-use-aerators-to-filter-kollidam-river-water/articleshow/75480729.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||3.5L sign up with Norka for return||Thiruvananthapuram: The number of persons registering with the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (Norka) department to return to the state in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has crossed 3.5 lakh, with the majority, as expected, from Gulf countries. Close to one lakh Malayalis stranded in other Indian states have also registered with Norka for a journey back to the state. Disclosing the numbers, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state has initiated procedures to hand over the list from 201 countries to the central government and respective Indian embassies “so that a plan can be chalked out by the Centre to bring them back on a priority basis.” Of the 3,53,468 applicants, 1,53,660 are based in UAE and 47,268 in Saudi Arabia. They also include 2,112 from the UK, 1,895 from the US and 1,764 from Ukraine. As many as 94,483 Malayalis have registered from other states, after Norka opened the online registration link on Wednesday evening, and among them are 30,576 from Karnataka, 29,181 from Tamil Nadu and 13,113 from Maharashtra. Briefing the media on Thursday, the CM said the opportunity shouldn’t be used by Malayalis residing in other states to visit relatives. “Priority will be given to those were on a short visit for various reasons, inclduing those who got trapped, pregnant women, elderly and students,” he said. Among those who have registeed include 3,864 from Telangana, 2,816 from Andhra Pradesh, 2,690 from Gujarat, 2,527 from Delhi, 1,813 from Uttar Pradesh, 1,671 from Madhya Pradesh and 860 from Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Norka has extended the deadline for submission of applications for the immediate financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each to deserving NRKs till May 5. The beneficiaries include NRKs with valid passport and job visa who arrived from their resident country on or after January 1 and who were unable to return to their resident countries due to the lockdown, and those whose job visa expired during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-5l-sign-up-with-norka-for-return/articleshow/75478489.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Recalling Rishi Kapoor’s tryst with Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The news of legendary actor Rishi Kapoor’s death after a battle with cancer plunged the entire nation in grief including several people in Uttarakhand. Even though he spent almost his entire life Mumbai, not many are aware that he also had a connection wtih Uttarakhand. The actor had come to the state on a few occasions and had a healthy relationship with a few residents. One such resident who knows the Kapoor family well is Deepak Nagalia, who is the owner of the now-defunct Prabhat Cinema Hall on Chakrata Road “Not many know that both Rishi and Randhir Kapoor had spent a year of their early schooling in Dehradun at the Colonel Brown Cambridge School in the early 1960s. My father was their local guardian, as he had very good relations with Raj Kapoor Ji. I had a very cordial relationship with Rishi’s elder brother Randhir Kapoor and later he made me the local guardian of his daughter Kareena Kapoor when she came here to study at the Welham Girls School,” said Nagalia. He added, “Last time, I met Rishi Kapoor was 8 to 9 years back when he had come to the Forest Research Institute in Dehradun for a day to shoot a scene for his movie Student of the Year. The meeting didn’t last for more than 2 minutes as he was quite busy. Also, I had announced that my cinema hall (Prabhat Cinema) would shut down and it will show Rishi Kapoor starrer Bobby on March 31. In fact, Randhir Kapoor was also supposed to come, but it never happened due to the lockdown. The reason I picked Bobby for the last show of my cinema hall was because it was the only movie in more than 70 years of my cinema hall’s history which ran for more than 25 weeks. The craze for that movie among the public was unimaginable,” added Nagalia. The veteran actor’s father Raj Kapoor also used to visit the state frequently, especially the Uttarkashi district where the shooting of the movie Ram Teri Ganga Maili took place. “I had seen Rishi Kapoor, Neetu Singh and Yash Chopra in Maneri village back in the 70s. The shooting of their film took place near the Maneri Dam which was still under construction at that time. They stayed in a government-owned guest house,”recalled Rajaram Panwar, a resident of Maneri village in Uttarkashi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/recalling-rishi-kapoors-tryst-with-uttarakhand/articleshow/75479780.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||235 students brought back from Prayagraj & quarantined at home||BAREILLY: On Thursday, government buses brought 235 students who were struck in Prayagraj back to Kheri. The district administration initially took all the students to a private school in Lakhimpur city, where they were screened by a medical team. The students were later directed to download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones and to strictly follow home quarantine norms. They were asked to submit an affidavit that they will follow the guidelines and keep themselves isolated in their room and inform the district control room in case they displayed any Covid-19 like symptoms. SDM (Sadar) Arun Kumar Singh told TOI, “After providing them breakfast, we completed medical check-up of all the students. Fortunately, all of them seemed to be fine and didn’t display symptoms of any disease during the examination. We made them promise they will stay at home for the 28 day quarantine period and follow guidelines. The students will be monitored with the support of government school teachers in their respective areas. The students were advised to download the Aarogya Setu app and follow its instructions. They have been asked to maintain social distancing and inform us immediately if they develop symptoms of any disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/235-students-brought-back-from-prayagraj-quarantined-at-home/articleshow/75478473.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Youths join hands in fight against hatemongers||AHMEDABAD: They say a virus knows no caste or religion and that amid a pandemic crisis, spreading hate through disinformation only adds to the trauma experienced by all. Nearly 150 youths from across Gujarat have collaborated to combat hate mongers who allegedly posted old videos, manipulated pictures, comments and posters. Named ‘Youth Collaborative’, this group has lodged complaints with local police stations in different parts of Gujarat and the national cyber crime portal. In all, 541 complaints have been filed with different police stations across the state and national cyber crime reporting portal by this group. Of the complaints, 19 have been filed in Ahmedabad with various police stations like Juhapura, Ellisbridge, Gaekwad Haveli, Paldi and Kalupur. The videos posted include an old Indore video of a fruit seller applying saliva to fruits which has been presented as to be that of Ahmedabad. Another is a Mumbai video which shows a street with people peddling cigarettes amid lockdown and passing it off as a Jamalpur street of Ahmedabad. Yet another video shows a group of people offering namaz on a terrace of Paldi area. In reality, this video belongs to a Gulf country. “Then there were words like ‘Corona Jihad’ and that people of a particular community were gathering deliberately to spread the virus among other communities. This was so ridiculous and pervert,” says Munaf Ahmed, a member of Youth Collaborative. Others from the group include Mahir Desai, advocate Irshad Mansuri, Haseeb Sheikh, Ehzad Stationwala, Yunus Mansuri and Shaukat Malek from Ahmedabad, and Shehzad Wahewadia from Porbandar. “In this age of SARS-Cov 2 where blood plasma treatment is required by all those who are infected, how can you differentiate blood from one community from another,” says Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youths-join-hands-in-fight-against-hatemongers/articleshow/75480824.cms||Paul John
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Metro Rail spruces up its stations in lockdown lull||HYDERABAD: As and when the lockdown ends, the city’s citizens, especially those who take the Hyderabad Metro Rail’s green line for their commute, will be pleasantly surprised to see the newly-laid cement concrete roads and completion of other street-level works in and around metro stations. The metro rail authorities seem to be making the most of the coronavirus induced lockdown to complete all the civil works along with the regular maintenance of trains and electrical systems across all the three metro corridors. “We are using the lockdown period to finish some pending works at metro stations. The laying of CC road at Sultan Bazaar station on the green line is happening at a brisk pace. We decided it is better to finish these works now because after the lockdown it might get further delayed, especially at Sultan Bazaar as it is one of busiest areas in the city,” said Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited managing director NVS Reddy adding that the works at Sultan Bazaar are expected to be completed by the first week of May. This apart, the authorities are also ensuring that the overhead electric traction and signalling network are being periodically checked to avoid technical glitches after the operations resume. “There are different systems to be maintained to ensure that the trains run smoothly as and when the lockdown is lifted. So, we are continuing the maintenance works, trials and checking all the sections, including the rolling stock, overhead electric traction and signalling on all three corridors,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-rail-spruces-up-its-stations-in-lockdown-lull/articleshow/75480736.cms||Moulika.KV
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police to focus on loiterers at night||Ahmedabad: The state police has decided to swing their focus on to people who come out on the roads at night flouting lockdown. Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said on Thursday that night patrolling has been strengthened in containment areas with mounted police, police have also been told to patrol in private vehicles so that lockdown flouters do not receive a warning of police presence. Jha said intelligence bureau personnel have also been pressed into night duty. “On Wednesday, we registered eight cases of lock down violation based IB input, and in the past one month IB input helped in registering 590 cases of lockdown violations,” Jha said TNN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-to-focus-on-loiterers-at-night/articleshow/75480833.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||170 liquor bottles stolen from bar||Hyderabad: A burglar stole 170 bottles of whiskey from a bar and restaurant in Tarnaka. The offender covered all the CCTV cameras with clothes and towels to hide his identity, said OU police on Thursday. The theft occurred at Goodlands Bar and Restaurant on Wednesday. The owner found out on Thursday when he went there to water the plants and noticed the bar’s door lock broken. “The outside camera shows only one person entering the bar, however, it happened during the night time. We are yet to identify the accused,” said OU detective inspector Ramesh Naik. According to police, the offender broke open the liquor room inside the car, where the stock was kept. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/170-liquor-bottles-stolen-from-bar/articleshow/75480730.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Trichy||No case for two more days will land Karur dist in ‘orange’ zone||Karur: There are no more Covid-19 positive patients in the district as the only patient at the Karur medical college hospital was discharged on Thursday. The Karur medical college hospital has treated 42 positive cases from the district, all of them linked to a single source event in Delhi. As there have not been any new positive cases over the last 12 days, and if the same continues for the next two days, Karur district will be designated orange zone from red zone. The last patient to be discharged was a 32-year-old woman on Thursday, from Thogaimalai of Karur district. She was brought to the Karur government medical college hospital on April 17 with symptoms and tested positive. The patient did not have any comorbidities and was asymptomatic when she was admitted. “While she responded well to the treatment, she was scheduled to be discharged on April 25 but tested positive again,” said Dr E Theranirajan, additional dean of Karur government medical college hospital. “We tested her again on Wednesday and she was negative. After she tested negative again on Thursday, she was discharged in the evening,” he said. “Most of the patients that we admitted were asymptomatic, but there were a few comorbid patients who also recovered. We took extra care on such patients and the way they were responding to treatment,” he added. While it was a collective effort, medical staff say that psychiatrists and psychological counsellors hold a key in the cure for many patients. “Constant psychiatric counselling by engaging three psychiatrists was effective for their recovery apart from counsellors who went in person to counsel the patients,” said Theranirajan. “As Covid-19 is a new disease, no one could assure recovery as we could not predict the outcome. Psychological counselling becomes essential as mental strength of patients often helped in their recovery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-case-for-two-more-days-will-land-karur-dist-in-orange-zone/articleshow/75480754.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Eight Indonesian TJs sent to jail, two TN natives walk free after quarantine period in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Eight members of Tablighi Jamaat from Indonesia were sent to jail after completing a 28-day quarantine period at Moradabad Institute of Technology (MIT), while two other members hailing from Tamil Nadu walked free late on Wednesday. Police initiated action against the Jamaatis after they tested negative for novel coronavirus upon completing their quarantine period. As their quarantine period got over, police on Wednesday took all the 10 Jamaatis into custody in the presence of health department officials and produced them before the remand magistrate. The magistrate sent the eight Indonesian citizens — who were on a visit to India on a tourist visa and had been booked for misusing the visa and also under the provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act — to jail while letting off the two others. Advocate Vaibhav Agrawal said remand magistrate Raghuvansh Mani Singh granted bail to two Jamaatis from Tamil Nadu, while eight Indonesian were remanded to 14-day police custody. The two Jamaatis, who were granted bail, are Mohammad Jawed and Sheikh Daud, according to police. According to circle officer Vishal Yadav, all Jamaatis were arrested from Firdaus mosque in Qureshian locality under Thakurdwara police station limits in Moradabad 28 days ago. They arrived at the mosque on March 11 after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Thus far, 96 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Moradabad district, while nine were cured and discharged, four succumbed to the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-indonesian-tjs-sent-to-jail-two-tn-natives-walk-free-after-quarantine-period-in-moradabad/articleshow/75478493.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Colleges plan ahead to conduct semester exams in July and start classes in August||Trichy: Colleges in the city have begun preparatory works to be ready as and when they are given permission to open them. UGC has recommended that the term exams be conducted in July while the new academic session may commence from August 1 for old students and from September 1 for fresh students In this regard colleges are also planning to split classroom strength by converting laboratories into classrooms to ensure physical distancing. D Valavan, principal of Saranathan College of Engineering, said that they are looking into the possibilities of splitting the class strength and shifting 50% of students to the laboratory if the college reopens. “Covering remaining portions would not be an issue. A class of 60 students can be split and each can attend morning or evening session in the laboratory. We have also started preparing timetable for the same,” he said. “While the portions for second, third and fourth year were almost completed before the lock down, only for the first-year students, at least 2 out of 5 units are to be covered. We have been trying to cover those portions by conducting online classes,” he added. “We wish that colleges reopen with semester examination so that social distancing can be ensured, given the fact that colleges have been covering the remaining portions through online classes,” said D Srinivasan, principal of K Ramakrishnan college of engineering. “We have been experimenting with our staff to conducting online examinations as well, but it has a few challenges too,” she said. A senior faculty from a government engineering college in the city said that online classes aren’t that effective especially for academically weak students. “But going by the recommendations of the UGC committee, there is a delay of only one month than the usual and it would not be an issue to pick up in the next semester,” said Valavan. While examinations may be held in July, it is most likely to be conducted in a tight schedule. “A break of two or three days between two examinations has been in practise. But examinations were conducted in a tight schedule even in the past and it should not be an issue,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-plan-ahead-to-conduct-semester-exams-in-july-and-start-classes-in-august/articleshow/75480749.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Draft dilutes rules to grant env clearance for industries||Nagpur: The Centre’s Draft EIA Notification-2020 significantly dilutes the provisions of EIA Notification-2006, not only ignoring precautionary principles but also violating principles of natural justice and fundamental right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The draft is detrimental to wildlife, forest and environment protection, experts have said. Experts at the Vindhyan Ecology & Natural History Foundation, a research-based organization, who reviewed the new draft and submitted their views to the MoEFCC, said it proposes to regularize industries which have commenced operations without obtaining prior EC. Environmental policy expert Debadityo Sinha said, “The new draft categorizes many projects as B2 category (without any screening by the expert committee), which are exempted from mandatory process of screening, scoping, preparation of EIA, public consultation and appraisal by the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC).” “Only building and construction projects are proposed to be placed before the appraisal committee while applications for prior EC for all other B2 projects will be straightaway decided by a regulatory authority without referring the same to the SEAC,” Sinha said. Parul Gupta, a Delhi-based environment lawyer, said, “All expansion proposals of existing projects having prior EC are proposed to be granted standard Terms of Reference (ToR) within seven days of application, with an option to EAC to prescribe additional ToR within 30 days. It doesn’t have any provision to reject expansion project by EAC. This will lead to expanding projects without critical scrutiny.” She added, “The draft EIA allows collection of baseline data as old as three years. It further makes it discretionary for the regulatory authority to send an application for scoping or not. Earlier, scoping was mandatory and EIA studies were allowed to start only after grant of ToR.” Preeta Dhar, environmental litigation and policy research expert, said, “The draft proposes to regularize industries which have commenced operations without obtaining prior EC. Granting post-facto EC is against the precautionary principle, which is the sole basis and objective of EIA regulations.” “The draft also proposes to relax the half yearly compliance reports by project proponents to yearly. A penal provision for non-submission of self-compliance reports is also prescribed at a meagre amount of Rs500, Rs1,000 and Rs2,500 per day for projects under B2, B1 and A category respectively,” Dhar added. The draft ignores ecology completely and has maintained the focus only on air and water pollution. The ‘general conditions’ (when a project falling within a certain distance from boundaries of such areas will be appraised as Category A) only includes protected areas and notified Eco-Sensitive Zones (ESZs). “It doesn’t include ecologically significant areas protected under Indian Forest Act (IFA) 1927, Wetland Conservation and Management Rules 2017, CRZ Notification 2019, and Island CRZ Notification-2019, which need equal attention and cover habitats of various wildlife,” says Parul Gupta. Sudhanshu Kumar, expert on environmental science & technology, said, “The draft 2020 exempts all B2 projects from applicability of ‘general conditions’ and various other items in the Schedule viz secondary metallurgical industry, synthetic organic chemicals, highways, expressways, multimodal corridors or ring roads, common effluent treatment plants, building construction, elevated roads or stand-alone flyovers or bridges. Under the 2006 notification, the exemption was granted only for building constructions and area development projects.” In many cases, the land for proposed project or activity involves ecologically fragile areas, corridors, wetlands, grasslands, floodplains, hills, scrubland, desert etc, where trees may not be there necessarily but any construction or levelling such land could lead to damage to ecosystem habitats and wildlife corridors. Kumar said the new draft exempts applicability of ‘general conditions’ to projects. This implies that any new or expansion proposal of highways, even if proposed near or within ESZ or near PAs, will not be appraised by central government or treated as A category irrespective of their size and magnitude. Under the EIA Notification 2006, ropeway projects located at altitude of 1,000 metres and above and all projects located in notified ESZ are treated as Category A projects. All other projects under ropeway were treated as Category B2. Under the 2020 draft only projects located in notified ecologically sensitive areas are listed as Category B2. Other projects do not require any prior EC whatsoever. The 2020 draft has exempted about 40 different project activities from the requirement of any prior EC. This includes many projects with significant environmental impacts such as solar thermal power and photo-voltaic plants, extraction of earth for linear projects etc. The draft also treats all projects under inland waterways as Category B2. “This, along with the fact that maintenance dredging is exempted from the requirement of prior EC, would put beyond scrutiny the severe ecological and social impact of any dredging on rivers. This is particularly relevant since 111 river systems are declared as National Waterways with 106 of them declared for the first time in 2016,” says Sinha. LOOPHOLES IN NEW DRAFT * Includes check on projects only in ESZs notified by MoEFCC. This will cause huge damage to wildlife corridors which are not notified but are important * Definition of ‘violation’ is silent on projects which violate conditions of EC granted by regulatory authority * EIA Notification-2006 specifically required EC before any construction work or preparation of land by project proponents, but now construction of wall and levelling of land where tree felling is not required allowed without obtaining prior EC * Creates room for many projects to be placed beyond purview of public engagement * Exempts most B2 category projects from entire EIA process of screening, scoping, preparation of EIA and appraisal by SEAC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/draft-dilutes-rules-to-grant-env-clearance-for-industries/articleshow/75482003.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Siblings’ food challenge turns life-saver for hungry in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: It’s been 26 days since siblings Yerramallu Raghu Rama Rao and Kanaka Vardhinee of Nizampet started a food challenge asking apartment dwellers to make food to feed the hungry or make a donation in lieu of it. The challenge has been successful as many have come forward to contribute for feeding the hungry. “We started this challenge because we realised that in spite of their being so many helplines, food is still not reaching everywhere. Instead of wasting time, we decided to do our best,” said Vardhinee, a 40-year-old music instructor. The siblings, who live in KNR Colony, began small involving their apartment residents. They started by feeding 30 people, but now this number has increased to at least 700 people. “Now we are getting NRI donors from places such as Chicago in the US also,” said Vardhinee. “Twenty-five families are there in my apartment complex. Each apartment gave whatever they could on one day. Together we provided about 30kg of rice preparations besides buttermilk,” said Uday Bhanu, who lives nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/siblings-food-challenge-turns-life-saver-for-hungry/articleshow/75480748.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Ariyalur villagers save cash, barter produce instead||TRICHY: Necessity is not just the mother of invention. It can also nudge people back to tradition. For Manikandan Anbazhagan, a 32-year-old farmer from Suthamallai in Ariyalur district, the barter system, which involves exchange of goods of equal value, has come to his rescue amid the lockdown. Manikandan traded 20kg of dried red chilli for the 20kg of dried coriander seeds needed for his joint family. He is not alone. Several farmers in the district have revived this traditional system of exchange to avoid spending money on essential commodities. Manikandan told TOI that the need for money has dipped since non-essential services are closed. The barter system gained more prominence when the lockdown was extended after April 14, farmers said. Unwilling to travel far and wide to sell their produce, farmers in Setti Thirukkonam, Ambappur and Suthamalli villages have turned to the barter system. “The system also helps villagers from exhausting our cash reserve during the curfew. We were told that the lockdown will be the new normal for some more time, so why spend money,” Manikandan said. While the barter system had existed even before the lockdown, it was limited to neighbours. Now, it has broken boundaries and taken over neighbouring villages. Farmers are trading produce such as dried chilli, dried coriander seeds, groundnut, sesame and vegetables. Ramasamy Raja, a farmer, said the absence of middlemen in bartering helps them avail essential commodities at low prices. Modern technology has come in handy with farmers enquiring with nearby hamlets over mobile about surplus products and those in demand. Raja says the exchange is carried out based on the market value of the products accepted by both parties. But they aren’t bartering all their produce. Dried red chilli and coriander seeds can be stocked for months, so only a portion of the stock is traded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ariyalur-villagers-save-cash-barter-produce-instead/articleshow/75480743.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||One from Jangleshwar discharged||Rajkot: A 33-year-old man from Jangleshwar recovered from Covid-19 infection and was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. According to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) Dildar Bloch, who got admitted on April 15 was discharged after two consecutive reported turned out to be negative. Of the total 59 Covid-19 cases in Rajkot, 17 have been discharged so far and one person has died. Another 41 are under treatment and condition of all is said to be stable. In Bhavnagar, four people tested on Thursday which included a 38-year-old man, a 11-year-old boy and two women aged 33 and 52 years. Of the 50 positive cases in Bhavnagar, 22 have been discharged and five have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-from-jangleshwar-discharged/articleshow/75478485.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Mentally-ill man gets into tiff with cops||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old motorist who was stopped by police when he was plying without wearing mask and helmet picked up an argument with the police and used objectionable language at Lungar Houz. Later, when he was taken to the police station, they came to know that he is a mentally unwell person who was discharged recently from Government Hospital for Mental Care, Erragadda. The motorist using objectionable language and behaving aggressively with policemen and civilians at Tippukhan bridge was caught on camera. After a patrol vehicle was called, the man abandoned his bike and voluntarily got into the police vehicle. He later disclosed his name and gave his family’s contact number. He is a resident of Himayath Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mentally-ill-man-gets-into-tiff-with-cops/articleshow/75480750.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19: 4-year-old girl, two youngsters recover in Palanpur, go home||PALANPUR: Banaskantha on Thursday had some news to rejoice with three more patients, including a four-year-old girl, returning home after successfully battling Covid.“Three more Covid-19 positive patients of Gathaman village have been have been discharged after their full recovery. Tally of recovered patients in the district has now gone up to four,” said Jawahar Chandani, civil surgeon. On April 19, a five-year-old child from Mithavi Charan in Vav taluka was discharged after complete recovery. Dr Chandani said that five more patients are likely to be released as their repeat tests have come negative. “We are waiting for the second report that is expected to arrive on Friday,” he added. The patients who have been discharged on Thursday include four-year-old Sulafa, Asha Parmar, 19, and her bother Ajay, 14 who are from Gathaman village, around 17km from Palanpur. Talking to TOI, father of Sulafa, Gulam Rasul said, “My daughter was admitted to the hospital on April 17. Hospital authorities allowed only her mother to stay with her. However, the staff of Banas Medical College’s Covid ward was very amicable and treated my daughter with great affection. The staff and particularly the nurses talked to her like family members and kept surprising her with fruits and biscuits, which kept her spirits up.” The girl may have been infected by Asha, who worked at Rasul’s house in Gathaman village as a household help. Asha and her brother were admitted in the isolation ward on April 15. Total 30 positive cases were registered in the district, of which, one Fatimaben (65) of Bhagal village had died while four have been discharged and 25 are still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-yr-old-girl-two-youngsters-recover-in-palanpur-go-home/articleshow/75478539.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Man climbs atop unipole hoarding demanding liquor||Bareilly: After failing of to get liquor for over a month during the lockdown, a man climbed up unipole advertising hoarding allegedly demanding liquor and threatening to commit suicide near roadways bus here on Thursday evening. The high voltage drama ended after an hour when police promised to get him a bottle of liquor. Later, it was found that the man was suffering from mental illness. Police offered him food and soft drink and released him after counselling. Confirming the incident, Kotwali SHO Geetesh Kapil told TOI, “We managed to get him down without any injury. We had only promised but didn’t give him liquor. The sale of liquor is banned in the state and we are strictly following the lockdown guidelines. We are trying to establish his identity so that his family could be reached.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-climbs-atop-unipole-hoarding-demanding-liquor/articleshow/75478532.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 1, 2020||Trichy||MCH staff try yoga to boost immunity||Trichy: The medical staff in Pudukottai medical college hospital on Thursday received yoga classes to boost their immunity as they fight Covid-19. Teaching the staff Sukhasana, Pranayama and Ardha Matsyendrasana, some of the immunity boosting yoga postures, the experts as asked medical workers to practise them regularly. Inaugurating the session, Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari tried some yoga postures. The session was part of the integrated medical practices for the medical staff members. In all, 50 medical staff and nurses participated in the session on Thursday that had sessions on naturopathy and exercises to keep backbone healthy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mch-staff-try-yoga-to-boost-immunity/articleshow/75480761.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||Retailers’ in-house brands surge||Bengaluru: Private brands of large chain retailers and wholesalers have seen a steep rise in sales since the lockdown, because the chains have better control over the supply chains of their own products than of FMCG companies. Spencer’s Retail, Future Group and Metro Cash and Carry have had more than 50% growth in their own brands of essential products, including flour. noodles, lentils, spices and handwashes. On the contrary, supplies from large FMCG brands took a hit first due to dwindling production at the manufacturing plants and later poor distribution capacity on account of lack of manpower. “The better availability is structural. Our personal brand vendors are spread out geographically. During on-boarding, their factory and distance to main distribution centres are worked out,” said Devendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket. The company’s tea, Indian namkeen, hakka noodles, wafer biscuits, breakfast cereals, pasta and floor cleaner categories grew more than 50% during the period from mid-March to April, compared to February. Also, the lack of availability of many regular brands made consumers try out these products. “The savings on this is significant, around 15-20%, and if the savings mindset prevails, these will get a major opportunity to grow,” Chawla added. Metro Cash and Carry owned brands like Aro and Rioba in categories like noodles, snacks, spices, dish washing products, handwash, hand sanitisers and surface cleaners also grew rapidly in the past 45 days. While lentils grew 30% compared to February, it has now dropped to 15-20% because most customers have stocked up on it. “April will be a record month for our private brands,” said Arvind Mediratta, CEO of Metro Cash & Carry India. “Our own hot beverages grew at 46% compared to the segment growth of 34%, confectionery at 57% compared to 45%, and groceries and processed foods at 70% compared to 48% for the overall category,” he said. While many national FMCG brands had their clearing freight agents and depots shut in the early weeks of the lockdown, the retailers sent their own trucks to ensure better availability of their in-house brands. Future Group, whose brands include Desi Atta and Veg Affaire, said in the current scenario, customers are not choosing a brand but buying a product which they need. It has seen better growth across handwash and housecleaning products, biscuits, namkeens, pasta and pulses. “We have managed availability well since the vendors produce only for us. We work on a rolling demand forecast with them to plan for their production and packing material. So, they had finished goods when we wanted them just before the lockdown,” said Chawla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-in-house-brands-surge/articleshow/75480778.cms||Avik Das
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops patrolling on cycles, plain clothes||Ahmedabad: After using advanced technology like drone cameras that did not even spare people relaxing on their terraces, Vastrapur police has now come up with an old style of patrolling — the bicycle patrols — that can easily move into lanes and bylanes and are harder to spot from a distance. This is not the first time for the Vastrapur police to use bicycles to prevent crime during night in areas like Bodakdev, Vastrapur and some parts of Memnagar, Sola and Ghatlodia which come under their jurisdiction. They tried it around a year ago, but it did not work out and they stopped that practice in preference of motor vehicles. On Thursday, Vastrapur police again took out their cycles out and began patrolling in the area to watch for people violating lockdown. According to inspector M M Jadeja of Vastrapur police station, their cycle patrol team nabbed five people at a housing society in Bodakdev area. An official of Vastrapur police said that they will patrol in civil dress so people who violate the law would not have any warning of police presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-patrolling-on-cycles-plain-clothes/articleshow/75480819.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kochi||One more hotspot added in Kottayam||Kottayam: Udayanapuram grama panchayath was added to the list of hot posts in the district on Thursday in the wake of the high number of secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients here. The other hotspots in the district are Ayarkunnam, Aymanam, Manarcad, Melukavu, and Panachikkad, among others. The municipal wards 2,18,20,29,36,37 in Kottayam and 33 in Changanassery are also declared as hot spots. In Idukki, Edavetti, Karunapuram, Munnar and Vandiperiyar grama panchayats have been included in the hotspot list. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/one-more-hotspot-added-in-kottayam/articleshow/75478543.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Mumbai||At 1: 15 ratio, RIL plans India’s largest rights offer||Mumbai: Reliance Industries, India’s most valued company, plans to raise Rs 53,125 crore through a rights offer at Rs 1,257 a share, a 14% discount to the stock’s Thursday close on BSE at Rs 1,467. This is RIL’s first fund-raise from the public in three decades and the largest rights offering by an Indian company. Last year, Vodafone Idea and Airtel had come out with rights offerings of about Rs 25,000-crore each. Existing RIL shareholders can buy one share for every 15 shares held.The issue will lead to an equity dilution of about 7%. RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani and his family, the company’s promoters, holds 50% in the company that is currently valued at Rs 9.3 lakh crore. The promoters will take part in the rights issue by subscribing to shares worth about Rs 26,560 crore to maintain their holding in the exploration-to-e-tailer enterprise, the company said. “An ideal way to raise equity is through qualified institutional placement (QIP) or preferential allotment (PA). But in a QIP, promoters cannot participate and will lead to dilution of their holdings. In PA, promoters can participate but are limited to acquiring up to 5% only. Also, both have minimum price formulas to comply with,” said RippleWave Equity Advisors’ partner Mehul Savla. “Rights issue is the only choice if promoters want to infuse a large quantum of funds beyond the 5% acquisition limit.” RIL also said that if any non-promoter does not participate in the RIL rights offering, then their portion will be picked up by the promoters. This would result in their stake going up in the company even further. RIL said that the issue will be structured as partly paid shares and will enable shareholders to phase out the outlay on their investment over a period of time. The rights offering is RIL’s latest attempt to shore up the balance sheet and follows its deal with Facebook to whom it is selling 9.9% in Jio Platforms (its digital services unit) for Rs 43,574 crore. RIL is looking to sell more stake in Jio Platforms besides planning to bring external investors in its retail business. RIL said that as new strategic investors look to partner and add value to the consumer and technology growth engines, the rights issue enables all shareholders to participate in the same. At RIL’s annual shareholder meet last year, Ambani had promised shareholders that when the company achieves its zero net-debt target by March 31, 2021, he will reward them with higher dividends and bonus issues. On Thursday, RIL said that the company will achieve net debt free status before its own set timeline. RIL has a net debt of Rs 1.61 lakh on its books. The rights issues and other stake-sales are towards eliminating this net debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-1-15-ratio-ril-plans-indias-largest-rights-offer/articleshow/75481575.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Pay power bills till May 15 sans penalty||LUCKNOW: Electricity bills generated between March 1 and April 30 can be paid by May 15. The energy department has also announced 1% rebate on electricity bill and waiver of late payment charge on the electricity bill. Energy minister Shrikant Sharma also announced extension of Easy Instalment Scheme for farmers till May 31. The deadline was ending on Thursday. Under the scheme, a farmer can pay the arrears up to January 2020 in six installments without any surcharge over delayed payment. Sharma said the extension has been given to farmers who could not get benefited by the scheme because of corona pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pay-power-bills-till-may-15-sans-penalty/articleshow/75481559.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cop isolated after mother tests coronavirus positive||HYDERABAD: A constable attached to the Covid-19 cell with special branch (SB) of Hyderabad police has been put under quarantine after his mother tested positive for coronavirus. The constable’s mother, a resident of Uppal, had been ill for a week. She was quarantined at a government hospital after showing symptoms of Covid-19. She had previously visited various private hospitals. Senior officials in Hyderabad police told TOI that she had tested positive for Covid-19 later. All her family members, including the constable, were immediately put under quarantine. The result of all the family members is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-isolated-after-mother-tests-ve/articleshow/75480762.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Shallot farmers told to utilise low-cost storage facility||Trichy: The horticulture department has asked the shallot farmers to stock their produce using the storage facilities established by the National Horticulture Mission in the district during the pandemic time so that they can get a better price during the offseason. Farmers from Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Mannachanallur, T Pettai and Pullambadi blocks normally cultivate shallots on around 10,000 acres. Farmers at Pavithram, Jadamangalam, Valasiramani, Sengattupatti, Kombaikadu, Krishnarayapuram have been cultivating shallot in hundreds of acres in Trichy district. Meanwhile, the farmers expressed their worry that they are unable to sell their produce due to the lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19. Moreover, Bellary onion, which is selling at Rs 30 to Rs 20 per kg, also affects the sale of shallots. They have also appealed to the officials to help them to market their produce. The officials have asked onion farmers to store their produce at the low-cost onion storage facilities, which have been established at 300 locations in the district. “Under the National Horticulture Mission, our department had lent loan worth Rs 87,500 with a subsidy to build the low-cost onion storage facility. Around 300 farmers have built the facilities beside their houses. However, we learnt that some of the farmers are not utilizing the facility. So, we have advised them to store shallots at their facilities and can profitably sell them after three months,” deputy director of horticulture department C Vimala told TOI. Some of the farmers have abandoned the facility. They should use them properly, or they may let other farmers use it at least for time being, officials added. Allowing farmers to store their agricultural produce at the cold storage facilities established across the state by the agriculture marketing department, district collectors in delta districts such as Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur have asked the farmers to utilize the opportunity and sell their produce latter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shallot-farmers-told-to-utilise-low-cost-storage-facility/articleshow/75480768.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 1, 2020||Trichy||45-year-old man kills parents in Tamil Nadu, stuffs bodies in gunny bags||PERAMBALUR: A 45-year-old man murdered his parents allegedly over a dispute and stuffed their bodies in gunny bags at his house. The double murder took place in Ladapuram in Perambalur in the early hours of Wednesday. The victims have been identified as Ramasamy, 65, and his wife Chellammal, 60. The murders came to light after their son, R Ramesh was found loitering on the terrace of his house with a machete. He also threatened the people crossing his house with dire consequences. The Perambalur police rushed to his house and detained him. Police found two gunny bags in which the dead bodies were stuffed. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Ramesh, a graduate was separated from his wife and children and was living with his parents. Police said there was dispute between him and his parents. He hacked his father and mother to death with the machete and put their bodies in the bags. Sources said that the murderer pretended that he had some mental illness. However, the Perambalur police said that he was mentally stable. The bodies were taken to government hospital in Peramblaur for postmortem. Ramesh was arrested and would be produced in court and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/45-year-old-man-kills-parents-stuffs-bodies-in-gunny-bags/articleshow/75480787.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Three test positive in central region||TRICHY: Covid-19 reared its head once again in the state’s central region after four straight days here on Thursday with three patients, including a pregnant woman testing positive for the infection. A 36-year-old man from Namangunam in Ariyalur district, who travelled from Chennai, tested positive on Thursday. Sources said he travelled in a lorry carrying vegetables from Koyambedu market in Chennai and reached Ariyalur on April 26. On his arrival, he found himself with influenza-like illness (ILI) and came forward to test for Covid-19 at a primary health centre (PHC) in Perambalur district. The test results confirmed his infection. Perambalur district also reported two more positive cases on Thursday. One of them is a 51-year-old man from Athiyur in Perambalur district, who is a pharmacist at a PHC in Thungapuram. The second case in Perambalur is a 32-year-old pregnant woman at Lebbaikudikadu. On April 27, the public health department officials took her blood samples at a PHC at Lebbaikudikadu. The results confirmed her Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-test-positive-in-central-region/articleshow/75480789.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coining of ‘Gujarat ni Asmita’||Ahmedabad: ‘Gujarat ni Asmita’, which means Gujarat’s ‘pride’ if roughly translated, is widely believed to have been first coined by K M Munshi, a political activist, writer and educationist. But ‘Vismi Sadi’, Gujarat’s first coloured magazine from the early 20th century, has an article, ‘Gujarat ni Rashtriya Asmita Na Avtar’ written by Munshi himself where he credits the usage to one of Gujarat’s great writers Ranjitram Mehta. The article published in the 60 page magazine quotes a letter by Mehta written on 15 December 1917 where the writer refers to Gujarati consciousness (Asmita) and self respect (Atmasamman) to be felt not by remaining in the shadow of Maharashtra but by being part of the Indian subcontinent. “This fact was first shared by Munshi in this detailed Vismi Sadi article that how in 1917, Ranjitram Mehta had expressed that people of Gujarat should take pride in their identity and that it was not a shadow of Maharashtra,” says city based historian Rizwan Kadri. Kadri adds, “Many in the literature world and in political studies still refer the coinage of ‘Gujarat ni Asmita’ to K M Munshi, but that is not true.” On May 1 when Gujarat state’s commemoration was held at Sabarmati Gandhi Ashram, a few mementos were released, which were mostly books. In Maharashtra, a separate coin commemorating the formation of the state was released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coining-of-gujarat-ni-asmita/articleshow/75480813.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Faiths come together at Tihar this Ramzan||NEW DELHI: The Tihar authorities have arranged for more than 100 kg of dates and other dry fruits for over 2,500 inmates observing roza (fasting) during Ramzan. Jail officers say that as many as 2,449 Muslims and 124 Hindu inmates are keeping roza this year. The arrangements have been made for sehri and iftaar since the family members of the inmates are not allowed to meet them due to the lockdown. Usually, the family members are allowed to meet them twice in a week during Ramzan. They are sometimes also permitted to give the inmates food brought from home. “However, since the inmates are not able to meet their families in the lockdown, jail staffers have been providing them with fruits, a sweet drink and dates for iftaar,” said a jail staff member. Food is provided to the inmates at 4am and they are allowed to offer prayers. Social distancing is ensured. “Nutritious food is served for sehri. Even Jail staffers wake up with the inmates to prepare the food,” said a jail officer. For the inmates kept in the quarantine wards, the food is served from a safe distance. A space near the cells has been sanitised by the jail staff so that the inmates can offer namaz there. They are allowed to sit at a distance from each other. The elderly inmates, whose wards are near the jail hospital, have been kept under observation. They have been asked to offer their namaz inside their cells, where a separate space has been cleared for them. The cells of the high profile inmates, especially foreigners who had earlier claimed that they were not adequately protected, have been sanitised. In recent times, Tihar Jail has granted parole or interim bail to 2,500 convicts serving less than seven years of jail term to enforce the social distancing norms since the beginning of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/faiths-come-together-at-tihar-this-ramzan/articleshow/75481566.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Common toilets at VNIT hostel worry quarantined inmates||Nagpur: Over 120 Satranjipura residents late on Wednesday night complained about lack of hygiene at Visvesvarya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) hostel number 2 where they were placed under institutional quarantine by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). They were among the 400 residents out of over 1400 quarantined from the city’s Covid-19 hotspots. Some of them have been put up at Symbiosis campus at Wathoda, MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan. After officials allegedly refused to heed to their pleas, the inmates came out of rooms and sat on a protest until small hours of Thursday. The inmates also posted videos and photos of unclean toilets on social media. “NMC administration brought us here but now they are not cooperating. All this while, they were accusing entire Satranjipura of not cooperating. We have been living in a sealed area for over a month. We know most of us are not infected now. A family of a positive patient has been put up in hostel number 2. It is using the same toilets, bathrooms, and wash basins. Others are fearful they may get infected,” said some of the inmates. The inmates said around 48 people have been given just four bathrooms and toilets and one water cooler for use on each floor. “People are using as per their style. After we raised the issue, cops gave a lock to each family. Still, we are eight families. As of now, we decided two families will use one bathroom, toilet and wash basin. But all are crowding for filling up water. We pray that Allah protects us,” they said. NMC had brought 87 families to VNIT on Wednesday evening. Before that VNIT hostel number 1, 2, 10, and 12 had been acquired by the district administration for institutional quarantine. The officials have accommodated suspects in vacant rooms while many are allotted to students, who have since lockdown returned home. Sub-divisional officer Shekhar Gadge said every floor has 12 toilets. “For every 10 persons, the hostel offers one toilet and one bathroom. Those on other floors too are available for use. But separate toilet and bathroom can’t be given to each person. These are common toilets,” he said. Regarding compliance of guideline for isolation and providing separate bathrooms, Gadge said, “Now, it is not possible.” Asked about the reason for protest, Gadge said, “They were demanding rooms with attached toilet-bathroom. We told them they can use bathrooms on other floor too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/common-toilets-at-vnit-hostel-worry-quarantined-inmates/articleshow/75481562.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 1, 2020||Business||Ex-Axis Bank CEO Shikha Sharma is adviser of GPay India||Bengaluru: Axis Bank former CEO Shikha Sharma has joined Google Pay India as adviser, according to a tweet by Caesar Sengupta, GM & VP (payments and next billion users) at Google. Sengupta’s tweet says Sharma, a banking veteran, has been a champion of bank-tech partnerships and in her new role, she would help Google Pay’s strategy in India. Sharma, who left Axis Bank in 2018, was at the helm of the bank during acquisition of Freecharge for Rs 385 crore in 2017 . She is also an independent director on boards of Tata Global Beverages, Ambuja Cement, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, and Tech Mahindra. “I’m a deep believer in the potential of fintech to create great value for users as well as traditional financial systems.I had the opportunity to interact with the Google Pay team since the early days of their business in India and have been impressed by their vision of making payments and financial services simple and easy for everyone,” she said in a statement. Google Pay is one of the leading apps on Unified Payments Interface (UPI), battling with the likes of PhonePe, Amazon Pay and Paytm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ex-axis-bank-ceo-shikha-sharma-is-adviser-of-gpay-india/articleshow/75480836.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Man climbs atop unipole hoarding demanding liquor||BAREILLY: After failing of to get liquor for over a month during the lockdown, a man climbed up unipole advertising hoarding allegedly demanding liquor and threatening to commit suicide near roadways bus here on Thursday evening. The high voltage drama ended after an hour when police promised to get him a bottle of liquor. Later, it was found that the man was suffering from mental illness. Police offered him food and soft drink and released him after counselling. Confirming the incident, Kotwali SHO Geetesh Kapil told TOI, “We managed to get him down without any injury. We had only promised but didn’t give him liquor. The sale of liquor is banned in the state and we are strictly following the lockdown guidelines. We are trying to establish his identity so that his family could be reached.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-climbs-atop-unipole-hoarding-demanding-liquor/articleshow/75478548.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Doctor, Rotary Club donate infrared thermometers to urban PHCs||TRICHY: Underlining the need for infrared thermometers instead of using conventional thermometers to avoid likely infection during Covid-19 outbreak, Rotary Club Rock City of Trichy and a city-based cardiologist provided 14 infrared thermometers, each worth Rs 5,000, to the primary health centres (PHCs) in Trichy city on Wednesday. Chief cardiologist, Rana Hospital, Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy who organised the project with the Rock City Rotary Club said that handheld cutaneous infrared thermometers were needed during the Covid-19 pandemic. The main advantage of this infrared thermometer is that it would not require contacts with the patient. It would not cause discomfort to the individual being assessed. So, it can be used to screen large cohorts. After handing over the first one to Trichy collector S Sivarasu, the team comprising Dr Senthilkumar, Rotary Club Rock City president Rajesh and secretary Thilakchander distributed the thermometer to 14 UPHCs in Woraiyur, Gandhipuram, Ramalinga Nagar, Periyamelaguparai, E pudur , Beemanagar , Iruthaiyapurm , Beerangikulam , Airport , Subramaniyapuram , Thennur , Tepakulam and EB Road. The doctors, the medical team and the patients visiting the UPHCs will benefit from the non-contact handheld infrared thermometers. Donating 10 face shields to the UPHCs each, Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy also highlighted about the use of face masks and hand sanitizers and talked about the utility of face shields in protecting doctors from infection in the line of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/doc-rotary-club-donate-infrared-thermometers-to-urban-phcs/articleshow/75480798.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Hospitality industry seeks bailout package||LUCKNOW: Paralysed by the prolonged lockdown, the tour and travel industry has asked for a major relief package, including a tax holiday, to stay afloat and also to save over five million jobs. Raising the demand during a first of its kind webinar held here on Thursday, representatives of the tour and hospitality industry requested principal secretary, tourism, Jitendra Kumar, who also heads culture and religious affairs department, to launch a relief package for the industry which is devastated by the novel coronavirus pandemic. The webinar was organised on the initiative of the tourism industry with a sole purpose of apprising the state government of problems being faced by the industry. Talking to TOI, Kumar said that the government is committed to solve grievances of the tourism sector which is passing through a critical phase. “I will discuss their demands with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. It has to be a collective action by various departments as their demands are not limited to the tourism department only. Thus, before finalising the relief package we would have to consult various departments, including power, revenue and finance,” he added. During the interaction, the representatives sought a bailout package from the government. They said that the 50 per cent of salary bill of staff engaged with the hotel and travel industry should be borne by the government. Besides, the government should pay employees' share of provident fund for six months and exempt bars and hotels from paying SGST, property taxes and excise for the same period. They also demanded monthly stipend for the registered guides for at least six months. Meanwhile, Rajiv Saxena, CMD, Sanskriti Travels, suggested that the government should offer interest free loans to the tourism industry with an option of paying back the loan in EMIs after the revival of the sector. Adil Zaidi of the Ernst and Young also advocated for a bailout package for the crippled tourism industry. Expressing similar views, Amar Tulsiyani, co-chairman of the FICCI state council, said that the salary bill of 50 per cent of the staff should be borne by the government. Expressing concern over rising cases of Covid-19 in Agra, he said that the tourism industry in the state would need at least a year to bounce back once again. In his concluding remarks, the principal secretary told the representatives that not only the private sector, but even the government was facing huge financial losses due to the economic slowdown. Currently, due to spread of new coronavirus cases in the state, the government's focus is on the health sector. He, however, assured them that their demands would be conveyed to the government and remedial steps would be initiated soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hospitality-industry-seeks-bailout-package/articleshow/75481563.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Cong claims over 21k people from U’khand stuck in different states||Dehradun: Opposition Congress on Thursday launched a scathing attack on chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat after he reportedly refused to meet an eight-member party delegation on Wednesday, instead asking them to reduce their numbers for the meeting. Infuriated Congress leaders in protest returned from the CM residence without meeting him. On Thursday, they met chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and handed over a list of 21,000 state residents, who they alleged were stuck at different locations. Cong state president Pritam Singh said that the CM should be proactively trying to bring those stranded outside the state for a month and not just be sitting in his residence. Congress state chief Pritam Singh said that playing the role of a healthy opposition, the party had approached the CM with vital information containing details of people of Uttarakhand stuck at different locations. "Using the data, the state government could have easily helped these people but the CM was more interested in the number of members of the delegation. Therefore, we returned without meeting him," he said, adding that it has been well over four weeks but the "CM and the state government was yet to come out of its slumber over the issue." He asserted that under the pressure of Congress party, the state government brought back some people from Prayagraj and Kota. "But still there is a big number which is waiting to return back," added Singh. Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said, "The CM met a six-member Uttarkhand Kranti Dal team, which had gone to hand over a cheque, but he had a problem from the Congress delegation which had gone with a list of 21,000 state residents, who were stuck at different locations during the lockdown." He pointed out that the data was collected through a website developed by party leader Manish Khanduri. "It is surprising that people of the state are suffering in different parts of the country but the CM is unwilling to step out of his official residence. Even in Uttarakhand, there are so many people related issues but neither the CM nor his cabinet team is least bothered about it and as a result there was no one to listen to the voice of the common man," said Dhasmana. Urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, "I do not know from where the Congress collected this information. The state government has the accurate government and we have started the process to bring back people from other states."’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-claims-over-21k-people-from-ukhand-stuck-in-different-states/articleshow/75479819.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand Police to felicitate one cop, one civilian every day contributing in Covid-19 battle||Dehradun: In a move to boost the morale of those involved in the fight against novel coronavirus, the Uttarakhand Police have decided to award one police personnel and one civilian in each district every day. Apart from that, a list of police personnel and individuals —who have made extraordinary contribution —would be prepared and their name would be recommended for an award on the Independence Day parade ceremony. “I have directed the police chief in all the districts to identify a corona warrior – a police personnel in their respective districts. Besides, they will also prepare a list of individuals, who have been contributing for the cause,” director general of police (DGP) (law and order) Ashok Kumar said. While a cash reward would be given to the police personnel the civilian would be felicitated with a letter of appreciation. “For those who made an outstanding contribution, we will recommend their names for the award that will be given on the Independence Day parade event,” said the senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-police-to-felicitate-one-cop-one-civilian-every-day-contributing-in-covid-19-battle/articleshow/75479824.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC plans to shift 1-1.5k people from Mominpura to quarantine||Nagpur: After quarantining 1,408 persons from Satranjipura, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has now chalked out a plan to quarantine anywhere between 1,000 to 1,500 people from Mominpura, which has emerged as second Covid-19 hotspot. Meanwhile, two more persons from Satranjipura tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday taking the tally of infected persons from this hotspot to 88 and the number of cases from the district to 138. The two positive persons have been identified as 23-year-old and 55-year-old males from Badi Masjid area of Satranjipura. The 23-year-old was under institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel and has now been shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The 55-year-old man was quarantined at Wathoda and has been shifted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH). The two are neighbours of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first Covid-19 victim. NMC sources told TOI, “From Satranjipura, 1,408 persons have been quarantined between April 6 and 29. Cases from Mominpura are on the rise. Close contacts of positive persons are not coming forward on their own for testing. Therefore, people from the area will be quarantined to contain the spread of the disease in the area and also in other localities.” The civic body’s drive in Satranjipura in East Nagpur has yielded result as 88 cases were detected. Test reports of over 500 persons, who were quarantined on April 27 and 29, are yet to come. On April 27, 498 persons were quarantined and 402 on April 29. Reports of all these people are expected in a day or two. On Wednesday, a 28-year-old pregnant woman from Dobi Nagar near Ansar Nagar had tested positive increasing the Covid tally from Mominpura in Central Nagpur to 27. She also delivered a baby girl at IGGMCH. The woman was third positive case from this locality, but not from the existing chain of virus spread. The NMC team, led by zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin, has quarantined 12 family members of the woman on Thursday. NMC officials further told TOI that 13 from a family residing in Choodi Gully had tested positive, of which one person died on Wednesday in the isolation ward. “Every one may have come in close contact with others. But people are not giving information,” they said, adding “Close contacts of two new cases (TB patient from Takia Deewanshah and one man from Timki) could not be traced.” “Some people are still roaming in containment zone. Therefore, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has directed us to quarantine people from Takia Deewanshah, Choodi Gully and Dobi Nagar near Ansar Nagar,” said the NMC officials. “Drive is likely to begin from Friday or Saturday as arrangements at new institutional quarantine centres, including one on Katol Road, are yet to be completed. Announcements to that effect were made in these three areas on Wednesday and Thursday,” the officials added. Cap seller was the first to test positive from Mominpura on April 4. Since then, the NMC had quarantined 198 people from this area. Following death of a person at IGGMCH isolation ward, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar on Thursday held a meeting with officials of NMC, GMCH and IGGMCH. Kumar has reportedly directed the officials of IGGMCH and GMCH to diagnose and take care of all positive persons, symptomatic or asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-plans-to-shift-1-1-5k-people-from-mominpura-to-quarantine/articleshow/75480802.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No applauses on Foundation Day’||Ahmedabad: The chief justice of the Gujarat high court, Vikram Nath, has clarified that the full court reference to mark the 60th Foundation Day of the court on May 1 is not a celebration amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and that there should not be any applause at the end of addresses. The HC has deferred various events marking the Foundation Day, but the chief justice proposed the formal address be made through video conference. Many lawyers expressed apprehension that such a programme may be perceived as a celebration during the pandemic. The CJ, in a circular, said that the standing committee discussed the issue and concluded that the full court reference “cannot be termed as a celebration, but it is only to commemorate and show a mark of respect, offered to this glorious institution for its remarkable journey spanning 60 years.” To give a serious tone to the programme, the CJ has placed a condition, “There shall be no applause or any other activity to disassociate from the solemnity of the event.” After the chief justice announced that the HC will go ahead with the programme commemorating the Foundation Day through video conferencing and the sitting judges, top government law officers, leaders of the Bar and senior lawyers can participate, various lawyers expressed feeling left out from the programme. To address this concern, the HC circular said, “The Full Court Reference planned for the said date is a function of the Bar essentially and for its members, who stand in perpetuity along with this mighty institution. Without breaching any of the norms of the Lock-Down guidelines, without incurring any expense, with the full participation of all the learned members of the Bar through live streaming, in all solemnity and dignity the reference would be conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-applauses-on-foundation-day/articleshow/75480812.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||With spurt in Amravati, Vid registers 20 new cases||Nagpur: After registering only six new positive cases on Wednesday, Vidarbha once again registered a double digit increase on Thursday. Total 20 new cases were reported in a day, with highest 12 from Amravati. With Akola (4), Nagpur (2), and Yavatmal (2) also registering new cases, Vidarbha’s tally reached 320 on Thursday. Amravati now has 40 cases, the third highest in Vidarbha after Nagpur (138) and Yavatmal (88). In Akola, a woman patient who died on April 28 tested positive on Thursday, making it second Covid-19 related death in Akola. One Covid-19 positive patient had committed suicide. Now, the Covid-19 death toll in Vidarbha has reached 12. In a matter of concern for Bhandara, two women patients died in the district hospital on Thursday. Doctors said they were serious TB patients and their swab samples have been sent to Nagpur for testing. One woman TB patient from the district has already tested positive. She is admitted to isolation ward and undergoing treatment. On Thursday, one patient recovered from Nagpur GMCH, taking the total number of recovered patients to 83. However, on the patient’s request, the discharge was postponed to Friday morning. In Nagpur, two new — a 23-year-old man and another 55-year-old man — positive patients were found from Satranjipura. By late Thursday evening, the youth was shifted to GMCH isolation ward. In Yavatmal, two more suspects admitted to GMC tested positive on Thursday, taking total number of cases in the city to 88. Ten patients have already recovered and discharged, and currently 78 are admitted in the GMC. District collector MD Singh has urged residents of containment areas to stay in their home and those residing in other areas to strictly adhere to lockdown norms. Essential commodities were distributed without any rush during 8am to 12 noon while banks functioned during the scheduled timing from 8am to 12 noon. Singh told TOI that the administration is confident of controlling the coronavirus spread in a fortnight and appealed for people’s cooperation. In a sigh of relief for Washim, three suspects who had got themselves admitted a day before tested negative. Civil Surgeon of Washim informed that their samples were collected on April 29 and report came on April 30. Chandrapur, Wardha and Gadchiroli have remained Covid-19 free so far while Gondia has not reported new case from the last 25 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-spurt-in-amravati-vid-registers-20-new-cases/articleshow/75482006.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||SHO, 200 others booked for wedding anniversary bash inside police station||PILIBHIT: Forty-six-year old Hari Shankar Verma, the station house officer (SHO) of Bilsanda police station in Pilibhit district, was suspended by the superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Dixit on Wednesday for celebrating his wedding anniversary inside the police station with 200 others on April 26. CO of Bisalpur, Lallan Singh, who is the complainant and had also attended the party, has been served a notice too, the SP said. He needs to clarify as under what circumstances he was present. Verma was booked along with 200 unidentified people for violating the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. Some locals along with policemen had attended the SHO's party. “I have received complaints that the suspended SHO had arranged liquor in the party. The police are examining these charges. If true, strict action will be taken and more sections will be added to the FIR," the SP added. SHO Verma and 200 others were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, sections 3, 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. The SP said that SHO Verma's offence is far more serious as being a law-keeper he has flouted rules and set a wrong example before others. Notably, SHO Verma's family was not at the party. There were, according to sources, the SHO and several other policemen and locals at the party held inside the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-200-others-booked-for-wedding-anniv-bash-inside-police-station/articleshow/75478562.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress N-1 that evaded capture to be caught again near Nagzira||Nagpur: The problem tigress N-1 from North Bramhapuri range, which has entered Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) buffer zone after travelling over 100km, will be captured. Three-four teams are already at work since Wednesday after chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar issued the capture orders. The tigress has been blamed for killing five persons — three in Bramhapuri division and two in NNTR buffer. As reported by TOI earlier, N-1 had killed three persons on November 14 and December 24, 2019, and one more on January 26 in Bramhapuri division. The first order to capture the problem tigress was issued on January 10, 2020, but the teams failed to capture her. Now the tigress is in NNTR buffer. The tigress has recently killed two people in an interval of 20 days. The first victim was Arun Bhalavi, a resident of Dhanutola, who was mauled on March 29 morning, when he had ventured into the forest to collect leaves to feed goats. On April 18, Anita Tumsare (32), a resident of Mangezari on the outskirts of Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary, was killed by the same tigress when she had gone to collect mahua flowers. The distance between the two human kills is around 10-15km. However, official sources said the problem big cat is being captured for two reasons — one is N1 has past history of killing three people, and now the two recent deaths. “Apart from the tigress being problematic, there is also political pressure to capture N-1 to avoid more human kills. During the first kill near NNTR, the local MLA had warned he would take the matter to the top if the tigress is not captured,” said forest officials. Gondia deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) S Yuvraj said, “As per NTCA protocol a committee was set up and after looking into the record of the tigress it recommended capturing the animal. We have sent alert in all the villages around Nagzira about the operation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-n-1-that-evaded-capture-to-be-caught-again-near-nagzira/articleshow/75481808.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Question mark over Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2021||GANDHINAGAR: The ninth version of the biennial Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS) scheduled to be held in January next year, has come under a cloud of uncertainty due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government begins promotional activity for the VGGS summit about six to eight months before the event with senior officers visiting US, UK, Japan, Middle East, African countries and other places. Pre-event national and international seminars on various sectors are held from August. Planning for all these events have been put on hold. A key government source said that the state government has put on hold all decisions related to the VGGS 2021, as a large number of countries are facing lockdown because of the pandemic outbreak. “We are keeping an eye on how things shape up globally and in the country over the next few months and then decide on the planning of VGGS,” said the source. The source added that following the Covid-19 outbreak, US and Japanese companies are looking to exit their China operations, and strategy will have to be planned accordingly. “Moreover, the GOI plays a major role in the summit and so all major decisions will be taken only after the pandemic is brought under control,” the source said. In the 2019 vibrant summit, around 2,000 foreign delegates from over 100 countries had participated. Besides, delegations from over 20 states of the country had taken part in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/question-mark-over-vibrant-summit-2021/articleshow/75480795.cms||Kapil Dave
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||25k get work in MNREGA projects||Gandhinagar: More than 25,000 workers have got work in various districts of the state under MNREGA after the state government took up projects under the scheme. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said that the third phase of Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyaan began from April 20 and will continue until June 10. “The CM has directed various departments to undertake 14,694 works worth Rs 414 crore during this period,” the official said. He added that 88 works in 33 districts have already been completed between April 20 and 29. In addition, water-holding capacity of 4.69 lakh cubic metres has been made available through these works. “The administration is ensuring safety measures while undertaking these works,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/25k-get-work-in-mnrega-projects/articleshow/75480842.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Village headman booked for not informing on Covid-19 positive man||BAREILLY: Local administration has booked a village headman for allegedly not informing senior officials about the arrival of a 20-year-old man from Mumbai, who later tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19). On Thursday, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Aonla Kamlesh Kumar said, “We learnt that Shafiuddin, headman of Shahbazpur Supalli village, was well aware about the man's arrival from Mumbai, but he didn’t inform us. Later, the man tested positive. He may have come hiding in a fruit laden truck.” The SDM added that all village headmen had been directed to inform senior officials promptly, if any outsider comes to their respective villages. Station house officer inspector Rahul Singh said that an FIR under sections 188, 278 and 279 of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered against the headman on the basis of complaint filed by the Aonla SDM. “After lodging the FIR, further investigation has been initiated in the matter,” he said. Notably, the young man of Shahbazpur village had reached Delapeer wholesale vegetable market after travelling in a fruit laden truck and from there he reached his place. Police said, that now, all entry points of the village have been sealed. Meanwhile, the SDM said that they traced all 27 people who had come in contact with the man and they have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/village-headman-booked-for-not-informing-on-covid-ve-man/articleshow/75478576.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Woman & son related to Bareilly’s first Covid-19 casualty test positive||BAREILLY: A 54-year-old woman and her 29-year-old son were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The residents of Brahmapura area of Bareilly city are relatives of the 35-year-old man who died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. With that, Bareilly’s tally of those infected has reached 10, including six who have recovered. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The two people who were tested positive are relatives of the 35-year-old man from Hajiyapur who died on Wednesday. The 29-year-old man works as a receptionist at a private hospital on Stadium Road. All 26 people who came in contact with him in the hospital have also been quarantined.” On Wednesday, a six-member pool sample of a health team at a private medical college was found positive. The health team comprises three doctors and three nurses, who were involved in the treatment of a woman in the intensive care unit of the private medical college in Bareilly, before she was referred to a higher centre in Rishikesh, where she was tested positive for Covid-19. Their individual samples have now been collected to identify those who are infected. “The pool test will be repeated after four days to find out if there are more people among them who are infected. On Thursday, results of another 49 samples, including 12 pool samples, arrived, and all were found negative,” said Dr Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-son-related-to-bareillys-first-covid-casualty-test-positive/articleshow/75478589.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona scare: Body of 6-month-old girl abandoned by parents buried||AHMEDABAD: Even though several people have come forward to cremate the six-month-old baby who was abandoned by her parents after her death at the Civil Hospital on Tuesday, police have decided to wait till the medical report is received. “If the report says that she died because of Covid-19, she will be cremated according to the protocol,” said DCP Neeraj Badgujar. “If the test is negative for Covid-19, then her body can be given for cremation to those who have submitted applications in Naroda police station seeking permission for cremation,” he added. Bharat Damor and his wife had come to the hospital with the baby for treatment on Monday. The parents left for their native place Dungarpur in Rajasthan after her death. When the hospital staff saw the body in the hospital they searched for her parents and later informed Naroda police. The police traced the parents to Dungarpur but they refused to come to Ahmedabad for cremating the baby. They requested the police to make arrangements for her cremation. Badgujar said the body has been kept in the cold storage of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abandoned-babys-cremation-only-after-covid-test/articleshow/75480822.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||Online college classes hobbled by poor infrastructure, lack of bandwidth||HARIDWAR: Teaching faculty at degree colleges in Haridwar affiliated to the HNB Garhwal Central University, Srinagar have alleged that the university’s decision to adopt online system of teaching without necessary preparation or infrastructure, has plunged both the faculty and the students into avoidable difficulties. “While all efforts are being made to comply with government directions in this regard making use of existing facilities, availability of basic infrastructure should be ensured to make the new teaching system effective,” a teacher told TOI. The director of higher education, in a letter dated March 13, just days before colleges were shut due to the nationwide lockdown, had proposed adopting online teaching at the university. With the lockdown declared soon after, collection of information necessary for online teaching took time. Nevertheless, online classes were launched in the last week of March, but “with teachers only half-prepared for the task”, said Sunil Kumar Batra, principal, SMJN College. “We are often facing crowded network and irregular internet which make it difficult to send teaching material to students via Facebook or YouTube,” Batra added. Alok Kumar, principal, Chinmaya Science College, also said only around 70% of the students are able to access online classes. However, some students said they have adapted well to the online mode. Ritambhara, a second-year B Sc student at Chinmaya Science College, said despite difficulties, online classes are welcome. “The best thing is that we get the complete lecture material via WhatsApp, which we can read at our convenience. As for interaction with teachers, it too has increased and is now much more than during normal classes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-college-classes-hobbled-by-poor-infra-lack-of-bandwidth/articleshow/75479833.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||54-year-old man tests positive, tally reaches 11||Kolhapur: A 54-year-old man from Bhudargad taluka tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Wednesday. According to the health department, the man had traveled from Mumbai to Gargoti on April 16 and was under institutional quarantine. He was admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) civil hospital in the wee hours of Wednesday. Yogesh Sale, District Health Officer, said that the man had traveled with three others from Mumbai. One passenger alighted at Sawantwadi, while the remaining three traveled to Gargoti, wherein the positive patient ended his journey. The remaining two passengers travelled back to Mumbai. "He was kept at one of the institutional quarantine facility at Gargoti, where he was regularly monitored by the health care workers. On April 26, he developed some symptoms of the infection, after which he was checked again at one of the primary health centres and was recommended for transfer to CPR," the official said. Meanwhile, one of the passengers, who alighted at Sawantwadi, was tested and her reports came out as negative. With this positive patient, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district has reached to 11 of which 7 are active. Meanwhile, two non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have provided essential groceries to as many as 80 transgenders from the district. Sadhana Jhadbuke, a social activist from the city, said the unavailability of Aadhaar and ration cards poses many hurdles for the transgender community that needs to be looked into on priority basis. "Prasad Sankpal from the disaster management cell of the district administration is taking the lead in resolving the issues," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/54-year-old-man-tests-positive-tally-reaches-11/articleshow/75458846.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Mangaluru||After much suspense, 16th DK resident tests +ve for Covid-19||Mangaluru: After a little over a 19-hour wait from 5pm on April 29, a strong rumour that the 16th resident of Dakshina Kannada had tested positive for Covid-19 was confirmed. When the state bulletin was released at 12.25pm on Thursday, the first entry in it read: “P-536, female, Dakshina Kannada, Contact of P-501, designated hospital, Dakshina Kannada”. She was among the 22 positive cases the state reported since the evening bulletin of April 29. The presence of a positive case in Boloor village was almost confirmed, when the city police on Wednesday evening started preparations to seal specific areas of the village from where P-536, a 58-year-old woman, hailed from. However, the district administration was hamstrung in either confirming or denying it, for they received the report of the woman testing positive only after minister Suresh Kumar had finished his daily media briefing on the state’s situation, in Bengaluru. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, DUDC, said that the district authorities have clear instructions not to release information prior to it being announced in either the afternoon or evening state bulletin. In the interim, health authorities had shifted P-536, a patient treated for brain TB at First Neuro Hospital, and discharged on April 20, to Wenlock Hospital, and started her treatment. First Neuro Hospital is a supervised Covid-19 isolation centre. B A Khader Shah, senior assistant director, department of information and public relations, said that the media was after him to get the district administration to release a special bulletin on the Boloor case. Reports of this case had spread like wildfire on social media, and police action on ground only fuelled it, he said. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has appointed executive engineer 3 of MSCL as the incident commander for the containment zone in Boloor, which has a population of 640. Dakshina Kannada now has seven active cases, and has recorded 22 positive cases overall. While 16 are residents of this district, the remaining four are from Kasaragod in Kerala and one each from Karkala in Udupi and Bhaktal in Uttara Kannada. Out of this, a husband-wife duo from Uppinangady, are likely to be discharged either this weekend, or early next week. CAPTION RAvi Posavanike Policemen seal Boloor area in Mangaluru on Thursday after a woman tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/after-much-suspense-16th-dk-resident-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75478590.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Allow us to collect fees, demand schools||Nagpur: School associations across the state are reaching out to the government in a bid to get permission to start collecting fees from parents during lockdown period. Private unaided schools say even if the lockdown is extended beyond May 3, the moratorium on fee collection should be lifted as they are unable to meet their expenses. Independent English Schools Association (IESA) has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray apprising him of tough financial situation their members now find themselves in. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, said many schools did not have funds to meet expenses for May. “Many schools have not received even a single paise through fees since March. How can anyone be expected to survive and support dependent staff without having any earning for three months,” asked Dayma. The state government had issued an advisory that schools should refrain from asking for either pending or new fee from parents during the lockdown period. Schools suggested that lockdown may have restricted movement, but nothing was stopping them from paying online. Many schools also suggested breaking up quarterly fee into monthly installments so some revenue starts coming. Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) has written to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor seeking interest free loans. Sanjay Tayde-Patil, president of MESTA, said “There is no option left for schools but to borrow money for working capital needs. However, schools cannot bear the interest on such loans because revenue has been badly hit. We request the governor to allow banks to provide schools with zero-interest loans so that our short term demands are met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-us-to-collect-fees-demand-schools/articleshow/75480834.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress seeks loan waiver for farmers||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat Congress on Thursday demanded loan waiver for the farmers amid major losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “The government has written off loans worth Rs 68,600 crore of industrialists. Why is the state government or the Union government not giving any such relief to farmers? We demand that all debts of farmers should be waived off as they have suffered major losses because of the lockdown.” The party also demanded economic assistance for self-employed and daily wage earners who are facing major crisis due to lockdown. Chavda also demanded better facilities for frontline workers who are battling spread of the pandemic. Targeting chief minister Vijay Rupani, Amit Chavda asked if the CM was running the government, or a few officers were. “The CM decides something and officers have been changing the decision. Who is running the government, the CM or officers?” asked Chavda. He said that instead of depending on officers, the CM must reach out to people affected by the pandemic and lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-seeks-loan-waiver-for-farmers/articleshow/75480846.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||41 doctors retire, but will continue for 2 more months||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 41 doctors retired from the government medical college hospitals on Thursday. The retired doctors and other health workers, however, will continue for two more months on an ad hoc basis. This is the first batch of doctors who are retiring from the medical education service after the retirement age was increased to 62 from 60 in 2017. There was hefty lobbying to extend the retirement age for the second time but the state government did not approve the proposal. More number of doctors who retired are from Thiruvananthapuram medical college: 13. In addition to this, joint director of medical education has also retired. From Kottayam medical college hospital 11 doctors, from Kozhikode MCH five doctors, Alappuzha MCH two doctors, Kollam MCH two doctors, Thrissur MCH seven doctors and from Idukki MCH one doctor got retired. The retirement age of doctors was increased to 62 from 60 in 2017 when the same bunch of senior doctors were due for retirement that year. However, a proposal was mooted to increase the retirement age to 65 along with the pay revision for the medical college doctors. The finance department had opposed the proposal to increase the retirement age. The finance department had made it clear that it would affect the prospects of several junior doctors. The health department was also against increasing the retirement age further. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) was also against increasing the retirement age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/41-doctors-retire-but-will-continue-for-2-more-months/articleshow/75478615.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Contact tehsildars for returning home amid lockdown||Nashik: Migrants workers, students, and stranded tourists who are stuck anywhere across the country can now return home by simply contacting the tehsildars of the place they are stuck at and providing all the necessary details. The same will then be forwarded to the district collector of the place they are stranded in as well as the district collectors of their respective hometowns. After approval from both the ends, the said people will be allowed to travel home. The news has brought respite to many who are stuck away from home due to the nationwide lockdown. “This is good news for unregistered workers and those who are stranded across the state. While the list of migrant workers who have been put up in shelter homes is ready with the district administration, there are tourists, students, pilgrims and others who have been stranded at various places. They too will be able to return home after seeking necessary permission from the district collectors of their native places,” deputy collector Nitin Mundaware said. The movement of people from one place to another will only be allowed if the officers of the corresponding areas allow the departure or arrival. “The movement will begin only after a complete health check-up of the people and on the condition that they will be quarantined after reaching their homes,” the Mundaware said, adding that the respective officials of the state and the centre have to be informed about the entire process and comply with it. Any person whose health is questionable at the time of initiating the travel will be declined permission to travel. Also, he/she will receive treatment before being allowed to commence the journey further, Mundaware added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/contact-tehsildars-for-returning-home-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75479858.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 1, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Women self help group stitches 3,000 face masks a day to combat Covid-19||BAREILLY: In an attempt to fight the coronavirus pandemic, some 60 members of a women self-help group at Mohanpur village, under Bithri Chainpur block of Bareilly, have been stitching approximately 3,000 face masks a day and selling them to local government bodies, medical stores and shops under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM). These women are stitching three-layered cotton masks at a wedding hall, that has been taken over by the SHG. The face masks are being sold at Rs 20 each. NRLM is a poverty alleviation project implemented by ministry of rural development, Government of India, with an aim to promote self-employment among rural poor. Block mission manager, Rashtriya Gramin Ajaivika Mission (NRLM), Manju Rathod told TOI, “Under the mission, women from rural areas in the district who were facing hardships due to the lockdown, joined to stitch face masks in order to earn some money while assisting in the ongoing fight against Covid-19. Stalls have been put up at Vikas Bhavan as well as in Bithri block for selling these face masks at Rs 20 a piece.” Rathod added, “To local government bodies, the face masks are being sold at Rs 13.60 each. The masks are also being sold at medical stores and shops for Rs 20 each. To undertake stitching work, a wedding hall has been occupied where sewing machines have been set up. All the women wear face masks and maintain social distancing. Women members have earned around Rs 2 lakh so far.” Commending the women for their work, Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar said, “Approximately 50,000 masks have so far been prepared and dispatched by these women. We are providing the face masks to sanitation workers among others, free of cost."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/women-self-help-group-stitches-3k-face-masks-a-day-to-combat-covis-19/articleshow/75478597.cms||Maria Khan
May 1, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt starts process of bringing back stranded residents from various states||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has stepped up its efforts to bring back people of the state who were stuck in different states of the country due to the lockdown. To help such people, the state government has released a link https://dsclservices.in/uttarakhand-migrant-registration.php where those who are stranded can register themselves. According to officials, over 33,000 people have registered themselves using the link and informed the government about their present status and location. Officials said that the state government is prepared to use around 500 buses for the purpose for bringing back stranded people. The list of those who are stranded includes students, tourists, seers and people who had gone to meet relatives but were caught by surprise due to the lockdown and could not return back home. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat also shared the link on his Twitter handle and asked such people to enroll themselves. Through his tweet, the CM also assured the stranded people that the state government was taking the required steps to bring them back home.Meanwhile, state urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said,"We understand that over a month has passed by since people from the state were stranded in other locations but we could not do much since strict measures were required to check the number of positive patients." He added that the government was working to collate the data of all those who are stranded. "After the entire data is compiled, we will use our state buses to bring people back," added Kaushik.He further said that medical check ups of all those who are brought back will also be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-starts-process-of-bringing-back-stranded-residents-from-various-states/articleshow/75479845.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Armed with police nod, board examiners to speed up work||Nagpur: Armed with travel passes from police, state board paper examiners are now getting ready to complete the evaluation process which had come to a halt due to the lockdown. On Thursday, divisional board chairman Ravikant Deshpande informed his subordinates through an official communique that police officials have approved passes for examiners to both travel and collect answersheets, and to submit it to divisional board office. Deshpande informed education officials in neighbouring districts that the permission has been given by Inspector General (IG) of Nagpur range, hence they should immediately get on with the task of completing SSC and HSC exam evaluation formalities. Nagpur divisional board office had sent an application to the IG office on April 27, asking for a special concession regarding travel for teachers who are involved in checking of crucial SSC and HSC papers. The approval came on April 29. Ashok Gavhankar, an exam moderator for HSC, said, “All evaluation work for HSC is already complete. The only thing remaining is that we are yet to submit papers to board office because movement of teachers is restricted. For Std X, I believe almost everything is done, except correction of the last paper which was held. If someone has to come from Gadchiroli to submit papers here in Nagpur, there were obviously many security concerns. Now that police permission has come, I am sure things will speed up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armed-with-police-nod-board-examiners-to-speed-up-work/articleshow/75482016.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police active on ShareChat to create awareness||Thiruvananthapuram: State police, which have been using traditional social media to create awareness about Covid-19, have been betting big on ShareChat as well to reach out to the public. All information about its initiatives are already available in ShareChat and more than 60 posts have been shared over the past two months about Covid-19 by the police through the platform. These have reached over eight lakh viewers till date. The shares about Covid-19 by the police include video bytes from celebrities, animated videos for creating awareness, trolls, pictures showing the helpline numbers etc. Police are also sharing videos like fitness videos for lockdown period and information about fake news and videos through the platform. Police are sharing all these as #Keralapolice through ShareChat. Even before Covid-19 hit the state, police have been using the platform for communicating with Malayalam-speaking viewers. With Covid-19 outbreak and police needing more space to reach out to public, the use of ShareChat is being utilized by the police in a larger way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-active-on-sharechat-to-create-awareness/articleshow/75478661.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Former MLA’s daughter ends life in Dhrol||Rajkot: Daughter of a former BJP MLA committed suicide in Dhrol town of Jamnagar district, reportedly because she was depressed over the uncertainty about her foreign study plans due to the lockdown.Riddhi Chawda (24), daughter of Meghji Chavda, the former legislator from Kalavad assembly constituency, hanged herself from the ceiling fan in their bungalow on Fulvadi Raod on Wednesday. She took the drastic step when Chavda and his wife left for Porbandar in the morning to visit an ailing relative. Upon returning home in the evening, the parents were shocked to see Riddhi hanging. “When the MLA inquired with neighbours, they said that Riddhi was talking normally with everybody till afternoon,” said investigating officer M P Mori of Dhrol police station. Riddhi had completed her bachelors in engineering from Ahmedabad and sought admission in a Canadian university to do her masters. Preliminary investigation revealed that she had even paid the fees to the foreign university, said Mori.“Chavda told us that she might have taken the extreme step due to depression as her foreign study plans were uncertain. There had been no communication from the Canadian university too, which upset Riddhi further, ” the officer said. Riddhi also has an elder brother. Chavda had represented the Kalavad constituency from 2012 to 2017. In 2012, the constituency was declared reserved for scheduled caste (SC) after which Chavda was nominated by the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/former-mlas-daughter-ends-life-in-dhrol/articleshow/75478655.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Dhantoli residents move HC against bringing Covid patients to their area||Nagpur: A residents’ association has approached Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court praying for cancelling municipal commissioner’s orders of April 23 to take over private hospitals for accommodating Covid-19 patients. While issuing notices to respondents including Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Justice Manish Pitale on Thursday directed its counsel Sudhir Puranik to file an affidavit on total number of beds available in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) for coronavirus patients. All of them were asked to file replies before May 5, the next hearing date. The judge also made it clear that until the beds in both government hospitals are full, they can’t shift patients to private hospitals. The directives came while hearing a civil application filed by Dhantoli Nagarik Mandal in its PIL (No65/2012) opposing blind permissions granted to private hospitals in their area that had led to severe congestion and traffic snarls. According to the NMC officials, both hospitals have the combined capacity to accommodate 1,400 patients which could be stretched to 2,200 in case of a jump in the number of Covid-19 patients. Quoting case of Avanti Institute of Cardiology run by Dr UK Mahorkar, the petitioners through counsels Ashutosh Dharmadhikari and Ashwin Deshpande informed it also received a communication from the civic body for getting ready to accommodate the Covid-19 patients. According to them, it’s a heart institute and keeping Covid patients there would be dangerous for others taking treatment for cardiovascular diseases there. “Dhantoli is already a very congested area full of hospitals, business and residential complexes. If such patients are kept in hospitals there, there’s threat the disease may spread in the area. If all positive patients are from Satranjipura and Mominpura areas, there’s no point in shifting them all the way to Dhantoli,” they contended. While suggesting that Hotel Chidambara’s building, vacant since many years, be used for such purposes, the lawyers pointed out that communication issued by NMC commissioner Tukaram Munde under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, was contrary to the Act’s provisions. Terming the NMC’s communication arbitrary and illegal, the petitioner prayed for staying it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dhantoli-residents-move-hc-against-bringing-covid-patients-to-their-area/articleshow/75480845.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi readies plan to bring its own back||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Thursday appointed nodal officers to coordinate the efforts of sending and bringing back stranded students, pilgrims, tourists and other people from different states. The Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday had allowed interstate movement of stranded people. While DMs will be nodal officers for their district, one official has been tasked with being in touch with the resident commissioners of other states. Another official has been asked to facilitate transportation and a special commissioner of police has been given the responsibility to maintain law and order during transportation, government sources said. The detailed order was being prepared till late on Thursday. An official said that an online application system is being created to gather information about Delhiites stranded in other states. “The stranded people or their friends and family members can upload the details to enable the government to trace them,” added the official. “A detailed protocol is being developed because the process of bringing people back is an extensive exercise involving multiple states, health screening, arrangement of transportation and travel with social distancing,” said the official. The government is in touch with private bus operators to bring back around 800 students stranded in Kota district of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, a survey has been started in shelter homes and schools where migrant workers have been lodged to identify those who want to go to their hometowns. Around 16,000 people are staying in 506 shelters. The migrant workers belonging to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and other states are being given good and other facilities at the shelters. “Many of the migrants want to go back to their hometowns to unite with their family members. They are drowning in anxiety over the condition of their family members,” an official said. After noting the basic details of the migrants willing to return to their hometowns, a consolidated list will be submitted to chief secretary Vijay Dev, who will direct nodal officers to coordinate with the states concerned. The government started the planning a day after the MHA order. Apart from the students, tourists and pilgrims, many individuals are stuck at their relative’s places, which they were visiting when the lockdown started, and now want to return. All stranded people will be screened before travelling. Only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to proceed. On arrival, they will be assessed by authorities and kept in home quarantine, unless their health requires institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-readies-plan-to-bring-its-own-back/articleshow/75481599.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||No cut in salary, pension of govt employees: Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Thursday that despite a major fall in the state government’s income from VAT, GST and other taxes, the government will not deduct any amount from the salaries and pensions of government employees. Patel in a statement said that industrial and commercial activity has come to a standstill because of the lockdown and this has badly impacted government income from GST, VAT and other sources. “Despite this constraint, the government has planned to pay salary and pension to all government employees according to the monthly salary schedule. A total of 5.38 lakh employees will get around Rs 2,600 crore in the form of salary while 4.57 lakh pensioners will get Rs 1,400 crore as pension. A sum of Rs 4,000 crore will be paid in a week,” Patel said. Although the state government has cancelled all events to mark the Gujarat Foundation Day, chief minister Vijay Rupani wished all citizens on the 60th Foundation Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-cut-in-salary-pension-of-govt-employees-nitin-patel/articleshow/75480854.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Telangana labourers sneaking into Gadchiroli through Maoist dens||Nagpur: Migrant labourers from three districts of Telangana are sneaking into Gadchiroli district through forested stretches and swimming across two rivers, Pranhita and Godavari, leaving the Gadchiroli administration in a quandary. With most of the 25 police check posts on the roads, the labourers are finding it easy to move into Gadchiroli from Telangana, a Covid-19 hotspot. Gadchiroli is still in the green zone, means not a single Covid-19 case has been reported from the district. So, the administration has decided to draw attention of collectors of Asifabad, Mancherial and Bhulapalli districts in Telangana regarding the migrant labourers illegally crossing the state borders through the highly sensitive Maoist-affected zones. The district shares a 136km border with Telangana, 571km with Chhattisgarh, 155km with Chandrapur, 10km with Bhandara and 83km with Gondia. It’s learnt, police are compelled to work under heightened threat from Maoists guerrillas along the Telangana and Chhattisgarh borders. Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla is disappointed with the alleged ignorance of the administration in the three Telangana districts. “These labourers returning to Gadchiroli are working for chilli traders in Telangana. These poor people are risking their lives by trying to cross the rivers along with women and children. There is also a fear of viral spread,” said the collector. Singla added that the state has already taken up the issue of inter-state migrant movement at the highest level. Singla said the village team of district administration is sending feedback about movement of migrant labourers, who are often sighted crossing through forested stretches and villages. “We have already quarantined around 600-700 migrant labourers at Sironcha and another 200-300 at Aheri,” the collector said. SP Shailesh Balkawade said that four offences have been registered earlier this week against 34 migrant workers. “We have already asked the police volunteers in villages, sarpanchs and other associates to share information about migrant labourers,” he said adding that it is not possible to seal borders in the forested patch. Balkawade said the migrant labourers are immediately apprehended by police once information is received. “Police conduct screening and immediately send them to institutional quarantine once they are caught. Villagers are not allowing outsiders to enter their villages,” the SP said. Balkawade also said maintaining Gadchiroli a green zone is a major challenge now as it is hemmed between two hotspots — Telangana and Nagpur. “There is high alert along borders of Chandrapur, Gondia and Bhandara, hence chances of migrants illegally entering Gadchiroli from there is lesser,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/telangana-labourers-sneaking-into-gadchiroli-through-maoist-dens/articleshow/75480851.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court refuses to interfere in transfer of railway cop||MADURAI: Refusing to interfere with the transfer order of a government railway police (GRP) personnel from Tirunelveli to Chennai, the Madras high court has granted him time till May 11 to join duty. R Premkumar, a GRP head constable at the railway police station in Tirunelveli district, was transferred to the Egmore railway police station in Chennai in an order dated March 24. The petitioner had moved the high court Madurai bench challenging his transfer order. Hearing the plea on Wednesday, justice C V Karthikeyan observed that since it is an issue of transfer and an administrative order, it may not be proper on the part of the court to examine either reasons for transfer or also the grievances of the petitioner. The judge observed that though the petitioner has been relieved from duty, he has still not joined at Chennai. In view of the circumstances, particularly of the Covid-19 pandemic, wherein no movement is practically possible, particularly from the southern part of the state to Chennai, relief is granted to the petitioner to join duty at Chennai on or before May 11. He should submit a representation to the authorities explaining the reasons for the delay in joining duty and the same may be considered by the authorities, the judge observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-transfer-of-rly-cop/articleshow/75480863.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||VCs suggest online, OMR format for college exams||AHMEDABAD: In view of the state government’s recent decision to conduct examination for college students, a meeting of vice-chancellors was held on Thursday with state government officials through video conferencing. At the meeting, some of the vice-chancellors suggested that the exam be conducted online and that it be MCQ/OMR format, said sources. “This will save time and the evaluation process can also be completed quickly,” said a college official. The college annual exams got deferred this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the disease. “We have received some suggestions from the vice-chancellors. The state government will look into them and soon announce the future course of action,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary (higher and technical education). The state government recently clarified that unlike for schools, annual examination will be conducted for colleges affiliated with various universities. Last month, the government had announced to promote all school students of Gujarat en masse, given the lockdown across the country. The government is also expected to announce the annual examination dates for colleges in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vcs-suggest-online-omr-format-for-college-exams/articleshow/75480860.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Davanagere could come under red zone||Davanagere: Davanagere district is staring at the possibility of coming under red zone after a 69-year-old SARI patient tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. P-556 from Jalinagar Layout here was admitted to the district hospital on April 28. After his samples tested positive, he was shifted to the covid ward of the hospital. He is responding well to the treatment, said DC Mahantesh Bilagi. Jalinagar Layout has been declared as a containment zone and the and an additional 5-kms radius has been categorised as buffer zone. The district has two active Covid-19 cases currently. Of the four cases reported in the district, two have recovered, said an official release. All the relaxations that were given to the district as per green zone guidelines were withdrawn on Wednesday, the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-could-come-under-red-zone/articleshow/75478663.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||51% of Indian cos to freeze hiring for 6 months: Study||Ahmedabad: Battling revenue shortfalls and disrupted cash cycle due to the lockdown, at least 51% of Indian corporate houses have decided to freeze hiring for at least six months, according to a survey conducted by a Vadodara-based human resources consultancy firm, NamanHR. By mid-May, this number will go up to 65%, adds the survey, which was conducted across some 200 corporate houses in India in the engineering, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, infrastructure, chemicals, services and EPC sectors.“Declining revenues due to disruption of the cash flow cycle during the lockdown coupled with weak projections is driving companies to freeze recruitment. At this point, some 32% companies are looking at a headcount reduction, mainly in the engineering and manufacturing sectors. However, downsizing is also expected in pharma and chemicals sector where 15% of companies are mulling over headcount reductions and 20% in the services sector are looking at layoffs,” said Samir Parikh, founder, Naman HR.Parikh added that companies are looking at downsizing by between 4% and 25%. “The trend in Gujarat’s companies is also in line with those of India,” he said.“As far as payment of salaries and incentives are concerned, roughly 32% of engineering and manufacturing companies are considering slashing salaries, while 25% services sector companies and 8% of pharma firms will also consider paycuts,” said Parikh.Despite plans to freeze recruitments, downsize and cut salaries, companies have retained their growth targets for the financial year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/51-of-indian-cos-to-freeze-hiring-for-6-months-study/articleshow/75480875.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants from J&K, Kerala, HP & others stranded in Vidarbha||Nagpur: As district authorities prepare to send migrant workers and other stranded persons back to their homes, a list of more than 26,500 persons has been drawn up in Vidarbha. There is no break up of, though, the number of migrant workers and others. The list shows that people from as far as Jammu and Kashmir in the north, and Kerala down south, are stranded in Vidarbha. There are four each from these two states. The four from J&K are held up in Gondia. There is one each from Kerala in Gondia and Gadchiroli, as two from the state remain stranded in Chandrapur. In Nagpur division, there are 20,108 persons, with over 6,500 in Amravati division. The Nagpur and Amravati divisions cover east and western parts of Vidarbha region. So far there has been no request from other state governments to take back persons from Vidarbha stranded in their areas. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the state government, those coming back to Maharashtra will have to stay in quarantine for 14 days, either at home or institutional. A glance at the list shows that the highest number of people here is from Madhya Pradesh. In Nagpur division, there are 4,552 persons from Madhya Pradesh, majority of whom are expected to be migrant labourers. This is followed by 3,470 from Bihar, 2,600 odd from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand each, and 2,300 from Chhattisgarh. The list drawn up for the division shows 7,900 odd persons from other parts of Maharashtra stranded here too. In Amravati division, out of 6,500 odd, 1,800 are from districts like Balaghat, Morena, and Barwani in Madhya Pradesh. This is followed by 600 and 550 each from UP and Rajasthan, said an official. There are 62 from Delhi and those in small numbers from states like Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra and Tamil Nadu too. Further process of repatriation will begin now, said officials in the respective divisional commissionerates. According to the SOP, only those not suffering from Covid-19 or influenza like symptoms will be allowed to go. The movement will only happen after mutual consent of collectors of sending and receiving districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-from-jk-kerala-hp-others-stranded-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75480858.cms||Shishir Arya
May 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur road block issues partially solved||Kannur: After the confusion regarding the lockdown that prevailed for over 10 days in Kannur as police blocked all major roads in Covid containment zones (CCZ) in the district and even some roads in non-hotspots, a new strategy has been put in place. Now, police have started guarding all the blocked spots to open it in case of emergency, especially to take the patients to hospital, though the district collector wanted the blockade to be reduced in non-hotspots. As per the new order by the district police chief, police have deployed one police officer each in the 450 isolation points identified in the CCZ in the district and the person would be on duty for 24 hours. This decision has been taken after the meeting of the MPs and MLAs last day, chaired by district collector TV Subhash, decided that there should be arrangements to open the roads in emergency situation. Though the collector had ordered there is need for blockade of roads and restricting to single entry and exit only in hotspot LSGs, the blockade is still there in most of the places. “Though the barricades are there, we have made sure the movements of vehicles for essential services are not affected, and if there is any confusion, it would be addressed,” said the collector. But the police officials are concerned if the 24-hour duty by a single police officer in a spot would be possible though they have not officially made any complaint. There were reports that the paths of ambulances were blocked and even dialysis patients were sent back. Also, there were complaints about hindering essential services like distribution of LPG, newspaper, milk, and home delivery of goods through volunteers, following which the district collector issued the order in his capacity as the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Though the blockade is still there, now it is expected that there would be some ease of move for essential services, though the free movement of other vehicles would not be easy. The collector said the decision regarding the blocking or barricading of roads has to be taken by police in consultation with the incident commander, medical officer concerned and the local body. Meanwhile, though there is restriction for the shops in the hotspots, and only medical stores, ration shops and a few grocery shops for the home delivery of essential commodities are permitted, there are some more relaxations in the non-hotspots and other shops are also permitted to open subject to some restrictions. At the same time, the shop owners are upset about the way the roads have been blocked even in the non-hot spots. If there is no measure to remove the blockade in the non-hotspots, they will be forced to resort to agitation, warned Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-road-block-issues-partially-solved/articleshow/75478713.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nashik||MP urges govt to buy onions via Nafed||Nashik: Local MP Bharati Pawar has urged the government to procure onions through the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed). She has sent a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urging him to procure onions in huge quantities from farmers at good rates. Nashik district is known for producing quality onions. Currently, the harvest of fresh summer onions has gained momentum, but farmers are not getting good prices due to the lockdown, Pawar said in her letter. The wholesale onion prices have dropped over the past few days and farmers are incurring huge losses. “The Centre has directed Nafed to procure onions. We want the government to increase the onion procurement target and buy onions from farmers through Nafed with better rates,” she said. At present, the average wholesale onion prices have dropped to Rs 850 per quintal. The cost of growing onions is around Rs 900 per quintal and farmers incur losses if the prices fall below that. The Centre has decided to create a buffer stock of onions to meet the scarcity between July and September. The Centre had directed Nafed to procure 50,000 tonne of onions at the earliest. Nafed has plans to complete the procurement by May-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mp-urges-govt-to-buy-onions-via-nafed/articleshow/75479900.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hope and despair||“ I couldn’t see my brother one last time” Sunny Dev Kumar On April 24, a call from home shattered Sunny Dev Kumar’s life. His beloved younger brother, all of 22, had drowned in the village pond. Since then, Sunny has been grieving in silence. He is also consumed by the thought of his aging parents, who are left alone there; but there’s little he can do from so far away. “I hope the sarkar arranges for us to go home soon,” says the 24-year-old from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The desperation in his voice is hard to miss. “I could not see my brother for one last time...Maybe if I was there, something like this wouldn’t have happened...I couldn’t even be there for his last rites,” Sunny adds, paying little heed to questions about whether he’d want to come back, once all this is over and normalcy sets in. Memories of his little brother are all that’s on his mind at the moment. “My six-year-old son needs me” Geeta Das It has been more than six months since Geeta Das last saw her first born – a six-year-old boy. He lives with her in-laws in Malda district of West Bengal. Hundreds from her hometown travel to big cities – Delhi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru – every year, in search of work. Like them, Geeta too undertook the journey with her husband and younger child last year. “We came thinking it was a matter of a few months. But now, with the lockdown, we are stranded. I just want to return to my son,” a teary-eyed Geeta says, with the three-year-old in her arm. "Yes, we get food here, but as mother I worry about my child and how he is coping. I know he misses me too. Even my in-laws are old, they also need us,” Geeta adds, unperturbed by the scorching afternoon sun. “ I eat twice a day, but my family goes hungry” Mohd Haleem Sole breadwinner for a family of six, Mohd Haleem can barely hold back his tears as he starts speaking about the dire strait that they are in right now. “There is hardly any food for them to eat. My old father is borrowing from whoever he can, to make ends meet. Since he is ailing, he cannot even work in the fields – as he earlier did – to earn some money,” says the 37-year-old, who makes about Rs 600 to Rs 700 a day working at a construction site in the city. Though he has made no money since the lockdown - to take home with him when he returns – Haleem is sure he can do something to support his wife, children and parents, once he is back in his village in Murshidabad, West Bengal. “I am their only hope. It kills me to think that I am getting two square meals here, while my family is going to bed hungry. I just want to go back to them as soon as possible,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hope-and-despair/articleshow/75480889.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Over Rs11 cr withdrawn from PF accounts in April||Nashik: As many as 4,908 employees, connected with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) withdrew over Rs 11 crore from their provident fund (PF) accounts in the month of April. The Centre has notified a special withdrawal provision under the EPFO scheme due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Under this provision, non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is admissible. The scheme was introduced to help people who are under financial stress owing to the ongoing lockdown. Moreover, the amount is being disbursed on non-refundable basis. An EPFO official said employees from across the region had applied for partial PF withdrawal in April. The Nashik region of EPFO includes five districts — Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Nandurbar and Dhule districts — and there are around 17 lakh PF accounts in Nashik regional office of EPFO along with 1.30 lakh pensioners. "We have also deposited pension amount worth Rs 19.14 crore for the month of April in bank accounts of over 1.30 lakh pensioners in the region," Moreover, the Centre has also given relief to businesses having less than 100 workers in their establishments. The central government has decided to pay both the contribution for three months — from March to May. There are 5,030 industries and establishments in Nashik region that will benefit from this scheme. "But only 1,176 establishments have availed of the scheme so far and the centre had deposited the amount worth Rs 2.68 crore contribution of the employees in the PF accounts of their employees," the official said. The Nashik Regional office of EPFO has appealed to the remaining 3,861 industries and establishments to take advantage of the scheme. But they will have to file an electronic challan-cum-return for taking benefit of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-rs11-cr-withdrawn-from-pf-accounts-in-april/articleshow/75479894.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||City sees a drop in death count during lockdown||Nagpur: The city has recorded a dramatic fall in the number of ‘natural’ deaths at a time when coronavirus casualties are more heard of not just from the state but across the globe. According to a study by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the city has registered 22% drop in the number of deaths due to natural causes in March-April 2020 than in the corresponding period of 2019. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “The NMC study was aimed at analysing whether the epidemic is underreported or not and whether the death rate has increased. The study shows that between March and April 2019, the city had recorded 3,408 deaths. This year, 2,670 deaths have been reported during the same period.” The study suggested that Covid-19 deaths, which are recorded separately and generally announced before compiling overall mortality data, were not being underreported. Joshi, however, attributed the reduction in natural death cases to lesser pollution and fewer road accidents due to lockdown. Echoing Joshi, city psychologists said coronavirus scare and especially lockdown played a key role in reduction in natural deaths. With lockdown, senior citizens are getting the required attention, they say. “If we’re not seeing increase in deaths, it seems that people are happy and enjoying life in lockdown,” they added. Fewer murders too: The data procured from Nagpur police too revealed lesser number of murders during March and April this year than in the same period last year. In March and April 2019, the city recorded 16 murders as against nine this year. Sources in crime branch police said the lockdown, especially closure of wine shops, played a vital role in curbing crime rate. Decline in road accidents: The nationwide lockdown brought down the rate of accidents. In 2019, the city traffic police had recorded 55 deaths in March and April 2019, which saw a drastic drop during the same period this year to 14. This is due to barricading most of the roads to prevent spreading of coronavirus, said a senior traffic police inspector. “Road accident cases, and even general patients have been coming in fewer numbers,” said Dr Shishir Shrivastava, who has a hospital on Koradi Road. He said the number of patients coming to the hospital has reduced by almost 50%. “We used to get at least 10 accident-related cases every day. But after the lockdown, we’re receiving hardly any cases in a week,” said another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-sees-a-drop-in-death-count-during-lockdown/articleshow/75480880.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 1, 2020||India||45,000 desis abroad register to return, number set to rise||NEW DELHI: Around 40,000 Indian nationals abroad have registered with Indian missions across the globe for return to India, official sources here said. While the number may include some duplications, it is only expected to rise significantly in the next few days. Many of those who have registered are in Gulf countries looking to return, as the number of Indian nationals infected with Covid-19 in the region continues to increase. Close to 25,000 had registered in Dubai alone with the Indian consulate. “We are trying to remove the duplications but the number is still huge as the registration just opened,’’ said a source, adding that the evacuation was going to be a huge logistical challenge. There are more than 8 million Indians living in the Gulf region. The foreign ministry said Thursday it was aware of the inconveniences being faced by Indians overseas and that the issue of their evacuation was receiving attention from the government. “You’d appreciate that flights have remained suspended since the lockdown started. Our missions are making exceptional efforts to provide food and shelter to the stranded Indians. They are also working with local authorities to help those whose visas have expired,’’ said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. As has been reported, apart from using commercial flights, the government is also looking to deploy naval ships and military aircraft for bringing back Indian nationals. As the first step for evacuation, the Indian missions are looking to create a database for registration of families and individuals who want to return because of the Covid-19 issue. As the Indian consulate in Dubai clarified Thursday, registration alone won’t guarantee a seat in any flight to India once the lockdown ends. The database is first meant to estimate the number of people who want to travel and to what all places. This will then be used to ensure proper planning for receiving Indian nationals here in a way which prevents any further spread of Covid-19 in India. After looking at the response to the database, the government will then notify conditions for travelling on an aircraft to India. Sources said this may include screening of passengers for the virus before they are allowed to board the flight. ``This can surely be done where the local authorities are willing to provide the facility for testing,’’ said an official. In the first round of evacuation, which happened before the country was placed under lockdown, the government avoided brining in those infected by Covid-19. While those infected then were mostly in Iran, now Indian nationals carrying the virus are spread over 53 countries. The figure was around 6,300, as first reported by TOI on April 26, at last count with maximum infections in Singapore. The Gulf region together then accounted for close to 3,000 cases. India's most successful, and dramatic, evacuation so far has been the airlifting of 1,70,000 people from Kuwait in 1990 after the country was invaded by Iraq.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/45000-desis-abroad-register-to-return-number-set-to-rise/articleshow/75482583.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Traders resist auction of loose onions in Lasalgaon||Nashik: Traders are unwilling to start auction of loose onions (instead of in sacks) over the issue of workers’ transportation. A meeting between the traders and Lasalgaon APMC officials held on Thursday failed to reach a concrete decision. The traders said they will require an adequate number of workers if they were to start the auction of loose onions. The APMC officials said workers usually come to the market yard on pick-up vans, but the police have been acting against them as social distancing is not maintained onboard the pick-ups. Therefore, the traders want to settle this issue first before starting auction of loose onions. Presently, we are conducting onion auction in sacks. Farmers have to bring their onions in sacks. But there is demand from farmers and other agencies to start onion auction in a loose format, instead of sacks, said APMC officials. “We have now decided to hold a joint meeting of traders, APMC officials, police administration and government officials to find a solution,” said APMC officials. The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) also wants to start procurement of onions from Lasalgaon, but it wants to start the onion auctions in the loose format, said the APMC officials. “We had a discussion with the APMC officials over auctions of loose onions, instead of the auction in sacks. The major point of contention is: How to bring workers? Transporting the workers is a big issue and we are going to hold talks with government officials, said Nandakumar Daga, president, Lasalgaon onion traders’ association. Meanwhile, the average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon dropped marginally by Rs 50 a quintal on Thursday due to lack of demand in comparison to the supply. The average wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon APMC were recorded at Rs 850 per quintal on Thursday, against Rs 900 per quintal on Wednesday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon were recorded at Rs 500 and Rs 912 per quintal, respectively, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traders-resist-auction-of-loose-onions-in-lasalgaon/articleshow/75479912.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||MMC to allot up to 10 credit points to corona warrior doctors||Nagpur: Doctors who are serving Covid-19 patients in isolation wards, Covid hospitals, or in fever clinics across the state will get up to 10 credit points from the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). Credit points are very important for registered medical practitioners (RMPs) in Maharashtra to get their registration renewed after every 5 years. Doctors have to collect 30 credit points in five years of their registration period. Generally, they get credit points by attending the Continuous Medical Education (CME) events held across the years by medical associations. Those who fail to collect 30 credit points are not eligible to renew their professional registration for next five years. “Registered Medical Practitioners are at the forefront of the war against coronavirus are not only facing the daunting task of handling patients, but are also fighting to keep their own worries and emotional stress at bay. They are selfless, hardworking and diligent individuals who save lives on a daily basis. The noble profession of a doctor takes some serious dedication and sacrifice,” reads the circular issued by the MMC today. “Therefore, council has decided to award credit points for doing exemplary work. Award of credit points dedicated to all the doctors to thank them for their vital role in each of our lives. This award is given to acknowledge the doctors who are committed to serve people with all their might,” it concludes. MMC has decided to grant 2 credit points per day up to a maximum of 10 to those doctors who are actively participating in the containment and treatment of COVID-19 patients. To get these points, they have to produce a certificate from the Dean or District Collector or Corporation Health Officer saying that they have actively participated in the above duties. MMC Vice-president Dr Vinky Rughwani said that MMC has taken many such measures to ease the life of doctors working for Covid-19 patients. “We have already issued guidelines for telemedicine practice for doctors to ensure social distancing. Doctors whose MMC registrations are due to renewal between March to May 2020 are given extension of three months. Fresh graduates can now register online and get their registration number to start practice. Today’s decision is a valuable addition to these measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mmc-to-allot-up-to-10-credit-points-to-corona-warrior-doctors/articleshow/75480894.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 1, 2020||Mysuru||7 covid patients discharged in Mysuru, only 25 cases remain||Mysuru: Seven Covid-19 patients were discharged from the designated covid hospital in Mysuru on Thursday, bringing down the tally of active cases in the district to 25. All the seven discharged patients are connected to the Nanjangud cluster. In the last one month, 65 patients have been cured of Covid-19 in Mysuru. Mysuru had reported 90 positive Covid-19 cases, including 74 cases connected to the Nanjangud cluster, and 10 due to patients connected to the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. Till now, 3,499 samples have been tested in Mysuru district for Covid-19. Of the 4,762 who are in isolation, 4,514 have completed 14 days of isolation. With the decline in the number of positive cases, authorities are now planning to test journalists and police personnel, as per a directive of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/7-covid-patients-discharged-in-mysuru-only-25-cases-remain/articleshow/75478724.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Neyyattinkara is new hotspot in T’puram, vigil beefed up||Thiruvananthapuram: After two Covid-positive cases were reported on Wednesday, the capital once again found a position in the hotspot list of the government. Several wards under Neyyatinkara municipality were declared as hotspots by the district administration on Thursday. Wards 1 to 5, 40 to 44 and 37 are the ones that have been declared hotspots by the district administration. On Thursday, the district collector held a meeting with Neyyatinkara and Parassala MLAs and district police chief (rural district) to finalize the restrictions that will be imposed in the hotspot regions. One of the main restrictions will be on the working hours of the shops selling essential commodities in these wards. It has been restricted between 7am and 2pm. The initial decision was to close the shops by noon, but it was extended to two more hours following requests from the peoples’ representatives. Shops selling food grains, grocery and vegetables will function from 7 am to 2 pm. Restaurants can function till 7 pm, but only parcel services will be allowed. The restrictions are not applicable for the working hours of medical stores. The police will also be regulating the entry and exit of people into the hotspot regions. Rural SP B Ashok said that since the hotspot region includes inter-state highway stretch, enforcing a total lockdown was a difficult task. “We will have to allow the vehicular movement along the highway. However, we will be strictly monitoring each vehicle that enters the region,” the SP said adding that the entry/exit points also lie on the national highway stretch. Injivila near Kaliyikkavila state border and Pravachambalam under Balaramapuram police station limits are the entry/exit points. Neyyatinkara DSP S Anilkumar said that only vehicles transporting food grains and vegetables will be allowed to cross the border. Ambulances carrying emergency medical cases too will be allowed to pass. A medical team led by a government doctor has been deployed at the checkpoint at Injivila along with the police to check the patients being transported in ambulances. The police have closed as many as 47 major roads to prevent people from entering or exiting the hotspot region. They even dumbed clay to close bylanes at several locations. It was on Wednesday, two men were confirmed Covid-19 positive at Neyyatinkara. They were both admitted in a private hospital at Neyyatinkara. As many as 49 members of the staff of the hospital were put under observation. This includes seven doctors and 16 nurses. As many as 29 staff of Parassala government hospital too were put under observation as one of them had first gone to that hospital before getting admitted in the private hospital at Neyyatinkara. Seven relatives of the second patient and 16 staff of a hospital where he sought treatment initially have also gone under quarantine. The details of people who have been in touch with the two patients are being collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/neyyattinkara-is-new-hotspot-in-tpuram-vigil-beefed-up/articleshow/75478753.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kochi||3 from Thrissur die in the Gulf||Thrissur: Three persons from Thrissur died in different countries in the Gulf while they were undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19. Relatives gave their names as Palappetty Kareem Haji (62) of Thiruvathra near Chavakkad, Rafeeq (40) of Vellarakkad near Erumapetty and Thoppil Veettil Abdul Gafoor (54) of Valappad. Relatives said Haji died in a hospital in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday night where he was undergoing treatment for the past two weeks and was shifted to the ICU two days ago after his condition worsened. Haji was running a business in Abu Dhabi and was active in several organizations like KMCC and Abu Dhabi Islamic Centre. Gafoor, who worked as a tailor in Kuwait, died early on Thursday. He was under treatment for the past couple of days and was shifted to a new hospital when his condition worsened. Later, he developed acute pneumonia and died. Gafoor was a member of Thrissur Association of Kuwait City. Rafeeq too developed acute pneumonia, after testing positive for Covid-19 on April 5. He had actually tested negative on April 10. But his condition deteriorated and he breathed his last on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-from-thrissur-die-in-the-gulf/articleshow/75478762.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man in Satellite booked for opening sweets, farsan shop||AHMEDABAD: At a time when even essential goods are difficult to obtain, a man from the Satellite area of city was booked for selling sweets and other snacks items — locally known as farsan, from his shop near Azad Society in Satellite. According to an FIR filed with Satellite police on Thursday, a patrol team got a message from control room at around 10.30am that social distancing was not being maintained outside a shop. Cops also learned from the message that the man was selling non-essential products like sweets and farsan items like ganthiya and fafda. The patrolling team reached the shop near Azad Society and found the accused sitting outside. After primary questioning, police found that the man had flouted lockdown norms and he was booked. Inspector P D Darji of Satellite police said that the man was selling sweets and farsan to customers who had come to an adjacent shop of dairy products. Whenever a customer came to the dairy shop, he approached him or her to sell sweets or farsan. He had displayed sweets and farsan outside his shop when he was caught, said Darji. Though the accused was selling his products for long, he could not be spotted due to the dairy products shop where customers maintained social distance. But as customers of the farsan seller did not maintain social distance on Thursday morning some locals informed police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-in-satellite-booked-for-opening-sweets-farsan-shop/articleshow/75480895.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Students stuck in Kota to be brought home: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Sharka Uruz, a student preparing for NEET at a coaching institute in Kota, was caught unawares when the anti-Covid19 lockdown was announced for the first time. As advised by the government, Uruz decided to stay back in Rajasthan. She and many other students like her who got stuck in the coaching city due to the corona crisis have been facing several challenges since then, ranging from arranging food for themselves to battling depression. Since April 28, the students from Delhi have taken to social media with the hashtag “Kejriwal Help Kota”. Claiming that other states have lent support to their students stranded in Kota, they have also sought the AAP government’s intervention. The photos of the students holding placards reading “Dear Kejriwal, if UP, MP and other states can, then why not Delhi?” and “Send us back home; it is making us mentally sick” have been doing the rounds for the past couple of days. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Twitter: “Delhi government is making arrangements to bring Delhi students back home from Kota.” However, no further details were shared. The central government had recently issued a circular asking the state governments to get their stranded students back. Delhi govt is making arrangements to soon bring Del students back home from Kota— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1588235820000Uruz, a resident of Mandawli in east Delhi, told TOI over phone, “Students from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states have already gone back home. Our government was not doing anything. So, we had to post our requests online. Thankfully, the government has finally woken up to our plight.” Only five other students from Bihar and Jharkhand are left in the Uruz’s hostel. “The open mess was closed long back. Those staying in the hostel were only getting lunch and dinner, but no breakfast. The quality of the food was also poor. However, the coaching centre supported us a lot,” said Uruz. “Living away from family in these uncertain times has been tough. I am not even able to concentrate on my studies,” said Aditya Kumar. Kumar had earlier posted on Twitter, “Before the condition gets worse, please take us back home. Our parents are worried. We the students of Delhi request you to please arrange some means for us so that we can be with our parents soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-stuck-in-kota-to-be-brought-home-cm/articleshow/75481639.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||To keep corona out, in-charge shifts Koradi police station outdoors||Nagpur: With coronavirus infection gripping many men in khaki and after instances like in Pune where cops from an entire police station had to be quarantined, senior police inspector Vazeer Shaikh of Koradi police station has taken an unprecedented step to keep his staff safe. Shaikh, along with his duty officers, has shifted to an makeshift arrangement under a tree outside the porch of the station’s building to prevent complainants from the entering the station building. Adjacent to his ‘chamber’ under the tree there is a pandal which is the ‘station house’ where duty officer and his assistant attend to the complainants. Koradi police station, being located on the city’s border, mostly caters to people from outside the city limits. Apart from local residents, a sizeable chunk from outside the city walks into the police station for some or the other work. Shaikh said that the gate leading to the lounge of the police station, where the station house used to be located, is now closed for the public. The senior cop said that 90% of the people coming to the police station meet the duty officer or the senior inspector. “But then the entire staff is at high risk,” he said. “I cannot allow my entire staff to be quarantined, which will jeopardize security of around 2.5 lakh population under Koradi police station jurisdiction. So, I thought it’s better staffers meet strangers outside the station house,” he said. Apart from maintaining a green and soothing ambience at his ‘outdoor police station’ with flower pots and bird houses, Shaikh also ensured the chairs are kept apart at a safe distance. “I have set up a wash basin too where we are regularly washing our hands, even before and after dealing with the strangers. We spray sanitizers on documents and ask complainants to cleanse their hands too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-keep-corona-out-in-charge-shifts-koradi-police-station-outdoors/articleshow/75480903.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Vid protagonists webinar on Maharashtra Day today on statehood demand||Nagpur: In view of Covid-19 epidemic, Vidarbha statehood protagonists have decided to do away with the protests they plan on the occasion of ‘Maharashtra Day’ on May 1 every year, which they observe as black day. Instead, they’ve decided to conduct a webinar where leading protagonists like former advocate general Shreehari Aney, noted economist Shriniwas Khandewale, former MLA Wamanrao Chatap, Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS) convener Ram Nevle and Nitin Ronghe would talk on why Vidarbha needs statehood and its benefits for the people here. The event would be conducted on Friday from 11am to 12 noon through Zoom App. The citizens from all over the world could participate in the discussions. Initially, the speakers would talk on various topics pertaining to Vidarbha and why it should be separate state due to injustice meted out by the successive state governments over the years. Later, all the participants can speak their hearts out on the same platform and also ask questions to the speakers. Vidarbha Connect president and senior counsel Mukesh Samarth, Vidarbha Economic Development president Shiv Kumar Rao, and renowned chef Vishnu Manohar would also participate in the discussions. According to Vidarbha Connect secretary Dinesh Naidu, who’s one of the organizers of webinar, the Vidarbhites observe May 1 as black day every year and conduct flag hoisting and rallies in all eleven districts and taluka places. “But due to increasing number of Covid-19 cases in entire country, they’ve decided to keep it a low-key affair so that the local administration and police should focus on their duties and not to waste their energies on preventing the statehood protests,” he said. * Webinar on Vidarbha statehood: Date & Time — May 1 from 11am to 12 noon Online platform — Zoom App (https://us04web.zoom.us/j/78895224069 Key speakers — Shreehari Aney, Wamanrao Chatap, Shriniwas Khandewale, Ram Nevle and Nitin Ronghe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-protagonists-webinar-on-maharashtra-day-today-on-statehood-demand/articleshow/75482044.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 1, 2020||Business||Businesses get compliance relief from EPFO||NEW DELHI: The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has eased the compliance burden of businesses by allowing employers to file the monthly Electronic-Challan cum Return (ECR) and make the statutory contributions later. “The ECR can now onwards be filed by an employer without the need of simultaneous payment of contributions and contributions may be paid later after filing the ECR,” EPFO said. Filing of ECR by the employer in time is indicative of employer’s intent to comply and will not therefore attract penal consequences if the dues are paid within the extended time. Employers are required to deposit 24% of an employees salary as part of provident fund and pension obligation every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/businesses-get-compliance-relief-from-epfo/articleshow/75482586.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown extended till May 7 in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI: The deputy commissioner has extended lockdown and Section 144 in Kalaburagi until May 7. Rising number of Covid-19 cases forced the district administration to take the decision, said DC B Sharath. According to the administration, a 23-year-old patient (P-302) from Kavalaga village was discharged from the ESIC hospital on Thursday bringing the total number of recoveries to eight. The district has 39 more active cases. P-302 had contracted the infection from P-274 and was shifted to isolation ward. More quarantine centresAnticipating a possible spike in the number of cases, the district administration has decided to set up quarantine facility in 48 lodges and hotels in Kalaburagi. The primary and secondary contacts of patients will be kept at the new centres and they will be shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC hospital if they test positive for Covid-19, said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-extended-till-may-7-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75478769.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Efforts on to set up Covid test lab in Ahmednagar||Nashik: Ahmednagar district guardian minister Hassan Mushrif said he has requested the state government to set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory in the district. Addressing the media at Ahmednagar district headquarters on Thursday, Mushrif said if a lab becomes operational, the swab test reports would be available to the administration faster. “The entire government machinery has done well to control the spread of the infection in the district. People in the district too must be complimented for extending support by remaining indoors during the lockdown,” added the guardian minister. Mushrif said if any migrant worker returns to the district from any other part of the country, he would be quarantined for 14 days. Man recovers The 31-year-old Covid-19 patient from Alamgir, in Ahmednagar taluka, was discharged from the Evangeline Booth hospital on Thursday following his recovery. District officials said his tests after treatment were negative. With this recovery, a total of 26 patients have recovered and 16 are undergoing treatment at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/efforts-on-to-set-up-covid-test-lab-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75479924.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: NDA uses IT infra to finish syllabus||PUNE: The National Defence Academy (NDA) has adapted to the lockdown and related restrictions by modifying its training activity focussed on optimum utilisation of the on-campus IT infrastructure to ensure continuation of academic curriculum of its 1,900-odd cadets. Ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, the academy ensured that the ‘Thin Clients’ software with cadets, connected through a ‘campus area network’ (CAN), were quickly configured to facilitate online classes, uploading of lecture videos, study materials, online assignments and interface in conformity with the MHRD and JNU guidelines. This has enabled the academy to complete the academic syllabus on schedule. “The exams for the final-term cadets are already in progress. Exams for the junior term will be conducted during the first half of May,” the academy stated in a email response to TOI. “Keeping in view the vulnerability, precautions at NDA were initiated from the beginning of March, wherein, central functions, social gatherings and screenings of movies etc were stopped. Subsequently, based on the instructions from higher headquarters and advisories of the government, conduct of training at the academy has been suitably modified with effect from March 23,” the academy stated. It further added, “While ensuring the requisite social distancing norms, flexibility, adaptability and innovations have guided constructive approach that endeavours to keep NDA campus Covid-free and yet conduct essential training activities.” Academy principal O P Shukla has called a separate meeting of teaching faculties to formulate the strategy to conduct the examination of junior-term cadets (terms I to V) scheduled to begin from May 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nda-uses-it-infra-to-finish-syllabus/articleshow/75481620.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Turning ‘farm to fork’ dream into reality||CHENNAI: For years the concept of ‘farm to fork’ has been confined to individual entrepreneurial attempts, but the Covid-19 lockdown seems to have just hastened the process of turning that dream into a reality. Read the entire story on TOI+How lockdown has helped turn ‘farm to fork’ dream into reality||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/turning-farm-to-fork-dream-into-reality/articleshow/75480899.cms||D Govardan
May 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Assistant inspector booked on graft charge||PUNE: The state anti-corruption bureau, Pune, on Wednesday booked an assistant inspector on the charge of accepting a bribe of Rs15,000 for releasing two vehicles from the Urse toll plaza on the old Pune-Mumbai highway during the ongoing lockdown. The suspect, identified as Satyajeet Adatrao of the highway safety patrol (HSP), fled the spot after becoming aware of a trap laid by the ACB sleuths to catch him red-handed. The ACB has lodged an FIR under the relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code with the Talegaon Dabhade police station. “Adatrao, posted at HSP help centre at Vadaon in Maval taluka, had stopped two trucks transporting spare parts of windmills with necessary permissions at the toll plaza on Wednesday morning. He allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs10,000 each for allowing the vehicles to travel further. After negotiations, the HSP cop reduced the bribe amount to Rs15,000,” an ACB official said. The official said the team received the complaint from the truck driver and laid a trap near the help centre to arrest Adatrao. “We were supposed to catch Adatrao while he was counting the bribe amount of Rs15,000 when he discovered traces of anthracene powder on the currency and managed to flee. We have fanned teams to arrest him,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assistant-inspector-booked-on-graft-charge/articleshow/75481613.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||MP booked for violating lockdown norms||Thiruvananthapuram: Attingal MP Adoor Prakash was booked by Nedumangad police on Thursday on charges of violating lockdown norms after he took part in a public event to distribute essential commodities to poor families. The event was organized by Lawyers’ Congress at Nedumangad to distribute essential commodities to families of advocates’ clerks who were affected by the lockdown as the courts are not functioning. The event was held in front of the Nedumangad Judicial First Class Magistrate Court complex at 11 am. The police have booked around 50 persons, including MP Adoor Prakash, who had attended the event. As many as 11 advocates have also been named in the FIR along with Adoor Prakash. They are Unais Khan, Mahesh Chandran, Anadu Jayan, Shafeer, Abhilash, Sreekumar, Abin, Sudheer, Arji and Kallara Balachandran. The police have invoked sections of IPC 143, 147 and 149 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 118e of Kerala Police Act (causing violation of public order) and section 4(2)(a) of Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance (prohibition of activities like public gathering, celebration or worship). Adoor Prakash has termed the police action as a politically motivated one. In a post uploaded on his social media page later on the day, he asked why there was no action against minister Kadakampally Surendran, who had also attended a similar event on the same day. He wrote that social distancing was maintained in the event in which he attended. The police too were present on the spot. He also alleged that the act committed by Kadakampally Surendran was more serious as the event he participated was held in a school at Pothencode where a Covid-19 death was reported. It was a purely political event in which students were also forced to attend in the name of receiving financial aid raised by the students. The event was nothing but a veiled attack on the principal of the school, who had taken part in the symbolic protest against the government’s move to defer salary of government employees, said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mp-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75478787.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Wakad police distribute Iftar kits||Pune: The Wakad police have come forward to help needy Muslim families by distributing Iftar kits to those who are observing a fast during Ramzan. Police personnel collected contribution and distributed items necessary for Roja-iftar among the families, including dates and fruits. Senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police told TOI, “In the driver colony at Thergaon there are some families who have been suffering due to the lockdown. Most of the bread earners in these families are either autorickshaw or cab drivers. For the past month they haven’t had any earning.” Assistant inspector Harish Mane said the police made kits of these items and distributed them among 60 families. Western Maharashtra president of the All India Quami Tanzeem Zakir Shaikh told TOI that the organization has been distributing packets of dates to 500 needy families for Ramzan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wakad-police-distribute-iftar-kits/articleshow/75481635.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 1, 2020||Pune||Transport department seeks Rs 1,000 crore for MSRTC||PUNE: The state transport department has sought Rs1,000 crore financial assistance from the Centre to tide over the loss suffered by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) during the lockdown period, state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI. He said measures would be taken to cut costs. "On Tuesday, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari held a meeting via video conferencing with all the state transport ministers. He was intimated about the Rs945crore loss suffered by the MSRTC. The loss has been increasing every day," said Parab. MSRTC has a fleet of 19,000 buses. "One option which we are considering is having private bus operators for night buses. This would involve keeping the drivers on these buses. Night buses have very few stops, so the conductors can be removed and engaged in other work," he said. "We need more buses which can run on alternative fuel like CNG, electricity and liquefied natural gas. The acquisition of electric buses is likely to be delayed due to virus outbreak and lockdown. We will seek funds from the Centre for procurement of these buses," Parab said. Earlier, MSRTC had said that inter-district movement would be very limited once the bus services start post the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-dept-seeks-rs-1000crore-for-msrtc/articleshow/75481627.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||DPT fears livestock could spread Covid-19, halts export||RAJKOT: In a late evening decision on Wednesday, the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) in Kandla, Kutch, suspended the export of livestock from Tuna Port saying there was no proof to establish that handling of domesticated goat/sheep doesn’t lead to transmission of Covid-19. The order signed by the DPT traffic manager issued late on Wednesday comes about five days after the port authority granted export permission to cattle breeders. “It was brought to the notice of port administration by various sources that non-transmission of Covid-19 through domesticated goat/sheep has not yet been established while handling them. Hence it has been decided to suspend the handling of livestock at Tuna port barge jetty from April 30 till further orders,” the DPT order read. According to DPT, the exporters also failed to fulfil the standard operating procedure set to curb the spread of Covid-19 during the exporting activity. The first vessel carrying about 4,000 cattle had set sail from Tuna port on Tuesday. This decision on part of the DPT has left about 40,000 cattle breeders from Gujarat and Rajasthan in a lurch. Teh livestock is exported mainly to Gulf countries. Also, with the decision coming during the of Ramadan month, which is the peak season for export, cattle breeders are fearing heavy losses and future loss of business from west Asian countries. Secretary of Livestock Exporters’ Association Adil Noor said, “The DPT withdrew the export permission without any valid reason. With frequent changes in export permissions, the credibility of Indian cattle exporters has been dented.” “We used to export 6-7 lakh cattle every year, but the orders have now halved because of uncertainty over fulfilment of the orders. When all other exports are permitted, they why ban only livestock export citing coronavirus pandemic?” questioned Noor. Cattle breeders alleged that DPT’s decision to ban export of cattle came under pressure from animal rights activists who have been demanding ban since 2018. This is not the first time that the export of livestock from Tuna port has been suspended. It has happened over a half a dozen time over the period of last one and half years. The Gujarat high court had in April last year set aside order of the state government banning export of livestock from Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dpt-fears-livestock-could-spread-covid-halts-export/articleshow/75478804.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Death registrations dip, JMC appoints ‘informers’||JAIPUR: Sudden decline in the number of death registrations in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has prompted the civic body to issue a notification to the zonal offices to appoint an informer in each crematorium and graveyard in the city. The job of the informer is to send information about the number of cremations or burials occurring every day. There are more than 150 crematoriums and graveyards here out of which only 30 have informers in place. When a burial or cremation occurs, the informer gets a form filled by the family members where details of the deceased, family members, cause of death, time of death and other such information is mentioned. It is the job of the informer to send the form back to JMC and give a copy to the family. According to JMC officials, they are not getting enough number of registrations for death ever since the lockdown began. A senior JMC official said, “Since the lockdown, accident cases and sudden deaths have gone down but there is a sharp decline in the number of registrations. It is not possible to have such a sudden decline. At least emergency cases or people with serious health problems may be dying. So, to keep a check on the activities inside the crematoriums and graveyards, we are appointing our representative.” The benefit of the registration from cremation ground is the proof of death. If a person dies at home, as per rules it should be registered within 21 days at JMC. The registration form which the family receives from the crematorium will act as a proof of death, making it easier for them to get the certificate. JMC has notified the zonal commissioners to appoint a person from the neighbourhood where the crematorium is located, so that he/she will be easily available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/death-registrations-dip-jmc-appoints-informers/articleshow/75480935.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Fighting for own survival while also serving the elderly||I own a stall of non-vegetarian starters and biryani near Yeshwant Stadium. Four members of my elder brother’s family, five of mine and families of my employees are dependent on the income generated by the stall. We used to earn Rs40,000 a month after paying salaries and other expenses. I haven’t earned a penny in last six weeks to feed them. I have a BPL card and my family is surviving on subsidized ration we get. I still have to buy cooking oil and vegetables at market rates. I also have a loan of Rs1.6 lakh, half of which is paid back. With no other source of income, I have informed bank people about my condition and they agreed to give relaxation, which is a relief. Paying school fees is also a worry. My daughter’s monthly fee is Rs1,100. As of now, the school has not demanded money but I don’t know how I will pay when the school reopens. We have a group of friends who are involved in social work in our area. Now feeding elderly and needy people is our prime task. Since I am involved in these social activities, I had to shell out some money from my savings. Now everything is exhausted. We are surviving on the food provided by members of a gurdwara in morning and by Sandip Joshi (mayor) in the evening. Things will get tough after May 3 as I was told that food will not be provided after that date due to more restrictions. I am not paying anything to my stall workers but ensured that they get food daily. I just hope things get to normal and we can start earning or else soon my own fight for survival will begin. (As told to Amit Sampat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fighting-for-own-survival-while-also-serving-the-elderly/articleshow/75480916.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Rising number of cops testing Covid positive in Malegaon sparks concern||Nashik: The high percentage of police personnel testing positive for Covid-19 in the densely-populated town of Malegaon has raised questions about the safety of the men in khaki who are on the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. As many as 19 cops tested positive for Covid-19 in the powerloom town — a hotbed of the virus — on Wednesday night, taking the total count to 37 so far. Of these, 23 jawans are from the SRPF, 13 from Nashik rural police and one from Jalgaon. Pankaj Ashiya, the special monitoring officer and in-charge of Malegaon emergency operations, said police personnel run the risk of getting infected due to various reasons. “The police jawans are engaged in dealing with the locals to enforce lockdown in Malegaon. And since they move in groups, if one of the jawans gets infected, the others too run the risk of getting infected,” he said. The officer added that apart from police personnel, two government health workers in Malegaon have been infected with coronavirus so far. The Nashik District Disaster Management Authority had appointed Ashiya, a young IAS officer, to deal with the rising number of Covid 19 cases in Malegaon. Superintendent of police Arti Singh ((Nashik rural) told TOI, “They were asymptomatic but their throat swab tested positive. All of them are undergoing treatment at the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s Zakir Hussain Hospital in the city. Their condition is said to be stable.” State home minister Anil Deshmukh, during a review meeting on Wednesday, lauded the efforts of the Nashik rural police in ensuring lockdown in Malegaon. Police officers said that the task of keeping residents indoors is a big challenge, given the demography of Malegaon. “While the state’s population density is about 465 per square km, in Malegaon, it is about 19,000 per square km. With such dense population and large families staying in small dwellings, it becomes difficult to manage crowd. But, we have done it successfully so far. There has been no major untoward incident in Malegaon,” said police officers. Arti Singh herself has been camping in Malegaon ever since the lockdown was imposed. She has been overseeing and monitoring the deployment of over 1,700 police personnel across the town on a daily basis. “We have lodged cases against 1,000 people so far for violation of the lockdown rules and have seized 179 two-wheelers. We cannot afford to lower our guards in enforcing lockdown in Malegaon,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rising-number-of-cops-testing-covid-positive-in-malegaon-sparks-concern/articleshow/75479945.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven farm greens centres to be opened in a week||Thiruvananthapuram: As the pandemic has affected transportation, the state is gearing up to be self-sufficient, at least in vegetable cultivation. As part of such efforts, the city corporation is launching farm greens centres to sell locally-produced vegetables in the city. Mayor K Sreekumar will inaugurate the first farm greens centre at Kaithamukku at 9am on Friday. The project is launched by city corporation with the support of Swasti foundation, chamber of commerce and industries, IMA, the association of agriculture officers’ Kerala, Narmada shopping complex, police officers’ association, agricultural technical staff association, Bhub and United Shito-ryu Karate association. Farm greens will function from 9am to noon. Mayor said vegetables and fruits produced by farmers in the state will be sold through the farm green shop. The next farm greens shops will be started at Narmada shopping complex on Saturday and SMRV school, Karamana, on Sunday. Mayor said seven farm green shops will be started in a week. “Now farmers are finding it difficult to sell their hard-earned products. Through farm green shops they will get value for their efforts and consumers too can buy fresh and locally-produced vegetables,” he said. On May 6, agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and mayor Sreekumar will launch fallow land cultivation on a one acre land at Kuravankonam. “We have got one acre land in the heart of the city for cultivation. This is one step towards making city self-sufficient in vegetable cultivation. Such initiatives are aimed at bringing a cultural change to the city,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-farm-greens-centres-to-be-opened-in-a-week/articleshow/75478871.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||ZP teacher prepares online results for Std I to IX||Pune: A Zilla Parishad school teacher has taken a novel initiative to provide online report cards to schoolchildren. Just like in case of board results, which are announced online, students of standard I to VIII can check their results by downloading a link, said teacher Balaji Jadhav. Results are announced on May 1 for state government schools every year. Jadhav has designed report cards with the names of school, student and other such details. Since the state government has adopted continuous and comprehensive evaluation, students are graded based on their performances and no marks are given. Jadhav said, "Since schools are closed and students cannot come to school to collect their results, it was necessary to declare results online. Now, our children have also learnt to use the internet and many have access to it." Jadhav teaches at a ZP school in Maan taluka of Satara and has successfuly prepared online report cards of 70 children. He said schools in other talukas are also considering taking a leaf out of his initiative. ZP students can check their results on Jadhav’s educational portal www.shikshanbhakti.in. The results have been made available for both semesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-teacher-prepares-online-results-for-std-i-to-ix/articleshow/75481643.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Meetings to enhance online teaching held||Nashik: The education department of the Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) conducted meetings at block levels to find out the effectiveness of online teaching for the students. The block wise meetings were conducted through video conferencing from April 23 to April 30. They were attended by block education officers, cluster heads and extension officers of 15 talukas. Chief executive officer (CEO) Leena Bansod attended the meetings and looked into the matter herself as thousands of students are taking benefit of online teaching. According to ZP education authorities, the CEO was concerned about parents who cannot afford a smart phone. “Some parents in rural areas cannot afford smart phones for their wards. And, if they have it, they are unable to recharge it. They weigh their options whether to buy groceries and other essentials for feeding their family or recharge the data for their children’s education,” said authorities. The meeting attendees put forth several options to ensure that every student gets the required education. These options will be reviewed in due course of time. “The ZP schools will observe summer vacations from May 7 to June 15. We want to keep some contingency plans ready for the time when we reopen. We will follow the state government’s instructions about reopening of schools and plan the academic year accordingly,” said authorities. The teachers of ZP schools had started online classes as soon as the lockdown was enforced. They have an outreach to thousands of students in the developed areas in 15 talukas. But, in the interiors of rural areas, about 60% students are still not able to benefit from online classes. “Our biggest concern is reaching all students of our schools. Our teachers have prepared groups of all the parents and they are in constant touch with them. They have uploaded their notes on the government’s Diksha application which are accessible by any student,” they said. To keep the students engrossed in learning, teachers are also organising online tests and fun activities for students of Class I to Class XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/meetings-to-enhance-online-teaching-held/articleshow/75479959.cms||pragya jain
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Mah Day event only at collector office||Nagpur: Just like festivals in the last 41 days, there will be no celebrations of 60th Maharashtra Day in the city on May 1. Only a flag hoisting programme will be organized in the premises of Collector office. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain in a circular said, “There will be no programmes to celebrate the state’s foundation day at the head office or ten zone offices or other departments. Mayor used to hoist flag every year to mark Maharashtra Day at head office and zonal chairpersons at ten zones. The state government on April 22 had issued a notification giving directives to celebrate the occasion in a simple manner considering Covid-19 epidemic and its threat. Therefore, there will be no programmes at the NMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mah-day-event-only-at-collector-office/articleshow/75480938.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||14 including 11 of family test +ve in Belagavi||Belagavi: A total of 14 people, including 11 from a family, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Thursday, taking the tally in Belagavi district to 69. The fresh cases, including eight women and six men, were reported from Hirebagewadi and Sankeshwar clusters. The 11 people from the same family who tested positive are from Hirebagewadi. All the 14 patients are secondary contacts. As many as 10 people have recovered here. On Thursday, many shops here remained closed throughout the day. It is likely to continue even on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/14-including-11-of-family-test-ve-in-belagavi/articleshow/75478822.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Unseasonal rains batter mangoes, pour misery||RAJKOT: Ripe kesar mangoes waiting to be harvested in Amreli district took a huge beating when unseasonal rains and storm ravaged the standing crop. Huge quantities of mangoes fell down in the rain on Thursday and farmers estimate around 15 to 20 percent loss of ready-to-harvest crops because of the unseasonal rain. Kesar mango has been cultivated in total 48,000 hectare area of Saurashtra and Kutch this year, of which Amreli has around 5,000 hectare area. Director of Horticulture department, P M Vaghasia said, “We are surveying the damage. According to a primary estimate, standing mango crop in around 150 to 200 ha area in Amreli district has been damaged due to the rains.” “We are ruined!,” Ukkabhai Bhatti a farmer of Dhari taluka said, adding that the lockdown has only worsened their fate. “We are not able to sale it in the market, and traders pay us less saying that they are facing difficulty in transportation. Out and out, it’s a huge loss for us,” he added. Mango farming is done mostly in three districts of Saurasthra, including Gir Somnath, Junagadh and Amreli. According to farmers, the unseasonal rains ravaged Dhari, Khambha and Savarkundla taluka of Amreli district. Rahim Laliya of Jar village in Dhari taluka cultivates Kesar mangoes in 54 bigha farmland. “I was expecting an yield of Rs 35 to 40 lakh this year. However, the rains incurred me a loss of around Rs 10 lakh,” he rued. According to farmers, the mangoes that have fallen off the trees due to the rains are half ripe and therefore, not of any use. Such mangoes cannot be used for pickling purposes either, they lamented, adding that these fallen fruits will now be bought by restaurants at Rs 5 per kilo to be used in salads only. While, the mango production was already delayed by 20 days this year because of the prolonged winter last year, now farmers are also worried looking at the quality of the fruit this year. The head of horticulture department of Junagadh Agriculture University, D K Varu said, “Fluctuation in the temperature between day and night of more then 10-12 degrees affect the size of fruit.” However, there has been no damage to the mango crop in Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts — hub of Gujarat’s Kesar mango production, said farmers and agriculture experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unseasonal-rains-batter-mangoes-pour-misery/articleshow/75478853.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 1, 2020||Pune||Light rain & thunderstorm give some relief from heat||Pune: Residents on Thursday hailed the welcome summer showers and the consequent drop in temperature as very light rain, thunder and gusty winds were witnessed in some pockets of the city in the evening.Shivajinagar received 1mm rainfall till 5.30pm, while Lohegaon did not record any showers. The wind speed during the thunderstorm was 30-40km per hour.There are chances of light to very light rain in isolated places in Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra, including Pune, on Friday as well with isolated hail in these regions. The rainfall activity was likely to reduce from Saturday, said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune.Kashyapi said the constant rise in the day temperature as well as a trough line passing through Madhya Maharashtra triggered convective activity in parts of the state. “The rain remained very light to light and was associated with gusty winds and thundery activity. The thundery activity, in fact, was significant on Thursday because of the development of cumulonimbus clouds, which are thunderclouds.”He said, “The day temperature is nearing 39-40°C and there has been significant moisture incursion into parts of the state, resulting in very light to light rain and thunder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/light-rain-thunderstorm-give-some-relief-from-heat/articleshow/75481659.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor bats for technology to improve higher education||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Thursday said the need of the hour was to use innovative technology to achieve the best in the field of higher education. He said in order to deal with the impact of higher education in this period, universities will have to make proper use of available resources in solidarity. Mishra said a new strategy would have to be chalked out to re-create a cultural environment in the state. He was discussing higher education with the vice chancellors of universities of the state through video conferencing from Raj Bhavan. The Governor discussed the recommendations of the task force set up by him along with the vice chancellors. The vice chancellors said these recommendations would be discussed in the respective committees so that students can be saved from harm. The key recommendations given by the task force were teaching modules and teaching videos transmitting e-content and video lectures to students through WhatsApp and other available tools. In the next session regarding academic calendar and elections, the governor suggested that students’ union elections should not be held in the university and their associate colleges. Moreover, every university should obtain its approval from the secretariat for not proposing any holiday in its academic calendar after the period of lockdown is over to save time for completing the course. Focusing on the budget, the governor suggested that all universities should call the meeting of the finance committee in the first week of May and try to get permission from the state finance department, UGC, ICAR and DST to spend the remaining provisions of the last financial year till September 2020. The present university portal-website should have Hindi text so that Hindi-speaking students do not face difficulties. On screen evaluation system, the process of checking copies digitally can be adopted for the next session examinations. Initially, it should be adopted by PG universities for PG classes, while it is proposed to be adopted by technical universities for all classes. It was suggested by the task force that the vice chancellors should adopt UGC course uniformly from the next semester so that students do not face difficulty even if they change universities. By doing this, the choice-based credit system will also be easily implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-bats-for-technology-to-improve-higher-education/articleshow/75480956.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Student organisation helps fire victims maintain hygiene||Nashik: After a fire broke out in the Ganjamal area of the city on April 25, as many as 400 people from the slums were rehabilitated to a nearby school. However, having lost almost everything in the incident, people here are finding it difficult to maintain personal hygiene. At a time when personal hygiene is of utmost importance to keep Covid-19 at a bay, student organisation Samyak Vidyarthi Andolan has come forward in helping those in distress. Komal Pagare, a member of the organisation, said, “There is only one wash room in the school. There is no place for women to take a bath. The women went back to their neighbours in the slum yesterday (Wednesday) to have a bath after four days.” “We gave them soaps to clean themselves and their clothes. We have also given them small bottles of coconut oil. These are basic necessities for everyone,” said Pagare. The student organisation has also distributed packets of sanitary napkins among 160 of the 200 women inmates. Apart from this, another NGO also donated clothes as most of them did not have a change of inner-wear. “We gave a packet of sanitary napkins to the women as they could not afford to buy these for themselves. We have also given them inner-wear so that they can maintain proper hygiene,” said Pagare. She added that there were many people who did not have anything else other than the clothes they were wearing. They have lost everything in the fire accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/student-organisation-helps-fire-victims-maintain-hygiene/articleshow/75479991.cms||pragya jain
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||Community market opened at Laxmi Nagar ground||Nagpur: City’s first community market, the brainchild of mayor Sandip Joshi, was started at Laxmi Nagar ground near Aath Rasta Square on Thursday. With a view to ensure no chaos, only six retailers were allowed to set up shops at the ground, the mayor told TOI. In order to observe social distancing, the civic administration marked squares on the ground. Chairs were also made available for senior citizens who had to wait for their turns. “We have also deployed social workers and vigil residents to ensure people stand inside the marks in a queue,” Joshi said. The civic administration had also launched temporary markets on open spaces across the city. These markets failed to ensure social distancing among other rules laid down to prevent the transmission of the novel coronavirus. Temporary market at Reshimbagh ground had to be shut due to this. Now, residents of Narendra Nagar and Dhantoli are demanding closing down of temporary markets in their areas. Joshi said that if the response from citizens is satisfactory, similar community markets will be opened in 25 other places across the city. Meanwhile, senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari demanded action against fruit vendors doing business in Bajeria. “With the fruit market in Kalamna Agriculture Produce Market Committee prohibited, most wholesale fruit vendors have shifted their shops on roads of Bajeria,” he said. Defying lockdown, over 2,500 people are visiting the market, stated Tiwari in a letter sent to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. “Despite informing the NMC, nothing has been done to stop the market,” he said. Before shifting to Kalamna’s APMC market in 1990, the wholesale fruit market used to be operated from Bajeria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/community-market-opened-at-laxmi-nagar-ground/articleshow/75480985.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata, suburbs add 66 containment zones||KOLKATA: The city now has 264 containment zones, which is 59.4% of the total containment zones in the state. The government on Thursday increased the number of containment zones in Kolkata by 37 — from 227 to 264. While 13 more were added in North 24 Parganas, including Salt Lake and New Town, 16 more were included in Howrah. Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah now have 91.4% of the total 444 containment zones in Bengal. Central Kolkata and pockets of south-east Kolkata emerged as the new spots of bother for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police. Cops said pockets in Elliot Road off Taltala, Tangra, Shyampukur and Posta are being barricaded. Reports of new cases have also come from north Kolkata bylanes. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Thursday inspected containment zones in Rajabazar-Narkeldanga, Belgachhia, Cossipore and Posta. Talking to TOI, Sharma said that he was satisfied with the arrangements. He said that he had asked his men to introduce stricter checking at night. A spurt in Covid-positive cases in Salt Lake and New Town in the last three days resulted in the increase of containment zones in North 24 Parganas to 70. A part of DB block, located beside City Centre I in Salt Lake, and another locality in Duttabad near Subhas Palli ground were barricaded by the police. According to Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation sources, an elderly person, who lives in Lake Town, had come to his daughter’s house at DB Block a few weeks ago. He has been hospitalised with Covid-19 symptoms and four of his family members, who live at the DB Block house, were sent to quarantine. They were shifted to a hospital on April 28 after they developed Covid-19 symptoms. The domestic help, a Duttabad resident, who used to work at the DB Block house, has also been sent to quarantine along with seven of her family members. With this fresh containment zone in DB Block, the number of containment zones in Salt Lake that have been barricaded are now three. The other two sealed-off stretches are from GD Island to FC Block and a lane inside HA Block. Parts of New Town AL Block, the lane beside Balaka Abasan, Beraberi, a lane beside Atharatala and Hatiara had been cordoned off by cops. In Kolkata, police intensified their containment strategy in Posta and Burrabazar on Thursday with cases still being reported every second or third day. Police removed vegetable vendors after morning hours, suspended distribution of food by NGOs and aggressively patrolled the neighbourhoods. The cops also prosecuted several people throughout the day for violating lockdown and impounded vehicles. Several new rules were introduced in the two wholesale markets of Posta and Mechhua to regulate the entry of lorries, implement social-distancing norms among shop owners and workers and prevent buyers from crowding the shops. Shahid Ahmed Khan, general secretary of the merchants’ association, said the traders will extend all co-operation to the administration. Chandan Chakraborti, president of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association, said: “All of us are wearing gloves and masks all the time while in our shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-has-264-high-risk-spots-new-pockets-in-central-south-east-localities-worry-cops/articleshow/75479992.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 1, 2020||Pune||British-era law invoked for hate message||Pune: The Lonavla (rural) police, in a rare instance, have invoked provisions of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922 — a British era law — against a man for posting misleading and fake messages on a WhatsApp group against the police. Constable Jayraj Patankar lodged a complaint stating that the man, a resident of Bhangarwadi village, posted a long message in Marathi, claiming that police were using force to ensure villagers do not venture out of their homes during the lockdown and restraining them from conducting necessary business. The complaint stated that the villager further wrote, “There was no coronavirus patient in the village, but the police allowed the movement of a few people to Lonavla from Mumbai, which brought the virus to the village. Some villagers have been admitted to the hospital.” The villager further claimed, “Police are acting differently. Action must be taken against the police.” Police said the villager used abusive language against police personnel in the message and defamed them, and invoked the special law. Inspector Manoj Yadav of Lonavla rural police is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/british-era-law-invoked-for-hate-message/articleshow/75481651.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Mapusa’s DMC students respond to social need, stitch and distribute 900 face masks||PANAJI: Reading stories about the shortage of protective face masks for first responders during the Covid-19 pandemic gave some students in Goa the idea of utilising their free time during the lockdown to make face masks. That is how the students and faculty of Dnyanprassarak Mandal’s College and Research Centre, Assagao, got together to stitch and distribute the gear. They have handed out around 900 masks among shopkeepers, migrants and essential service workers in their villages in Pernem and Bardez talukas so far. “The volunteers are home during the lockdown and it only makes sense to engage in the task of preparing the masks. In addition to this, they are also carrying out awareness on the importance of wearing masks through social media, especially since there is a penalty on non-wearing of this gear while going out. We will also be supplying the masks to bus conductors and drivers who are ferrying commuters during the pandemic,” principal D B Arolkar said. After the college closed its gates following the pandemic-related curfew, the institute’s NSS unit convenor and programme officers informed 560 students to contribute towards the noble cause of making and giving away masks. Around 200 students, who have stitching facility, commenced work. “The unit instructed the 200 students in the first week of April to make at least ten masks each for giving to the locals as part of social responsibility in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Majority of girl students took up the cause,” one college faculty said. Alorna-based Disha Gawas, a student at the college, went a step further to make 20 more masks and distributed these in her neighbourhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusas-dmc-students-respond-to-social-need-stitch-distribute-900-face-masks/articleshow/75480981.cms||Nida Sayed
May 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guest workers from Chhattisgarh pool Rs 52k for CMDRF||Thiruvananthapuram: For 43 guest workers from Chhattisgarh who work in the capital, the state has helped them earn enough to considerably improve the financial position of their families. So, when they came to know about the drive of the state government to collect funds to help people who are struggling because of the Covid-19 crisis, they decided to do their bit. These guest labourers work as coconut pluckers at the firm CompuTech near Ayiroorpara. They contributed an amount of Rs 52,000 from their savings to CMDRF. The cheque was handed over to minister for cooperation Kadakampally Surendran recently. “My friends have been working here long before I joined them. I never felt alienated in this place. I received training in climbing coconut trees. We all earn a steady income and can send savings to our families in Chhattisgarh. When the owner of the firm informed us that people here are contributing to CMDRF, we decided to do our bit,” said Chandrapal Singh, one among the 43-member team. “Lockdown affected our earnings for 10 to 15 days. My ticket reservation got cancelled due to lockdown and I was not able to go home. But by mid-April, we all were back to work and we saved an amount from the earnings for CMDRF. We contributed around Rs 1,000 each for the fund,” added Chandrapal. He came to Thiruvananthapuram in September 2019 and received training in coconut tree climbing. Mohandas P, owner of CompuTech, said that it was during the weekly meeting that he informed the guest workers about the ongoing collection drive for CMDRF and they all readily agreed to contribute an amount. “I am an ex-serviceman and I gave my one-month pension to CMDRF. The lockdown affected our work for 10 to 15 days. Later, when the rules were relaxed for agriculture activities people started calling us for work. The guest workers saved the amount from their wages for the distress relief fund,” said Mohandas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guest-workers-from-chhattisgarh-pool-rs-52k-for-cmdrf/articleshow/75478920.cms||Anasooya.S
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 11 held for playing night cricket in Covid-19 hotspot||RAJKOT: A group of 11 youngsters was arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly playing a night cricket match in Jangleshwer locality of Rajkot and uploading the video on social media and WhatsApp. The accused were booked for the alleged violation of the lockdown notification. “Jangleshwer is a corona hotspot with more than 40 Covid-19 positive cases being reported from this area alone. The entire area of three km radius landlocked between Aji River and Kotharia Road is under the lockdown. The arrested youths blatantly breached the lockdown order,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Those arrested were identified as Shoyeb Sora (20), Faizan Bhala (19), Akram Sheikh (20), Nawaz Meer (19), Shahrukh Baloch (27), Kashsyap Chawda (19), Aftab Theba (19), Azeem Piludia (24), Alfisan Khokhar (19), Mohemmed Saiyed (19) and Moin Pinjara (19).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-held-for-playing-night-cricket-in-jangleshwer/articleshow/75478901.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Healthcare workers, cops on edge seek assistance||Pune: A staff nurse posted at an isolation ward in a city-based hospital made a desperate call to the Sassoon mental health helpline for Covid-19 in an attempt to know if she had contracted the virus. A police constable in quarantine for 14 days called the helpline thinking that he had contracted the virus even though the test results had been negative. Increasingly, the helpline has been getting calls from medical practitioners, health care workers and police officers exhibiting a nagging fear of contracting the virus. Of the 15-20 calls the helpline receives daily, at least 2-3 calls are from medical practitioners directly associated with treating Covid-19 patients. Every day, there is at least one call from a cop, sources from the helpline told TOI. The helpline — run by the BJ Medical College (BJMC), Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) and Maharashtra Institute of Mental Health — was started on March 31 to cater to the psycho-social issues faced by people in the aftermath of Covid-19. There has been a gradual rise in the number of calls that pertain to paranoia, anxiety and insomnia due to the fear of the virus. Krishna Kadam, coordinator for the helpline, said, “We received an anxious call from a staff nurse working in an isolation ward. She feared contracting the virus and passing it on to her family. Despite testing negative for the virus, being from the medical background and thus knowing the nitty-gritty of transmission and symptoms, she exhibited intense fear.” Kadam said that another medical practitioner spoke of constant fights and friction with her husband as he would not allow her to go to work for fear that she would be exposed to the virus and infect the entire family. The senior psychiatrist added, “A police constable was on duty in the city and was later quarantined for 14 days. While in quarantine, he called us worried because he was under the misconception that he had contracted the virus though his test results were negative. He thought that because he had been working on field, he had certainly contracted the virus. The negative test report did not do much to allay his fears.” As per a rough break up of data provided by the helpline, around 5-6 calls per day are related to seeking general information about the virus, services on testing and admission. A similar number of calls revolve around feeling anxious due to Covid-19, while 2-3 callers talk about feeling sad, depressed and even bored due to the current situation. Sandip Sisode, president of State Psychologists Association, said, “These helplines get over 500 calls per day, and at least 15% to 20% callers are medical practitioners, municipal staff and police officers. I received a call from a police officer in Aurangabad, who thought that he was having issues like cough and throat irritation. He had thought that he had contracted the virus because of the symptoms that were manifesting. It turned out that he was thinking about these things so obsessively that he began to ‘feel’ like he had those symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/healthcare-workers-cops-on-edge-seek-assistance/articleshow/75481667.cms||Neha Madaan
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Pilgrims back after quarantine in Raj||Hyderabad: After spending more than 40 days of isolation in a quarantine facility in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer, a group of 11 pilgrims from Old City’s Darulshifa are back in Hyderabad. They were brought back to Darulshifa on April 28. A relative of the family, Syed Mujtaba Hussain told TOI that the 11 members, who had gone to Iran and Iraq on a pilgrimage in March, were quarantined at Jaisalmer after their arrival in Delhi on March 18. “They were brought to Hyderabad two days ago,” he said. On March 7, the pilgrims were supposed to have taken a flight from Mashhad in Iran, travel to Sharjah and from there, arrive in Hyderabad on March 8. However, with no flights operating from Mashhad due to coronavirus pandemic, they were stranded. TOI carried a report on their plight. Juveria Fatima, one of the pilgrims, had put out a video appealing for help. The Indian embassy in Iran responded to their pleas. After testing negative for Covid-19, they returned in special flights arranged by the Indian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pilgrims-back-after-quarantine-in-raj/articleshow/75481079.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Drastic drop in property tax collection in April||Nashik: The property tax collection saw a sharp fall in the first month of the new financial year, despite 5% discount for citizens who pay annual the amount in the first quarter of the financial year. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) collected only Rs 2.35 crore in April as against Rs 9 crore during the corresponding month last year. Civic officials said the main reason for poor collection of property tax is the current lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. “People’s incomes have been affected due to closure of businesses and some sectors announcing salary cuts. This has overall led to a drop in property tax collection,” said a civic official. “Usually, we conduct a drive against property tax defaulters in March, but could not do it this time because of the outbreak of coronavirus,” said the official. The NMC usually collects around Rs 15-20 crore in the month of April, but it was less last year because of the Lok Sabha elections as most of the staff of property tax department had been engaged in election duties. The civic body had collected property tax of Rs 15 crore during the month of April in 2018. The NMC has introduced incentives for property tax payers from the current financial year. Accordingly, citizens who pay the property tax in April and May will get up to 5% rebate in the tax, while those who pay in June and July will get rebate of 3% and 2% respectively, said NMC officials. In 2019-20, the property tax collection was Rs 144 crore, which was the highest ever figure in the history of the municipal corporation. The civic body’s property tax collection in the previous financial year of 2018-19 was Rs 114 crore. It had for the first time crossed the Rs 100-crore mark in property tax collection this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drastic-drop-in-property-tax-collection-in-april/articleshow/75480003.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rishi Kapoor had a short stint at Ajmer’s Mayo College||EDITED: (315 words) Ajmer: Veteran actor Rishi Kapoor had an Ajmer connection. His short stint as a student at Mayo College was remembered fondly by the actor. Kapoor joined Mayo College in Class IV in the autumn of 1962. He would often enact scenes from his father’s films and would even get punished for it. However, his time at Mayo was short and he left the school at the end of the session, merely after six months, because his mother was apparently concerned about his health. Ramesh Shah (86), the then teacher at the school who retired as vice-principal of the institute and currently resides in Ahmedabad, still remembers Kapoor as a charming, chubby, respectful and pleasant boy. Shah said Kapoor even came to meet him later at the school and visited his dormitory in 1976-77 with his friends when he had come to Jaipur. He was fond of the school and was very respectful to all the teachers, said Shah. Later, when Shah became the vice-principal, Kapoor dropped in again in 1989 when he had come to offer prayers at the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishty. Shah recalls how Kapoor would often enact scenes from his father Raj Kapoor’s films and would even get punished for it. Shah, offering his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family, said the reason of his leaving from Mayo College was not clear. His mother would often come to visit him and was apparently worried about his health and perhaps which is why she took him back to Mumbai. Rishi Kapoor visited Ajmer in 2006 for the shoot of his film ‘Namaste London’. Khadim Syed Qutubuddin Sakhi said that he was a jovial person and also had faith in Sufism. He recalled how Kapoor told him that he had an old connection with the city due to studying here briefly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rishi-kapoor-had-a-short-stint-at-ajmers-mayo-college/articleshow/75480976.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||NFAI recalls tryst with Rishi Kapoor, his preserved reels||PUNE: As the country woke up to the news of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor breathing his last in Mumbai after a battle with cancer, his fans flooded social media with clips of some of his most iconic performances. Among the clips were scenes from his first leading role in the highest-grossing film of 1973 Bobby, which was directed by his father Raj Kapoor. Pune will be the custodian of the iconic film, in more ways than one, including its original negatives, now stored at the National Film Archive of India (NFAI), along with other films produced by the RK Studio. The transfer of the negatives became official in early-2018, after Rishi, along with his brothers Randhir and Rajiv, were guests at the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), with NFAI being an official partner of the festival. All told, a total of 23 films are part of the preserved reels, including Bobby and Mera Naam Joker, in which Rishi made his on-screen debut in a minor role. “We had been speaking to the Kapoor family, including Rishiji and Randhirji, about the negatives of the films since 2017. Then the fire incident happened at RK Studio in Chembur in September that year, which destroyed most of the property, but the negatives were fine, as they were housed in a separate building. Talks accelerated after that, including through PIFF and festival director Jabbar Patel. Finally, the Kapoor family gave us the negatives in January 2018,” said Prakash Magdum, director of NFAI. Rishi attended most of the festival and was later part of an interaction with Patel, speaking about a retrospective of Raj Kapoor films. Beyond the original film negatives, even a part of the shoot for Bobby took place on the outskirts of the city at Rajbaug in Loni Kalbhor, a property previously owned by Raj Kapoor. It is now part of the campus of a film and television institute run by the MIT group of institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-recalls-tryst-with-rishi-his-preserved-reels/articleshow/75481696.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
May 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘Swasthya Doot’, a robot developed to help doctors||Wardha: Aparnesh Shukla, son of vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University (MGIHU) Rajnish kumar Shukla, has developed an automatic device to help nurses at hospital. ‘Swasthya Doot’ a kind of robot made out of scrap material at home during lockdown. This automated nursing robot can deliver almost all the material needed to patients while maintaining social and physical distance. Aparnesh, who is engineering graduate said, “It was very difficult to develop such device during lockdown as I faced problems to get things I needed to make it more efficient. I made it from whatever I had.” He further said, “When I was watching news that how doctors are facing problems, I realised that we have not such medical automated equipments so that we can minimise the social contact and protect doctors.” “China used such robot while treating Covid-19 patient, I saw that news too, then I decided to make such an automated robot which would be useful and protect our doctors’, said Aparnesh, “I have also decided to make my career in medical automation because I feel that we are far away from automation in medical area” said Aparnesh. This nursing robot is made available free of cost to facilitate the treatment of patients in the district general hospital. This device weighing about 13 kg can carry 25 kg of material to the patient. Aparnesh Shukla made it during the lockdown using scrap material available within the university. “This device with very low production cost will prove to be a big and important relief in the crisis of corona pandemic” said, residential district collector Sunil Korde. Further he said, this is major achievement, our hospital have such a dynamic device during such critical time. “Without human touch this Swasthya Doot will provide food and medicine to the patient, and enable doctors and nurses to interact with patient remotely, this device will definitely prove very much useful while treating coronavirus patient,” said civil surgeon P Madavi. Aparnesh is pursuing MBA in Gwalior and came to celebrate the festival among his family during the holiday of Holi. Meanwhile, due to lockdown he stranded here. To develop this device he also received the cooperation of other members of the University in this work. Due to lockdown he could not get the material he needed to make more efficient. Aparnesh, said, in future it will be made more sophisticated using 360 degree cameras, sensors and other electronic items. Further Aparnesh, said, this robot have limitations because it is being operated on RF control, it has limited range but in future we will make it on Internet of Things (IoT). Then it will not have any range limitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/swasthya-doot-a-robot-developed-to-help-doctors/articleshow/75482105.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Sivaganga dist admin helps 12 MP tourists return home||Madurai: Sivaganga district administration has made arrangements for the return of 12 tourists from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, who had been stranded in Manamadurai for the past 35 days.The Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanthan had contacted the Jabalpur district administration officials and made arrangements for their travel. Collector Jayakanthan sent them off at Sivaganga collectorate on Wednesday evening. Speaking to TOI, Manamadurai tahsildar T Panchapakesan said that 12 people who came for a tour of South India reached Manamadurai on March 22 but were stranded due to the lockdown.“We made arrangements for them to stay in a lodge at Manamadurai and food was provided to them. Since, they did not like our menu, we provided them wheat flour and vegetables with which they made chapattis and sabji,” explained Panchapakesan.He said that since all of them were healthy after performing periodical thermal scanning. Collector Jayakanthan, who had contacted the officials at Jabalpur, made arrangements for their travel by obtaining e-passes. The collector gave them Rs 10,000 as his contribution and the members of the Manamadurai Lions Club also gave them Rs 10,000. The tourists were sent in a van with two drivers, K Vigneshwaran and M Sonaithevan, and we are monitoring their journey to Jabalpur, he added.One of the tourists, Ganesh Prasad Mera, told TOI that they had come for a tour of Rameswaram in March. He said that when we planned to leave for Jabalpur, lockdown was announced due to which they were stranded in Manamadurai. “While we were panicing, the officials made arrangements for food and accommodation at Manamadurai. We are very thankful to the collector and tahsildar who took good care of us ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-dist-admin-helps-12-mp-tourists-return-home/articleshow/75480978.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Couple caught with heroin worth Rs 3.3 lakh in Rajkot||Rajkot: A couple was arrested with 33 gram of heroin worth Rs 3.30 lakh near Master Society on Kotharia Road in Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Imran Pathan and his wife Fatma Pathan, both aged 35, had brought the contraband from Jangleshwer locality. The accused told the cops that they had procured the drugs from a drug dealer identified as Salma Sandhi. Sandhi had asked a drug trafficker identified as Bhuro to get her heroin. “In order to hide contraband from police, the accused had kept packets of snacks and milk in the boot of their two-wheeler, so that they could claim that they had gone out to buy essential items when caught. However, we had a prior tip-off about the couple carrying the contraband. Upon frisking them, we found the drugs from Fatma’s purse,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Apart from the drugs, the police seized the two-wheeler driven by the accused, Rs 4,890 cash and two cellphones. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Sandhi and Bhuro. The police said Sandhi was arrested twice in the past for obstructing cops on duty and carrying liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-caught-with-heroin-worth-rs-3-3-lakh-in-rajkot/articleshow/75478942.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hubballi||Following their return, migrant labourers are home-quarantined||Hubballi/Bagalkot: As many as 517 labourers, who had migrated to different parts of the state, returned to Gadag district on Thursday. About 447 of them returned from Dakshina Kannada, 21 from Hassan, 20 from Dharwad, 16 from Uttara Kannada, 10 from Ballari and three from Shivamogga district. “They were screened for Covid-19 as soon as they entered the district and asked to remain under home quarantine for 14 days,” said DC MG Hiremath. Hiremath added that about 60 workers from other parts of the state who were stuck in the district due to the lockdown returned to their native places in a bus arranged by the Gadag administration. As many as 438 labourers, who arrived in Bagalkot from Mangaluru and Udupi on 13 special buses on Thursday, underwent thermal screening test. Covid-19 special additional deputy commissioner Basavaraj Somannavar said they will be home-quarantined for 14 days during which their health will be monitored. These labourers are from Bagalkot, Badami, Ilkal, Hunagund and other taluks. Sommannavar said they will be shifted to their native places after collection of their details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/following-their-return-migrant-labourers-are-home-quarantined/articleshow/75478912.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Nashik||Unseasonal rain, hail cool down Nashik city||Nashik: Unseasonal rain, with hail, lashed most areas of the Nashik city on Thursday. The showers began around 2.45 pm and continued for almost 45 minutes. According to the weather department officials, the city recorded 6.3 mm rainfall between 2.30 pm and 5.30 pm. There was, however, no rain in the Gangapur Road area. The residents of the Rasbihari-Meri link road area witnessed hail as well. “There hail shower continued for almost 10 minutes. Overall, the rain continued for around an hour,” said Mahesh Pagare, a city resident. “We were feeling the summer heat over the past few days, but the weather became cool after the unseasonal rains lashed the city. Thursday’s showers have given a major relief from the heat,” said Sangita Thakre, a housewife. Apart from Nashik city, showers were reported in parts of Kalwan, Trimbak, Niphad, Yeola and Sinnar talukas, However, so far, there have been no reports of crop damage due to rain. The city also recorded a drop in maximum temperature on Thursday. The minimum and maximum temperatures of the city were recorded at 23 degrees celsius and 37.5 degrees celsius, respectively on Thursday. The maximum temperature recorded was 1 degree below normal. The minimum and maximum temperatures of the city on Wednesday were recorded 24 degrees celsius and 39.2 degrees celsius. Malegaon & Jalgaon feel the heat at 42.8°C Although Nashik city got some relief from the summer heat due to unseasonal rains, other north Maharashtra cities like Malegaon and Jalgaon witnessed scorching heat. Malegaon tehsil town recorded maximum temperature of 42.8 degrees celsius on Thursday, which was 2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature of the tehsil town was recorded at 26 degrees celsius. Jalgaon also recorded maximum temperature of 42.8 degrees celsius on Thursday, which was 1 degree above normal. The minimum temperature of the Jalgaon city was recorded at 27.6 degrees celsius. END||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/unseasonal-rain-hail-cool-down-nashik-city/articleshow/75480019.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 1, 2020||India||Print media looking at loss of Rs 15,000 crore, need aid: INS||NEW DELHI: In a recent dispatch to the government, the domestic newspaper industry pegged its losses in the two months since the onset of coronavirus at close to Rs 4,500 crore and sought a strong stimulus package. The Indian Newspaper Society (INS), representing over 800 newspapers, said since economic activity had nearly collapsed and there was no advertising, losses were expected to continue at the same rate for the next six-seven months, and additional losses of Rs 12,000-15,000 crore were likely to pile up, unless the government came up with a stimulus package urgently. The INS reiterated the need for critical relief measures, including removal of 5% import duty on newsprint and a two-year tax holiday, both necessary to save newspapers and prevent them from turning sick. Since newsprint accounts for a very significant proportion of newspaper costs, the INS has appealed to the government for its complete waiver. The apex body for newspapers also said that apart from extending all relief being granted to other industries, the government should increase advertising rates in print media by 50% and ramp up its overall budget spend on print by 200%. The INS also said all outstanding advertising dues of the central and state governments should be settled forthwith. In the letter to the government, INS president Shailesh Gupta said newspaper establishments were finding it difficult to disburse salaries to employees and payments to vendors. As per INS estimates, the newspaper industry directly employs about 10 lakh people, while nearly 20 lakh are indirectly dependent on it. Each has been at the forefront of providing life-saving credible information across the country during the coronavirus pandemic and needed the government’s assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/print-media-looking-at-loss-of-rs-15000-crore-need-aid-ins/articleshow/75482599.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Vegetable vendors shifted, begin ops outside Panaji market complex||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has shifted fruits and vegetable vendors from the market complex to the open space along the Inox road connecting to the municipal market complex. A total of 120 vendors have started operations following the social distancing norms after CCP demarcated spots for each vendor at a distance of 1.5m from one another. “We will not open the market complex, instead we have allowed the vendors to sell their items outside it. we have blocked the road and have opened up the parking area at Inox for vehicles,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. These are local vegetable vendors who were not permitted inside the market complex owing to the lockdown and orders prohibiting open sale of produce inside the building complex. Fish vendors will also follow suit from Monday onwards. They will be accommodated in the parking lane adjoining Royal Foods. “There are 150-170 fish vendors who will be shifted there. By this weekend, we will mark spots for them to continue operations,” Madkaikar said. In an order signed by fisheries director Shamila Monteiro on Monday, vendors were advised against open sale and crowding during the sale of fish. The vendors have been carrying out home delivery of fish as the fisheries department has approved motorcycles with ice-box and mobile fish vans. The CCP will spray disinfectant solution in these spaces where the commodities are being sold to ensure that they are sanitised. “We are already sanitising public places, banks, ATMs, shops and entrances and staircases of buildings in Panaji. In addition to this, pre-monsoon work is also being carried out in the city.” Madkaikar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vegetable-vendors-shifted-begin-ops-outside-panaji-market-complex/articleshow/75481005.cms||Nida Sayed
May 1, 2020||Madurai||Amma canteens served 4.09 lakh people during lockdown: Corpn||Madurai: Madurai corporation has provided food for 4.09 lakh people during the lockdown between March 23 and April 28 through 12 Amma canteens in the city, the corporation officials have claimed.Amma canteens, which have been serving two meals a day, extended the service making it available in the night also as people have nowhere else to go for food during the lockdown. On a day, more than 20, 000 idly, 850 pongal, 1500 sambar rice, 2000 curd rice, 1500 coconut rice, 1500 lemon rice, 700 upma and 100 to 200 veg biryani are served at the canteens.The number of people benefitting from Amma canteens in the city went up during the lockdown and has gone further up during the four-day complete lockdown from Sunday to Wednesday. Officials said that the number spiked by at least 10 to 15% during the intensive lockdown period.“Corporation commissioner has told us to increase the production of food if the number of people visiting the canteen is up. While food has been already served at a subsidized price, it is now being served free after AIADMK offered to sponsor it for the past 10 days. The canteen saw more crowd since food was served free,” an health department official said.P Sevugan, 55, a carpenter from Munichalai said that he used to eat food at roadside eateries before the lockdown. But for him, Amma canteen is the only option now as shops and hotels have been closed.“The quality of food served is good. Since food is now served free, those who could not afford now benefit a lot,” he said. V Suseela, a servant from Alwarpuram, who is living with her 10-year-old boy said they have been regularly having food at Amma Canteen. ·||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/amma-canteens-served-4-09-lakh-people-during-lockdown-corpn/articleshow/75481015.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||9-month-old leopard cub rescued from well in Junnar||Pimpri Chinchwad: A nine-month-old leopard cub was rescued from a well in Vadgaon Anand village, around 93km from the city, in Junnar taluka on Thursday afternoon.Otur range forest officer Yogesh Ghodke said, “Round officer SK Sakunke received information around noon that a leopard cub had fallen into a half-filled 50ft-deep well in Vadgaon Anand. The cub had got tired after swimming for a long time and was trying to get support of an iron rod in the well.”The forest officials first cleared away the villagers and began the rescue operation. “We first put an empty plastic crate, used for transporting fruits and vegetables, into the well to rescue the cub but it did not work. Then we lowered an iron ladder to enable the cub to climb on it and lifted it out,” Godke said.“The leopard jumped out and ran away into the surrounding sugar cane fields as soon as one end of the ladder reached the top edge of the well”, beat-in-charge VR Adagale said.Villagers said that they had sighted leopards several times in the village, said Adagale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-month-old-leopard-cub-rescued-from-well-in-junnar/articleshow/75481709.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid infected women deliver healthy babies at Jaipur hospital||JAIPUR: A woman, who has been infected with Covid-19, delivered a healthy baby at Jaipur’s Zanana Hospital on Wednesday evening. It is not an isolated case as many such infected women from different coronavirus hotbeds of city are giving birth to healthy babies. According to government figures, 25 pregnant women were admitted to Mahila Chikitsalaya which is well equipped to deal with such cases. Some of these mothers (whose Covid-19 positive reports came late) breastfed their infants, however, the babies were tested negative for the virus. The doctors of Mahila Chikitsalaya are surprised to notice that these newborns have not contracted the virus from their mothers. Just like in HIV and Hepatitis, there are chances of vertical transmission of virus from infected mother to the babies, but in Covid-19 case, the doctors have discovered that there is no vertical transmission of virus from infected mother to their newborns. Dr Shalini Rathore, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Mahila Chikitsalaya, said, “It is surprising but true. There is no evidence of vertical transmission of virus from infected mothers to babies. It is a matter of study which we are conducting to find out what prevents them from contracting the virus from their infected mothers when they are in their womb. It could be the antigens which are passed from mothers to babies, thus preventing them from getting infected. Infants start producing their own antibodies after six months of their birth. These are all matter of research,” said Rathore. Pregnant women from hotbeds in Jaipur such as Ramganj, Shastri Nagar, MD Road and other nearby districts are brought to Mahila Chikitsalaya. The doctors examine them as they reach the hospital and take their sample for Covid-19 test. Almost all the pregnant woman brought to the hospital were asymptomatic. These women do not have any symptoms of Covid-19 such as fever and cough. But, they are tested positive for coronavirus. We treat them for five days with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin. Majority of them have recovered. However, the doctors also discovered that in normal delivery, the Covid-19 positive women do not develop any complication but in caesarean delivery, in which operation is required, such women develop complications. Such a woman had died who was brought to Bharatpur in serious condition. Her baby had died before delivery. The woman underwent operation, but didn’t survive. Those infants born to infected mothers are kept in nursery till their mothers get cured of Covid-19. The hospital provides milk to infants from their milk bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-infected-women-deliver-healthy-babies/articleshow/75481006.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Traders anxious after medical wholesale hub worker dies||KOLKATA: A day after an employee in a shop at Mehta Building, one of the largest wholesale hubs for medicines, died on Wednesday, traders decided to impose stricter measures for those visiting any of the four markets—Mehta, Bagri, Kajaria and Ezra Street—on Canning Street to buy drugs stocks. The worker, who had tested positive for Covid-19, had stopped reporting to work at the market 12 days ago. Calcutta Wholesale Medicine Market Area Committee of Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association has written to the state government, requesting for sanitisation of the entire place inside Mehta Building, where medicine shops have been open throughout the lockdown. Adjoining markets, such as Bagri and Kajaria, which also have several medicine shops will also be sanitised. The members said they would start carrying out thermal scanning of all visitors and regulate the entry and exit of buyers. No shop inside these markets, other than those dealing in medicines, would be allowed to resume business, one of the members said. “Panic has spread among shop owners after one of the workers in a medicine shop in Mehta Building died. He had not been coming here for several days but we have decided to undertake additional precautionary measures as medicine supply is an essential service and we cannot afford to down shutters,” said Chandresh B Sanghvi, general secretary of the Calcutta area committee. Two other persons in Mehta Building, who had contracted novel coronavirus, have already recovered. The entire building was sanitised by the KMC after the first case was detected. The anxiety among traders is even more pronounced as Mehta Building and other medicine markets are located in an area, where several cases of infected people have been reported. A few days ago, a security guard at a market on Canning Street reportedly died, after which the entire Amartolla Lane was sealed. “We are sacred. Several owners are not opening their shops out of the fear that they might contract the virus. But if all of us stop business, there will be a medicine crisis in the market,” said a wholesaler at Mehta Building. A police officer said it was difficult to monitor everybody visiting the medicine market. “People come from all parts of the city and suburbs go there to buy drugs and medical equipment. Many of them are from hospitals and nursing homes as well. There is no way of finding out who is a carrier of the virus. We, along with the market associations, are trying to implement social distancing inside the hubs,” said the officer. Many owners have even tied ropes at the entrance of their shops. “I don’t let anybody inside. Buyers queue up outside. Our people take the prescription or purchase orders and hand out the consignments,” said Fairway Traders, a wholesaler. The markets, which used to stay open from 10 in the morning to 8 at night, now operate between 11am and 5pm. “Owing to the curtailed hours, sometimes there is a crowd inside,” said Sanghvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-anxious-after-med-wholesale-hub-worker-dies/articleshow/75480052.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||9-year-old girl donates Rs 11,111 to CM relief fund||Rajkot: A nine-year-old girl in Jamnagar donated Rs 11,111 to chief minister relief fund on Thursday. “I had saved this amount in my piggy bank. I also want to join the fight against corona by making this donation,” said Shrutiba Jadeja, a student of Class III. It may be recalled that recently a nine-year-old boy, Mihir Shah, from Jamnagaar had donated Rs 11,000 to the CM relief fund on the occassion of his birthday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/9-year-old-girl-donates-rs-11111-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75479002.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||3 die, 118 test positive for virus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Three persons died, two in Jaipur and one in Udaipur, from Covid-19 infection on Thursday, taking the death toll in Rajasthan to 58. Additionally, 146 persons tested positive for the virus on the day. The total count of coronavirus infected persons in the state now stands at 2,584. Most of the deaths have occured in Jaipur, which accounted for 32 of the total 58 virus fatalities in the state. A 67-year-old resident of Chandi Ki Taksal of Jaipur, who was admitted to the MG hospital on April 19, died on Wednesday. He was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Another death was reported from Sodala. A 54-year-old person, who was rushed from his house in Sodala to SMS Hospital on April 25, died on Wednesday. His condition deteriorated as he had diabetes and hypertension. Both deaths were confirmed on Thursday. Apart from these two deaths, one person died in Udaipur. A 43-year-old resident of Nimbaheda of Chittorgarh, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 25, died on Thursday. He was undergoing treatment at MBG Hospital. The cause of concern for health authorities is that the person had no underlying condition. According to health department officials, 146 persons were found infected with coronavirus on Thursday afternoon. Among districts which reported cases are Jodhpur (97), Jaipur (29), Ajmer (4), Chittorgarh (3), Tonk (2), Kota (5), Banswara (2), Dholpur (1), Alwar (2) and Baran which reported its first Covid-19 case. In the state, 29 districts have reported Covid-19 cases so far. Health department officials in Jodhpur said, “The samples were sent to Delhi for clearing backlog. The reports of these samples were issued today, which is why, increased number of patients have been found positive. They belonged to Bamba mohalla and nearby areas which falls in 3 km radius.” In Jaipur, out of 29 persons, four were tested positive in Ramganj, five from Shastri Nagar, four from Sadbhawna Nagar, three each from Adarsh Nagar and MD Road, while one each case was reported from Idgah, Sitapura, Gandhi Vihar, Bapu Bazar, Luniyawas, Shyam Sundar Nagar, Murlipura, Bani Park , Malviya Nagar and one from unknown area. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the threat of coronavirus was slowly but surely fading away. “In the state, there are only seven districts which have reported over 100 cases. There are seven districts where there are no active cases of Covid-19. Other districts have reported sporadic cases. A lot of them have recovered. Currently, only nine Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in ICUs. Among them, only two are on ventilator support,” Sharma said. According to the health department, 836 patients have recovered and 592 discharged so far from hospitals after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-die-118-test-positivefor-virus-in-the-state/articleshow/75481030.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Three held for violating curfew norms||MARGAO: The South Goa police have intensified their crackdown against violators of the prohibitory orders imposed by the authorities in view of the nationwide lockdown. On Wednesday, Maina Curtorim police arrested three persons in three separate cases, both roadside vendors, for selling their wares in the open spaces and not maintaining social distancing. In the first case, police arrested Shabina Kareshi while she was selling watermelons, grapes, pineapples and other fruits by the roadside, while in the other, Hayam Fajula was arrested for selling tarpaulin kept in a rickshaw parked on a roadside open space at Gudi junction at Sao Jose de Areal. In the third case, Maina Curtorim police arrested Khalid Shaikh, while selling fruits and vegetables at Don Khuris, Sao Jose de Areal. The Margao town police on Wednesday arrested 12 persons who had gathered near the municipal garden, under the banner of Saloon Owners Association, released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-held-for-violating-curfew-norms/articleshow/75481024.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||Uniformed services top choice for students of Class X in state||Pune: About 19.3% of Class X students opted for uniformed services as their first choice of profession, while 17.6% chose fine arts as the next option in an interest-cum-aptitude test conducted by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.The results of the test were released on Thursday. Over 15 lakh Class X students from across the state participated in the online test where their interest and aptitude was checked to determine which of the seven options -- agriculture/humanities/commerce/fine arts/health and life sciences/technical/uniformed services -- were the best option for students intending to pursue higher education.“With the lockdown in place, it was very difficult to compile the data and release it on time. But our team managed to do it. The students will be able to check the results online at 1pm on Friday on www.mahacareermitra.in,” said Sheetal Bapat, founder director, Shyamchi Aai Foundation, which conducts the online app-based tests jointly with the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education and the State Council of Educational Research and Training. Bapat also spoke about how socio-political circumstances and pop culture play a role in students’ career decision. “There have been many military-related issues, and movies in the recent past which obviously influence students. Less and less students are choosing technology or engineering which some years ago was the preferred choice. Fine arts option has also been growing, thanks to the emphasis on liberal education. Students are also opting for unconventional professions such as baking, design or culinary arts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uniformed-services-top-choice-for-students-of-class-x-in-state/articleshow/75481721.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 1, 2020||Goa||After bizmen’s plea, CCP mulling over tax waiver||Panaji: The Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) is mulling waiving garbage tax as well as trade and license fees for restaurants, hotels and wine shops for the period that they have been shut due to the lockdown. “In principle we have agreed but we have to see for how many days the lockdown will continue. Our MLA Atanasio Monserrate has also said that their demand is fair and that they need to be given some exemption. He said that we have no right to collect money from them when their businesses have been stopped,” mayor Uday Madkaikar told reporters on Thursday. He admitted this would result in considerable loss of revenue for the government and that the corporation would have to ask the government for a financial package to ensure that development work is not affected. 70% of the corporation’s revenue is spent on salaries of staff, Madkaikar said. Earlier in the day, a delegation of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) representatives led by president Manoj Caculo requested the corporation and Monserrate to waive taxes for hotels, restaurants and wine shops which have been shut, Madkaikar said. GCCI in its representation to CCP stated that from the start of the 45-day lockdown, no relief has been given to commercial establishments, as a result of which all shops, offices, restaurants, hotels, malls, cinema houses had to remain shut and could not do any business activity. “It will take another six to twelve months for business to attain normalcy. This is going to have a huge impact on the profitability of all these business establishments,” Caculo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-bizmens-plea-ccp-mulling-over-tax-waiver/articleshow/75481047.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Jaipur||To this Jaipur family of distributors, Kapoor was kin||(Pl take 350 words only) EDITED: (530 words) Jaipur: For the Bansals, late actor Rishi Kapoor was more than just a professional acquaintance. The family from Jaipur, who has been into film distribution for generations, has had cordial relations with the veteran actor over the years. Kapoor was present at the wedding of Sunil Bansal, a film distributor from the city, in 1982 in Mumbai. It was not just a courtesy visit, but Kapoor was friendly and jovial at the function, while making sure his presence did not make anyone uncomfortable. What started at a marriage function, soon after the release of Kapoor’s film ‘Karz’, became a long-lasting bond that the family continued to share with the actor. Since then, Kapoor visited the family several times in various functions, where he was on top of the guests’ list. Bansals are into film distribution business since ’60s when Late Om Prakash Bansal started the film distribution business. They have had professional relations with some and personal bonds with many filmmakers, including the likes of Yash Johar, Yash Chopra, among others. Hearing of the demise of Kapoor, Raj Bansal, elder son of OP Bansal, said, “I remember meeting him at his house in Mumbai along with Sanjay Dutt in January this year. We thought we should not stay for long and intended to make it a courtesy visit, since Rishi had returned after his treatment for cancer from USA. But he insisted we stay for dinner. I remember him discussing various events of his life. We laughed a lot. He told me to get back to work as soon as he gets normal and urged me for a visit to the Jain temple situated at Padampura on the outskirts of Jaipur,” Raj recalled. He added that once, Kapoor had visited the Jain temple and since then, he always made it a point to visit the temple. “While he was off to USA after being diagnosed with cancer, he asked me to pray for his well-being,” Raj said in a choked voice. Sunil Bansal recalled his wedding function and said, “He walked in, greeted me and straightened my tie. He behaved more like a friend than a star.” Raj added, “He was shooting for the film ‘Chandni’ in Delhi when I got closer to him through Yash Chopra ji. Thereafter, when he came to Jaipur for the shoot of his film ‘Ajooba’, I told him that I have been blessed with a son, and he asked if he could see my son. He came to our house in Jaipur and blessed my son. Thereafter, he visited us on the first birthday of my son. Later, in 2016, when my son got married, I gave him a formal invitation over the phone and he did come as promised.” “At the wedding, he wanted to have food with the guests. I told him to go back to the hotel, where food was arranged for him, to which he had said, ‘Yeh khana thodi milega’ (I won’t get this food there) and laughed,” Raj recalled. Since 1976, when Kapoor shot his film ‘Laila Majnu’, he visited Rajasthan frequently, especially Jaipur. His last film which was shot here was ‘Delhi-6’ in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-this-jaipur-family-of-distributors-kapoor-was-kin/articleshow/75481051.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Pursuit of knowledge: Presidency University plans ‘skill’ courses, CU opens up digital library||KOLKATA: Classroom learning being put on hold for at least one more month, Presidency and Calcutta universities are adopting novel steps for online education and research aimed at helping students as well as outsiders hone their skills in fields they are interested in. While Presidency is setting up a unique learning platform during the lockdown, Calcutta University is offering free access to its digital library. Presidency University is exploring the possibility of launching value-added courses, which will bring different aspects of society, industry as well as academics on an online platform. The university plans to offer these “extra-curricular” on-demand courses for its students as well as anyone interested in enrolling in the programme, which will be conducted in addition to its current academic initiatives and online classes for its students of UG, PG and beyond. “It is a futuristic approach towards education. The lockdown has made us realize the importance of online courses to upskill individuals,” a Presidency official added.  Most of the online courses, which could be used for professional and career development, would be based on specialization, the official said. Students can sharpen their skills in a specific subject that they can pick from major fields of study and they will be assessed online, accordingly. Also, an equivalence or credit hours would be awarded for each online course, but no certificate would be given out, the official added. For these online courses, the university is creating a dedicated platform, where teachers involved will upload videos and each session will have the option of comments below it. Most of the online programmes will be completed between four and 10 weeks, each week hosting two or three hours of lectures, teachings and interactive sessions. The programmes will involve quizzes, peer-graded assignments, exercises and tutorials, along with a final capstone project. “It is an advanced trend in education, expanding the reach of interested learners. If internal students want to opt for a few credit hours taught through the programme, they can do so,” said a teacher. “The plan is in a nascent stage and we are developing further.”  At Calcutta University, the authorities are allowing free access to its digital library, which will be reachable through its website, https://www.culibrary.ac.in. “We have two major reasons for taking this step: the first is our responsibility to our students and faculty, whose education and research have been obstructed by the prohibition on physical access to the library collections. The second is our responsibility, as a public institution, to the citizenry and the world at large. Education is a public good, and the necessity and value of academic research increase, more than ever, if our society is to recover from this crisis. As a public university, it is our responsibility to make the part of our digital collection of global academic commons to facilitate the pursuit of knowledge beyond borders,” said vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. Till now, the library facilities and resources, including digital collections, were accessible to users on the campuses. Now, the digitized collection has been made accessible for free reading from any part of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pursuit-of-knowledge-presi-plans-skill-courses-cu-opens-up-digital-library/articleshow/75480096.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 1, 2020||Rajkot||Unseasonal rains continue in Saurashtra districts||Rajkot: Another round of unseasonal rains was reported from Rajkot, Amreli and Jamnagar districts on Thursday, causing a heavy damage to the stock of groundnut, onions, chillies and wheat kept in Gondal Market Yard.The rains destroyed the crops of mangoes in Talala, Mendarda, Dhari and Khambha. Such was the impact of the torrential rain in Gondal that hoardings were blown away. Kalawad taluka of Jamnagar district received rains on the third consecutive day. Bhachau, Dhudhai and Dhrang of Kutch district also received rain showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unseasonal-rains-continue-in-saurashtra-districts/articleshow/75479078.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||ICAR to assess impact ofCovid-19 on farm sector||Panaji: Goa-based ICAR-CCARI will study the impact of coronavirus on farming with respect to the problems faced, losses incurred, marketing, etc. The directorate of arecanut and spices development, Kerala has written to the heads of ICAR institutes to assess the impact and loss in spice sector due to Covid-19 and the measures to overcome its adverse effects. This would, however, require ICAR-CCARI to conduct a door-to-door survey. “All of this is possible only after the lockdown is lifted. For now, there will be no gatherings, no Krishi melas and no conferences,” director of ICAR-CCARI, E B Chakurkar said. He said that carrying out the assessment will first require a census of the total number of farmers carrying out spice cultivation, the area under cultivation and the losses incurred. With lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms in play, a detailed survey is difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/icar-to-assess-impact-ofcovid-19-on-farm-sector/articleshow/75481070.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Varanasi||Drug wholesaler turns ‘super spreader’, infects 11, gets booked||VARANASI: The wholesaler of Saptsagar medicine market, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus on April 25, has emerged as the major contributor in spreading the infection and taking the district’s tally of infected people above 50. Among the 52 Covid-19 cases detected so far in Varanasi district, the total number of Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their contacts infected by them was 18 till Tuesday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma released the reports sent by Banaras Hindu University on Wednesday and said the number of people infected by the wholesaler has reached to 11. Talking to TOI the DM said, “An FIR had been lodged against the medicine wholesaler at the Manduadih police station under sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC on Tuesday. When people in his contact were screened and their samples collected and sent for test, his four family members, three employees and one customer had tested positive on Tuesday.” “Today, his three more contacts, including two owners of neighbouring shops in Saptsagar market and one more employee has been found infected,” he added. Health teams have collected samples of over 100 people of which maximum are those who came in contact with the wholesaler or those who got infected after coming in his contact. Officials are apprehensive about the possibility of more people among his contacts being found infected. The FIR was lodged against the medicine trader after collection of proper evidence, including video clips he himself posted on social media. In the videos, he was seen distributing packed drinks to home guards and police personnel at many crossings in the city without wearing mask or gloves. The trader had foreign travel history as he had returned from a trip to Europe. The DM said one more FIR has been lodged against two labourers, who reached Varanasi from Kolkata on April 22 by hiding in trucks and later tested positive. DM Sharma said, “Of the total infected persons, 18 were TJ attendees and their contacts following which localities like Madanpura, Revari Talab and Nakkhighat were declared hotspots. The medicine wholesaler has infected 12 people in all till now. Besides, as many as eight cops of Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost of Sigra police station form the bulk of Covid-19 positive patients in Varanasi.” Madauli, Saptsagar, Mahmoorganj, Pahadia, Maidagin, Chhoti Piyari joined the list of total 17 hotspots due to the trader and persons infected after coming in his contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drug-wholesaler-turns-super-spreader-infects-11-gets-booked/articleshow/75457741.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Excise department cracks whip, seals 200 liquor shops for illegal sale||PANAJI: The excise department is taking a tough stance against illegal liquor sale during the lockdown, with 200 retail shops sealed in the past few days for violations. A majority of these liquor outlets that were sealed are located in Pernem taluka (38), followed by Salcete (29) and Bardez (25). Excise commissioner Amit Satija said the retail shops were sealed following complaints of illegal sale by the licensees. “It was noticed that in Pernem, being a border town with neighbouring Maharashtra, the illegal sale of alcohol has been quite high,” he said. These 200 shops are in addition to the wholesale units sealed a fortnight ago across the state amid suspicion that licensees would illegally divert their stocks. Since the lockdown, Satija said the department has received 72 complaints of illegal liquor sale, while 15 licenses have been suspended since March 22. The department also seized 20,729 litres of alcohol since March 26. Some cases of seizures entailed illegal sale of alcohol without a license, he said. In such instances, the liquor stock was seized while licenses were suspended of those violating licence norms. On Wednesday, a certain quantity of alcohol was seized in Sanguem which was being smuggled out of Goa in a van that had arrived with vegetables from Karnataka. Satija said it has come to their notice that delivery vehicles entering the state are used for smuggling liquor. Hence, officials have been directed to thoroughly check the vehicles exiting the state at the border checkposts, he said. In view of the lockdown, retailers have adopted various methods to sell liquor. Sources said some retailers sell liquor through their private vehicles which are parked in the vicinity of their stores. “Regular customers know where to buy their drinks,” the source said. The alcohol that is seized is later auctioned. However, in some cases, it is released in the custody of the licensee if he is able to justify that the quantum of the stock is his possession at the time of the raid was not illegally held. The licensee is also made to pay a penalty for the same. Meanwhile, the excise department is expected to post a revenue loss about 50 to 60% for the month of April owing to the ban on liquor sale, an official said. Usually, the revenue collection for April is in the range of Rs 30-40 crore, he said. “We haven’t assessed the exact loss of revenue yet, but it will be more than 50%,” he said. There are 11,242 licenses of various kinds issued by the excise department, of which the maximum (3,924 ) are in Bardez, followed by Salcete (1,898) and Tiswadi (1,405).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/excise-dept-cracks-whip-seals-200-liquor-shops-for-illegal-sale/articleshow/75481060.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Social distancing washed away as many rush to fill water from tankers||Kolhapur: A large number of residents from the A, C and D wards, who have been facing water scarcity over the last four days, tossed the social distancing norms and dashed towards the tankers deployed by the civic administration on Thursday. Many people were seen standing outside their houses even before the water tankers reached the affected localities. A large crowd of residents, especially women, were spotted shoving and elbowing each other to move towards the water tankers and fill their vessels in Shaniwar Peth, Khasbaug, Belbaug, Mangalwar Peth, Timber Market, Shivaji Peth and Rajendra Nagar areas. Some people were filling as many vessels as possible due to the uncertainty looming large over when will the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) water distribution system be regularised.Though the civic body pressed 18 water tankers into service, they were not adequate enough. No sooner did the tankers reach the affected localities, they were emptied in a couple of minutes given the frenzy that the citizens were caught in to fill their vessels. Infact, a special team deputed by the KMC to ensure that people observed social distancing while filling water from the tankers were helpless in the face of the humongous crowd. The water supply to the localities in these wards was disrupted four days ago as a valve in the rising main pipeline at Balinga pumping station developed a major leak, resulting in loss of huge amount of water. The water supply could not be restored as a major technical snag had developed in the transformer at Nagdeowadi. The KMC was finding it difficult to maintain the required water level at Chambukhadi water tank. As a result, water supply in several areas was either completely stopped or were getting water at low pressure. The worst affected areas were Laxmipurr, Bindu chowk, Mirajkar tickety, Mahalaxmi temple, Azad chowk, Shahupuri, Shaniwar Peth, Shukrawar peth, Rankala stand and Gangavesh.The repair work of the transformer at Nagdeowadi was completed late on Thursday evening. Officials from the civic administration said that the water-lifting work has begun and that the supply was expected to normalise by Friday morning. With most of the schools and offices shut due to the nationwide lockdown that has been imposed to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19, most citizens are staying home, as a result of which domestic water consumption has significantly increased. Residents in the affected localities were agitated as because the water cuts were introduced at a time when summer is already in and even the nationwide lockdown is in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/social-distancing-washed-away-as-many-rush-to-fill-water-from-tankers/articleshow/75480091.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Delhi||Lack of steps led to infection spread in Moti Bagh: Councillor||NEW DELHI: Six days after a trader at Azadpur Mandi, a resident of E-Block in Moti Bagh, tested Covid-positive, three of his family members were diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday and Thursday. However, area councillor Vipin Malhotra alleged that in total seven people had tested positive. While six of them belonged to the trader’s family, one was a neighbour. He blamed the local administration of hiding figures and not making enough safety arrangements after April 25 (when the trader tested positive), which resulted in an increase in the number of cases. Delhi government, however, denied the allegations and maintained that officials paid regular visits to the area. Malhotra alleged, “When the first case was reported from E-Block in Moti Nagar, we informed the deputy commissioner (west zone) of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The patient was then sent to the quarantine facility at Najafgarh. Later, despite our requests, no initiative was taken for contact tracing in the lane. Even the family members were not tested. No Delhi government staff came here.” “Four days ago, I spoke to the family members and they told me that they got themselves tested at a private lab. On Thursday, six family members and a neighbour tested Covid-positive,” said the councillor in a video. A government official said, “We were in touch with the family. On April 25, two people tested positive — one each from E and F Blocks, both relatives. They have been quarantined. Later, we got in touch with other family members who got themselves tested. On April 29, one person’s report came positive. A day later, two others tested positive. The last two people were asymptomatic, so we suggested home isolation for them.” “The report of one more family member is awaited. We have barricaded a portion of the lane. If required, we will declare it a containment zone. A team of officials visited the place on Thursday,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/councillor-lack-of-steps-led-to-infection-spread/articleshow/75481748.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 1, 2020||Goa||At Dabolim, six hours of preps for each rescue flight||Panaji: Goa International Airport is used to handling chartered flights filled with tourists coming to enjoy the sunny shores of Goa. But ever since the novel coronavirus pandemic gripped the world, Goa’s lone airport at Dabolim has become accustomed to handling a different kind of chartered flights. The naval-controlled airport has become the focal point for foreigners to be rescued by their respective nations. Hours and often days before a flight can land at Goa International Airport, private agencies and government departments have to coordinate to ensure all systems run smoothly and to minimise the risk of infection. “At a time when the airport is not fully operational, each repatriation flight takes five to six hours of preparation,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. He adds that the airport is functioning at just 30% strength. Till date, 33 rescue flights have been chartered by 12 different nations, with some more flights planned over the next few days. According to the nodal officer for repatriation of foreigners, of the approximately 58,000 foreigners who have left the country, 6,447 foreigners flew out from Goa. Of these, British tourists formed a major chunk at 42%, while three other countries namely Russia, Germany and Finland accounted for 80% of those who were repatriated. Given that some airlines do not have a credit facility with the Airports Authority of India, AAI has allowed some countries to operate rescue flights on a cash-and-carry basis. This, explained Malik, means that the Captain of the flight has to pay all the charges with a credit card before being allowed to take-off. The cash and carry payment runs into lakhs as it involves various charges including landing charges, fuel, route navigation facility charges (RNFC), passenger service fees (PSF), parking charges and GST. Airlines like Belavia Belarusian Airlines, Edelweiss Air and SCAT Airlines do not operate scheduled flights to India and thus lack a credit facility with AAI. These airlines operated rescue flights to Goa to evacuate citizens of their respective countries. Aside from AAI and the airlines, the Indian Navy, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, private ground handling agencies and consulates have chipped in to coordinate the rescue flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-dabolim-six-hours-of-preps-for-each-rescue-flight/articleshow/75481080.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||MNREGA adding jobs, but few benefitting||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the job guarantee programme is over-performing in giving work but is providing succour to very few people, pointing to the challenges that lie ahead as the government seeks to tap the scheme to help the pandemic-hit jobless with wage employment. MGNREGA has generated 3.59 crore person days of work in the country in the financial year 2020-21. An overwhelming chunk of work can be attributed to the nine days since April 20 when the scheme resumed following the nationwide lockdown. However, it has provided jobs to just around 49 lakh people. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesIt presents a stark contrast to the pattern witnessed in 2019-20. April 2019 generated 91 lakh person days of work, much lower than the corresponding month this year already -- which points to high demand in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown and job losses. However, when MGNREGA generated 264 crore person days in the whole of 2019-20, as many as 7.87 crore people had participated — pointing to the vast catchment area of the employment programme which caters to distressed labour. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe pattern this year, thus, points to intense exploitation of job scheme in a few states even as it has seriously failed to take off in many large states. The skewed graph indicates that MGNREGA is providing jobs to a smaller slice of rural households in need. One reason appears to be that the scheme is doing well in states where coronavirus has had limited impact while it is facing serious hurdles in states hit hard by the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh leads the chart with 111 lakh person days of work followed by Chhattisgarh which has provided 80.74 lakh person days. Among the biggest failures appears to be Uttar Pradesh which has managed just 6.05 lakh person days of work despite its large rural poor populace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mnregs-adding-jobs-but-few-benefitting/articleshow/75482610.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Hyderabad||HC gives go-ahead for road expansion, bridge in Panjagutta||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has accorded a green signal to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to go ahead with road expansion and construction of a separate steel bridge to ease traffic at the busy Panjagutta Hindu graveyard area. Agreeing with the state’s contention that since traffic is minimal now on account of the ongoing lockdown, the authorities should be allowed to quickly complete the task, the bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy directed the GHMC to remove the existing hoardings in the area that stood in the way of this proposed road expansion and steel bridge work. The bench heard the objections raised by the organisers of hoardings whose license period ended on March 31. Advocate General BS Prasad said, “The traffic is getting blocked at the graveyard and the officials have proposed to build a dedicated steel bridge separately straight into the graveyard as it would ease the traffic woes in the area. There cannot be any better time to do so as traffic is almost nil now and it would be easy for the GHMC to quickly erect the bridge and to expand the road there. The bench said that larger public interest would prevail over individual rights. However, it said that GHMC should ensure that the hoardings are safely removed and kept so that the owners can use them if the GHMC allots them any alternative space to install their hoardings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-gives-go-ahead-for-road-expansion-bridge-in-panjagutta/articleshow/75481095.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu readies for migration of workers||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has chalked out a plan to facilitate the return of people from the state stranded in other parts of the country, 37 days after the lockdown kicked in. The government will on Friday host a portal that will enable people from the state to self register themselves along with details of the place where they are stuck. Similarly, guest workers and people from other states can use the facility to self-report. They can also report whether they want to stay back or return to their native places. Based on the data generated by the self-registrations, the team set up for the purpose will act. “We are working out certain modules to help them reach home safely,” additional chief secretary of revenue and disaster management Atulya Misra told TOI. Misra, the nodal officer, will “regulate issues relating to the movement of people, including pilgrims, tourists, students and migrant workers, who are stranded in different places due to the lockdown,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam in an official communication to secretary of the Union ministry of home affairs. The government has been taking various factors into consideration before bringing back people caught elsewhere. “We want to know whether they are willing to come on their own or they are seeking transport facilities. Volunteers and NGOs are willing to support them,” said Misra. The authorities want to be ready with quarantine facilities, particularly institutional facilities, for people coming into the state from the containment zone. “We are also working out a strategy to facilitate people travelling from distant places. They have to pass through containment zones, inter-states and inter-districts borders without hardship.” Sources said the government authorities would interact with their counterparts in Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, which account for the most number of guest workers in Tamil Nadu, to work out the mode of transport for their return journey. “Majority of migrant labourers in the state are from north and eastern states. It is not a good move to ferry them in buses. The Centre should operate trains for them. The state government is willing to take labourers from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala states in buses,” said a senior bureaucrat, preferring anonymity. M Muthamil Selvan of Perambalur’s Makkaikulam and 200 others have been stranded in Rathnagiri in Maharashtra since March 24. “We protested on Wednesday, demanding that the authorities let us go home. The officials here said they will make arrangements, if our (Tamil Nadu) state government is willing. They have also collected information about each of us from parents to village names…,” 26-year-old M G Vignesh of Kanykumari’s Kottar village. He and other booked tickets expecting the 21-day lockdown would be lifted on April 14, but were disappointed. “We are yet to receive the money spent for the tickets,” said Vignesh. It is still unclear how the self-reporting portal will help hundreds of uneducated and daily wage workers, without smart phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-readies-for-migration-of-workers/articleshow/75481093.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 1, 2020||Kolkata||Ordinance may extend KMC board’s term||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation board plans to revisit history and take a leaf out of the Congress board in the 1970s, when elected councillors had functioned even after expiry of their term, to ensure that crucial civic functions are not disrupted while the city is battling with the pandemic. The five-year term of the KMC’s Trinamool board will expire on May 7. Usually, boards are dissolved at the end of the term and a state-nominated administrator is appointed to carry out the functions. Given the emergency situation for Covid-19 in the city and elsewhere, the state may introduce an ordinance to nominate councillors to ensure that crucial ward-level activities do not go unattended. This nomination process will, however, require the approval of the governor. “An ordinance is essential to ensure legitimacy of councillors who will otherwise cease to be elected representatives after May 7,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ordinance-may-extend-kmc-boards-term/articleshow/75480110.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Goa||Officials designated to impose fines||Panaji: The government has authorised talathis of every taluka, police personnel of the rank of head constable and above, municipal inspectors and village panchayat secretaries to impose fines on presons who fail to wear face masks in public places. The person violating the instructions will be liable for a penalty of Rs 100. In case of non-payment, the person will be liable for action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The type of mask to be worn has however not been specified. The face cover includes masks available at pharmacies and even homemade washable masks which can be reused after proper washing and disinfecting .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-designated-to-impose-fines/articleshow/75481086.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Social distancing washed away as many rush to fill water from tankers||Kolhapur: A large number of residents from the A, C and D wards, who have been facing water scarcity over the last four days, tossed the social distancing norms and dashed towards the tankers deployed by the civic administration on Thursday. Many people were seen standing outside their houses even before the water tankers reached the affected localities. A large crowd of residents, especially women, were spotted shoving and elbowing each other to move towards the water tankers and fill their vessels in Shaniwar Peth, Khasbaug, Belbaug, Mangalwar Peth, Timber Market, Shivaji Peth and Rajendra Nagar areas. Some people were filling as many vessels as possible due to the uncertainty looming large over when will the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) water distribution system be regularised.Though the civic body pressed 18 water tankers into service, they were not adequate enough. No sooner did the tankers reach the affected localities, they were emptied in a couple of minutes given the frenzy that the citizens were caught in to fill their vessels. Infact, a special team deputed by the KMC to ensure that people observed social distancing while filling water from the tankers were helpless in the face of the humongous crowd. The water supply to the localities in these wards was disrupted four days ago as a valve in the rising main pipeline at Balinga pumping station developed a major leak, resulting in loss of huge amount of water. The water supply could not be restored as a major technical snag had developed in the transformer at Nagdeowadi. The KMC was finding it difficult to maintain the required water level at Chambukhadi water tank. As a result, water supply in several areas was either completely stopped or were getting water at low pressure. The worst affected areas were Laxmipurr, Bindu chowk, Mirajkar tickety, Mahalaxmi temple, Azad chowk, Shahupuri, Shaniwar Peth, Shukrawar peth, Rankala stand and Gangavesh.The repair work of the transformer at Nagdeowadi was completed late on Thursday evening. Officials from the civic administration said that the water-lifting work has begun and that the supply was expected to normalise by Friday morning. With most of the schools and offices shut due to the nationwide lockdown that has been imposed to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19, most citizens are staying home, as a result of which domestic water consumption has significantly increased. Residents in the affected localities were agitated as because the water cuts were introduced at a time when summer is already in and even the nationwide lockdown is in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/social-distancing-washed-away-as-many-rush-to-fill-water-from-tankers/articleshow/75480108.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ranchi||Fear of losing aid keeps Dumka workers away from NREGA jobs||DUMKA: Only 3% of total registered rural job card holders in the district have availed work under MNREGA, a week after the lockdown was relaxed. The remaining workers are reportedly scared to take up the work due to the deadly coronavirus pandemic. According to official data issued by the district administration, out of 1.49 lakh MNREGA job card holders across 206 villages in 10 blocks of Dumka, only 4,618 have turned up for jobs till April 28. Dumka DDC Shekhar Jamuar said, “There are few takers of the job opportunities even though we are trying our best to encourage people to minimise rural distress. We have begun MNREGA work in 195 out of total 206 village panchayats in the district and efforts are on to cover rest.” He said the low turnout could be because of the Covid-19 pandemic scare. Jamuar added that fear of losing government relief aid also add to the slow pace of work. However, steps are being taken to motivate the rural workers and reactivate the MNREGA activities by following social distancing and lockdown other norms, the DDC said. He said, “It is true that there is rural distress due to the lockdown and halt in economic activities, forcing the government to take up relief measures on a large scale. But the other side to it is the fear of losing access to the free aid. Hence, many in rural areas are unwilling to take up jobs. However, we are hopeful that the pace will pick up soon.” The rural pockets, particularly in tribal-dominated villages, have taken up strict implementation of lockdown by self-isolating their hamlets with barricades at entrances to prevent entry of people from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fear-of-losing-aid-keeps-dumka-workers-away-from-nrega-jobs/articleshow/75479384.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 1, 2020||Ranchi||Three new Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, Godda is 12th affected district||RANCHI: The rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases continued to remain low for the third day with Jharkhand recording four fresh cases — three of them from Ranchi— on Thursday. However, Godda became the 12th of 24 districts in the state to be affected by the virus as the tribal dominated district reported its first case. Meanwhile, a patient from Bokaro has recovered from the disease. The state’s coronavirus tally now stands at 110, of which 88 are active. Two patients have died and 20 have recovered. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni that Covid-19 death rate in the state is very low and they are enforcing the lockdown strictly across all 33 containment zones in state. “We have a death rate of less than 2.8%, way lesser than the national average. To strengthen critical care infrastructure, we have arranged a total of 206 beds with ventilator facilities,” he said. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “Of the three new cases, two are from Hindpiri and one is a staff at RIMS.” The two from Hindpiri are women in their mid-20s and one of them is pregnant. The third is a male aged 44 who works with the microbiology department at Rims. During a press conference earlier in the day, Kulkarni said they have classified all 24 districts in red, orange and green category as per Centre’s guidelines. “Ranchi has been designated as a red zone, nine districts are orange zone and 14 are green category. Orange districts will become green if they do not report any new cases for 21 days,” he said. On being asked about strengthening of the testing infrastructure, Kulkarni said: “Three new labs are being set up at our medical colleges in Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribag. We are also working on getting accreditation for private labs that have the necessary infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-new-covid-19-cases-in-ranchi-godda-is-12th-affected-district/articleshow/75479519.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 1, 2020||Ranchi||Rims doctor treating Lalu reinstated as unit head after minister’s ‘order’||Ranchi: Dr Umesh Prasad, one of the doctors treating former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), has been reinstated as unit in-charge of Rims medicine department, nine months after his removal from the post on allegations of forcing patients to buy medicines from a specific private shop. A departmental inquiry conducted into the allegations is yet to be completed, but a Rims official said no law has been violated in reinstating the doctor. Rims sources, however, said such reinstatements of persons after they were removed by a disciplinary committee without formal approval of the governing council of the institute is in violation of the rules. Prasad was reinstated on April 22, following a written order by Rims medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap, who was acting on the verbal orders of state health minister Banna Gupta. Rims director Dr D K Prasad removed Prasad from the post in July last year based on the findings of an inquiry into the allegations. A patient and his kin had accused Prasad of forcing them to buy medicines and other medical equipment from a specific private medical store located near Rims. The inquiry was conducted by a three-member committee comprising RIMS director Singh, medical superintendent Kashyap and deputy medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar. After finding the allegations true, the committee referred to the case to the governing body of the institute, which in turn recommended a departmental inquiry. Dr Kashyap said, “A departmental inquiry was initiated against him (Prasad) but the officer designated to investigate the matter submitted the file to the health minister stating his inability to do so. Hence, the minister ordered verbally to reinstate Prasad.” He added, “There is no violation of rules as the order will be concurred by the governing body in its next meeting. I have released the order after the minister has asked me to examine the file and give my comments. I have put forward my recommendations on the basis of which the minister exonerated Prasad.” Sources in health department claimed that the reinstatement of Dr Prasad is because of his closeness to Lalu, for whom the state Congress is now lobbying for parole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-doc-treating-lalu-reinstated-as-unit-head-after-ministers-order/articleshow/75479481.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ranchi||Livelihood locked, small traders sell veggies to make ends meet||Ranchi: With the lockdown hitting trades and businesses, many in the city have switched over from their core work to sell vegetables or fruits to earn money. Ranjeet Kumar Verma, who owns a cosmetics shop at Kutchery road, has begun selling vegetables to make ends meet. He said, “Due to the lockdown, my shops is closed for many weeks now and it was getting difficult to sustain my family of 10 members. Hence, I am selling vegetables, which is an essential item, after extension of the lockdown.” Verma added, “The lockdown had forced me to use my savings and since I don’t have any income with several liabilities like school fees, electricity bills, shop rent etc., I had no other option but to shift from my trade till the situation normalises.” Verma is not alone to switch to other trades, classified as essential commodities. Many roadside eateries and fast food kiosks, which once used to do brisk businesses, too, have also switched over. Ramswarup Jha, a tea stall owner at Radium road said, “From the last one month, I started selling vegetables after procuring it from nearby farmers, but it wasn’t easy.” Still the condition of these small-time traders is pitiable. The plight of farmers and fruit growers is also getting worse. They said they are facing problems in getting the right prices due to the poor market linkages from their farms. Dinesh Kumar, a farmer from Thakurgaon said, “The situation has improved a bit after the relaxation, but we are still facing loss as we used to send vegetables from our villages to other states, too. Due to the lockdown, we are only selling vegetables in nearby areas and most of our produces are either going waste or sold at very low rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/livelihood-locked-small-traders-sell-veggies-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75479277.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic unites people from across faiths during Ramzan||Ranchi: Members of various communities have come together to help Muslims observe the holy month of Ramzan amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Volunteers from across religions are helping Anjuman Islamia, a socio-religious body of Muslims, to ensure that no faithful goes to bed hungry as they fast during the day. The volunteers have pooled in resources and are distributing cooked meal for once a day to 3,000-odd families. The focus of the outfit is on the Muslim-dominated Hindpiri locality, which has emerged as the hotspot of the infection. Anjuman Islamia chairperson Ibrar Ahmad said they are distributing 3,000 packets of cooked meal along with some edibles for iftar — the customary meal while breaking fast in the evening — everyday. He said they also want to distribute essentials like fruits and bread, but are facing financial constraints. “Providing bread to 3,000 families entails an expense of Rs 30,000 every day. Though we have money, we do not want to exhaust all of it as the supplies must continue through the month,” he said. However, once the essentials Anjuman Islamia started the drive from its kitchen near Main Road, help started pouring in. Varsha Poddar, a student of the Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), is the bridge between the outfit and the district administration. She is coordinating supply of rice from the administration to the community kitchen and is the pointsperson for volunteers distributing the meals. “If cooked food is not possible, we are providing the people with dry ration like chana (bengal gram),” she said. Like Varsha, many other from the Hindu community are contributing to the effort. Ajay Shahdeo has given one LPG cylinder of the three being used in the kitchen. Deepak Ojha has been donating 3,000 sheets of aluminum foil to pack the food. “There is this Ashok ji — I believe he is a state government employee — who supervises the cooking and packing process so that meals are dispatched on time,” Ahmad said, expressing happiness that Ramzan this year has become a month of harmony and cooperation. He said Smita Mutt, an employee with the deputy commissioner’s office, has been coordinating delivery of rice, gram and other essentials. State minister for water supply and sanitation Mithilesh Thakur in his personal capacity has donated a few tins of cooking oil and seven quintals of bengal gram. “We are distributing 90kg of chana every day and we expect the stock to last at least a fortnight,” Ahmad said. Anjuman Islamia has received donations from locals as well as those living in other cities. Ahmad said the outfit also has funds for treatment of poor and they are currently utilising these to distribute food to the needy. Besides feeding rozedaars, the volunteers from Anjuam Kitchen are also feeding a few tribal families stranded in Hindpiri due to the lockdown. “These tribal labourers are from other districts and have been staying in Hindpiri’s Harijan basti. We are providing the same meals to them,” Ahmad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-unites-people-from-across-faiths-during-ramzan/articleshow/75479333.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 1, 2020||India||Pvt hosps must treat critical non-Covid patients: Govt||NEW DELHI: Amid complaints of private hospitals turning away patients needing critical healthcare services like dialysis, blood transfusion and chemotherapy or insisting on Covid-19 testing, the Centre has asked states to take immediate steps to resolve such grievances. On Thursday, health minister Harsh Vardhan wrote to all states asking them to take immediate steps to ensure uninterrupted blood donation and transfusion services for people with blood disorders such as thalassemia, haemophilia and ‘sickle cell’ anaemia. States have been also advised to ensure that all health facilities, especially in the private sector, remain functional and provide critical services so that patients who need these services do not face any difficulty, an official said. “States/UTs are advised that as per the guidelines issued on April 15 by the ministry of home affairs, all health services should remain functional during the lockdown period. The movement of service providers may be facilitated, especially for those working in the private sector,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. The Centre also issued detailed guidelines on standard operating procedures (SOP) for dialysis on April 7 as well as guidelines for blood donation and transfusion. Besides, it has also issued a guidance note to enable delivery of essential health services during the Covid-19 outbreak. This includes providing essential services for reproductive and child health, immunisation, communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, leprosy and vector-borne diseases, as well as non-communicable diseases such as cancer and dialysis. States/UTs have been advised to follow the guidelines regarding Covid-19 testing issued by Indian Council of Medical Research. Meanwhile, many states like Delhi have also directed the private sector to open healthcare facilities and follow protocols. It said action will be taken, including cancellation of registration, if any violation is found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pvt-hosps-must-treat-critical-non-covid-patients-govt/articleshow/75482612.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Business||Rs 65,000 crore needed to help the poor hit by Covid, Raghuram Rajan tells Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan said India will need to spend Rs 65,000 crore to help with food and cash the poor reeling under the effect of the coronavirus crisis. Rajan spoke about reviving the economy in a video interaction with Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, who on Thursday launched a series that will feature global and domestic experts on issues related to the pandemic. Asked by Rahul about the cost of helping the poor, Rajan said, “We will need Rs 65,000 crore, it is not that much.” The renowned economist said a permanent lockdown was not sustainable and India has to gradually come out of it by resuming economic activities. “We need to be cleverer in lifting the lockdown. We need to open up in a measured way as India does not have the capacity to feed people for long. We have to manage the reopening so when there are cases we isolate them,” he said, adding that re-imposing lockdown after lifting it would hurt the credibility in the fight against Coronavirus. Asked by Rajan about the difference between governance in the West and India, Rahul said, “The scale of the problem and at its heart the financial scale of the problem. The inequality and the nature of the inequality. Things like caste, the way Indian society is structured, is completely different than American society. Some of the ideas that hold India back are deeply embedded and often hidden. I think there is a lot of social change that is required in India.” Rajan further added that there will be a dialogue on reshaping of global economy and India can push for creation of a multi-polar global order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/65k-cr-needed-to-help-the-poor-hit-by-covid-rajan-tells-rahul/articleshow/75482616.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Pune||MSRTC and private buses to help move migrant labourers||PUNE: The state government plans to use private buses as well as Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses to take migrant workers back to their states. The Union government on Wednesday announced that migrant workers will be allowed to go back to their respective states via roads, provided their home states allow it. “Our plan to transport the workers should be ready by Friday. Apart from ensuring that the workers reach home, we also need to bring back state residents stuck in different districts. Further, people of Maharashtra stuck in other states must also be able to come back without much hassle,” state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI. “We will use private buses if needed but first we need specific details about the workers. We also need to assess the number of people from Maharashtra requiring transport to their home districts. The buses need to be arranged on the basis of the numbers. MSRTC has a large fleet but more buses will be needed considering the need to maintain social distancing,” Parab added. Babasaheb Khadekar, president of Pune luxury bus association, said members were ready to provide their buses. “If the state government wishes, we can provide our buses but we need to be paid for the service. There are close to 40,000 private luxury buses in the state and, along with MSRTC buses, they can transport the workers to their destination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-pvt-buses-to-help-move-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75482159.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 1, 2020||India||SC hears plea on estranged parents||NEW DELHI: In India, courts mostly award custody of minor children to mothers while granting visitation and vocational rights to fathers in a soured marriage. A PIL in the Supreme Court on Thursday sought resolution of the difficulty faced by the parent who has not got custody of children. Petitioner V Srinivas Rao requested a bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay K Kaul and B R Gavai to lay down guidelines for many parents who are unable to meet and interact with their children because of the lockdown. The bench, which was hearing the PIL through video-conferencing in a virtual courtroom, told the petitioner, “If you have visitation rights, we suggest that electronic contact instead of physical visits can be substituted in these times.” The bench said estranged couples could move the family court to work out a arrangement to permit virtual meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-hears-plea-on-estranged-parents/articleshow/75482619.cms||---
May 1, 2020||Chennai||Milder cases to be sent to ‘care centres’ in Chennai||CHENNAI: In about three weeks time, patients with ‘milder’ cases of Covid-19 will not be sent to the government hospitals for intensive care. Instead they would be sent to a facility at either Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet or any of the corporation-run schools converted into special ‘Covid care centres’. This was revealed by corporation commissioner G Prakash and is on the lines of the advice given by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). By doing this, all asymptomatic cases which are not severe can be under medical supervision while doctors and paramedical staff can focus on the other patients. This stems from the fact that 98% of all Covid-19 positive in the city are asymptomatic, as revealed by Prakash in a press meet on Thursday. Data shows that about 75% of the positive patients in Chennai are not senior citizens or even in the 50-60 risky age bracket. They are below 50. In fact, 55% are below 40, data released by the corporation shows. “22,000 beds will be readied as Covid care centres. We are in the process of converting rooms in GCC schools as well as other schools and colleges, slum clearance board buildings. It will be done in 2-3 weeks,” he said on Wednesday. Dr V Sabanayagam, a senior intensivist at MGM Healthcare, said it was a correct decision. “Majority of patients, around 85%, have only mild symptoms like flu. They need to be only in a quarantined facility to avoid infecting others,” he said. The remaining 15% are the ones who need to be monitored closely by doctors and require medical set-up like ventilators, in case they face hypoxia, a condition of low oxygen availability, Sabanayagam said. Former city health officer Dr P Kuganatham also concurred stating that hospitals need not be flooded with asymptomatic cases. “But they should be quarantined near government hospitals so that they can be rushed in case there is any deterioration,” he said. Meanwhile, the corporation sent a letter to the collector two days ago requesting him to take over private and government school buildings for Covid related work by May 2. Sources said this was for setting up Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/milder-cases-to-be-sent-to-care-centres-in-chennai/articleshow/75482628.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
