May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru parents get creative to explain the pandemic to their kids||Twenty three times an hour. That's how often the average adult touches his/her face. One of the tasks of the face mask we are relying on during the Coronavirus pandemic, is to eliminate this impulse as far as possible. So, if it takes a mask to get an adult to stop touching his/her face, what does it take to get kids to follow this, social distancing and safety protocols? "Initially, it was difficult to explain to my eight-year-old daughter not to touch anything at the supermarket. We tried to explain the seriousness, although we are not talking about it the entire day," recalls Anushree Verma, principal analyst at a research and advisory company. Surbhi Gupta, mother of five-year-old Ivaan, agrees and adds, "It is tough to get kids to understand that they should not touch things while going outside for a walk or using the elevator, because there's always a series of questions after that." Art and songs to talk about the coronavirusThe answer, is to go about the conversation creatively, to ensure that the child does not get anxious. Surbhi made Ivaan draw the virus and then explained the precautions and other measures one needs to take. ENT surgeon Dr Jagdish Chaturvedi has resorted to songs and comedy to achieve this. "My son now understands how the virus spreads, that one needs to wear a mask while going outside, cough/sneeze into ones elbow and wash hands for 20 seconds, etc.," he shares. Using the right sources of informationEqually important is ensuring that children are not misinformed. To this end, Sumedha is getting her kids to read the newspaper. "It is a credible source of information and they need to know about these things and not fall prey to misinformation," she says. And to help children understand the importance of the lockdown, which iss keeping them away from their school and friends, parents like Surbhi and Anushree have been getting them to watch the prime minister's speeches. "I encourage my daughter to watch the PM’s speeches whenever he comes on TV. It helps her understand the seriousness," Anushree shares. Common questions children ask and how to tackle them 1- Will this virus kill us all? 1. No, but this is a virus for which we don’t have a vaccine or cure yet, which is why it has resulted in a large number of people dying. Doctors say we should be strong, eat well and exercise to avoid getting infected. We should also follow guidelines to stay safe. 2 - When can we play in the park again? As soon as authorities say it is safe to do so. 3. Why do I need to keep washing my hands? Washing hands for 20 seconds with soap lather will kill any viruses that we may have accidentally picked up. 4. Why can't doctors make medicines and kill the virus? Doctors are working very hard to find a cure. Bu this is a new type of virus unknown to anyone, so it takes time to study its nature and find a cure. Till then, we must avoid getting infected. (Source: Dr Sulata Shenoy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-parents-get-creative-to-explain-the-pandemic-to-their-kids/articleshow/75496683.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
May 2, 2020||Business||Get ready for hefty cut in fuel prices as lockdown curbs ease gradually||NEW DELHI: Get ready for a hefty cut in fuel prices as part of a larger government plan to put money in people’s pocket, reduce inflation, freight and input costs for farmers as the country eases lockdown curbs with the aim of gradually re-starting economic activity. Sources familiar with the discussion in the government said the price cut could be as much as Rs 5-10 per litre when it comes within a “few days”, but did not specify whether petrol or diesel will see the most reduction. Others said the reduction will be “balanced”, or substantial but less than the amount quoted. The general opinion is that the time has come for the retailers to pass on the benefit of low crude and product prices. The argument is that a hefty price cut will boost consumer sentiment and industrial activity wherever they are allowed to resume. Besides, cheaper freight will help keep consumer prices calm and lower input cost of farmers when farm activities are expected to pick up. Technically, state-run oil companies are free to decide pump prices. Though that has generally been the norm, the government informally indicates the direction they need to take under unusual circumstances arising from high oil prices – when they are asked to hold pump prices – or at present when they have been nudged to pass on the benefit. The broad contours of the plan indicate the oil companies will pass on their margins accruing from the fall in benchmark rates, recently pegged at Rs 13 per litre. The retailers had revised prices last by reducing prices by a few paise on March 15, a day after the government jacked up excise by Rs 3 per litre with the aim of tapping Rs 39,000 crore annually from fuel sales as prices began falling. Since that price revision, the average cost of crude bought by state-run refiners has dropped 32% during this period from $30.59 a barrel on March 16, a day after the prices were revised, to $20.66 at present but pump prices have remained unchanged. Several states have exploited the situation by jacking up VAT by up to Rs 5 per litre with the aim of making up for revenue shortfall once sales pick up as lockdown curbs are eased. Sales have fallen by up to 60% as the lockdown restricted vehicular movement and shuttered businesses. Industry executives said pump prices are benchmarked to international prices of products and not crude. “The crude and product markets are witnessing unprecedented situation. Crude and products have different dynamics. But this time even gasoline (petrol) and HSD (diesel) benchmarks are moving differently, though both are lower than crude. Pump prices cannot be tuned according to these unrealistic prices,” a senior executive told TOI, adding the “(price) cut has to be balanced whenever it happens.” The reservations over passing on the benefits are understandable as the refiners are staring at an inventory loss of Rs 25,000 crore in a topsy-turvy oil market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/get-ready-for-hefty-cut-in-fuel-prices-as-lockdown-curbs-ease-gradually/articleshow/75497849.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 2, 2020||Business||Oil crash cuts LPG rates, erases govt’s subsidy bill||NEW DELHI: The crash in international oil and petroleum products prices on Friday erased government subsidy on domestic LPG refills and brought down the price of each cylinder between 22% and 25%, depending upon state taxes, bringing relief to consumers as well as the government as they cope with the coronavirus pandemic. This is the third consecutive monthly reduction in LPG prices prompted by declining international rates. The market and subsidised prices of a 14.2-kg cylinder are now the same. The price equilibrium has also been hastened by the government’s move in 2019 to quietly raise the price of a subsidised cylinder by Rs 35.55 in five months between October-November 2019 and March this year. As a result, the government will not have to transfer any subsidy into the bank account of consumers in the four metros who book cooking gas refills. In other regions or areas, the subsidy will be only Rs 4-5 due to higher delivery charges or local tax, sources told TOI. In Delhi, the benchmark market, state-run fuel retailers slashed the price by Rs 162.50, or 22%, to Rs 581.50. Due to variations in state taxes and other charges, Chennai will see the highest reduction of Rs 192 per cylinder, or 25%; followed by Kolkata at Rs 190, or 24%; and Mumbai Rs 135, or 18%. This is an indication of the gains India stands to make from the crash in crude and refined products prices. The savings will enable the government to spend on welfare schemes for the needy, such as providing three free cylinders to the 8 crore poor households enrolled in the Ujjwala LPG plan. The budget had allotted Rs 37,256.21 crore for LPG subsidy in 2020-21, 9% more than Rs 34,085.86 crore revised estimate for 2019-20. All consumers have to pay the market price of a cylinder upfront. The government transfers the subsidy directly into the account of eligible consumers, which will not be needed this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hefty-cut-in-lpg-prices-erases-govt-subsidy-in-metros/articleshow/75498158.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 2, 2020||Pune||Heavy rain lashes Pune||PUNE: A huge traffic sign gantry billboard near Sancheti hospital on the Ganeshkhind road and a cell phone service tower atop a building in Mangalwar Peth came crashing down as heavy rains accompanied by strong winds and thunder lashed Pune for more than 30 minutes on Friday evening. Elsewhere, the fire brigade received at least 60 calls relating to huge trees getting uprooted at various locations across the city. No one was reported injured in either the crash of the two structures or the trees, fire brigade officials said. Friday's was the second day in succession when Pune city recorded thundershower and rain activity. The India Meteorological Department's (IMD) observatory at Shivajinagar, which covers most parts of the city barring the eastern fringes, recorded 19.7mm rain within a matter of 30 minutes. However, the observatory at Lohegaon, which covers the eastern fringes, recorded only 0.4mm rain while there was no measureable rainfall in Pashan, the third observatory. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD's weather forecast division, told TOI, "The rainfall activity is due to the moisture incursion over the state and adjoining region caused by a trough line that passes through th Madhya Mahrashtra, which includes Pune." He said, "The city will witness similar weather condition on Saturday too with thunder activity and gusty winds at 36kmph speed during afternoon hours." The incident on the Ganeshkhind road brought back memories of the October 2018 crash of a heavy metal hoarding frame at Shahir Amar Shaikh chowk in Mangalwar Peth in which four persons were killed. "Due to the ongoing lockdown and curfew for containing spread of the Covid-19 contagion, there was'nt any traffic on the otherwise busy Ganeshkhind road," an officer from the Shivajinagar police said. The spot where the billboard came crashing down is particularly very busy as it leads vehicles into the grade separator near Sancheti hospital. Fire brigade and civic officials rushed to the spot to initiate work for clearing the road which was completely blocked by the fallen structure. V G Kulkarni, head of Pune Municipal Corporation's (PMC) road department, told TOI, "The sky sign department has been looking after these gantry billboards. Our officials and their counterparts from the sky sign department are removing the fallen structure to clear the road." Maheshkumar Doiphode, the head of PMC's sky sign department, said, "The gantry billboard was old. It was built years ago on a build, operate and transfer basis." A video of a cell phone tower crashing down from atop a building in Mangalwar Peth went viral soon after the rains subsided. Officials said, the winds were so strong that the tower could not sustain and tilted to a side before crashing down. Meanwhile, the Pune fire brigade received relating to huge trees getting uprooted at locations including in front of Pune police commissioner's office, near Shivajinagar district court and the Yerawada central prison, among others. A huge banyan tree fell in front of the prison. "Usually, relatives of the jail inmates stand under this tree during the visit to the jail, but due to lockdown there was nobody today and fortunately no one was injured," an officer from Yerawada police told TOI. Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer of the Pune fire brigade told TOI, "Our control room received at least 60 calls of trees uprooting from all over the city. A huge had fallen at the entrance of the Pune police commissioner's office. We also sent our teams to Somwar Peth police colony where three incidents of tree falling have been reported," Ranpise said. Another officer said, "There were reports of trees falling in Katraj, Kothrud, Warje and Sinhagad Road. We have sent teams at all these spots." Meanwhile, the policemen maintaining vigil at various check points, had tough time. Due to gusty winds, their temporary shelters were completely damaged. "We have immediately made alternate arrangements for them," senior inspector Ashok Kadam said. ( With inputs by Prasad Kulkarni & Sandip Dighe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-rain-lashes-pune/articleshow/75498337.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: VCET develops low-cost respiratory support system||MANGALURU: Technical institutes in this coastal district are upping their game to come up with local solutions to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of these solutions have come in the form of face shields, 3D printed splitters for ventilators, lab-developed sanitisers and decontamination chambers using low technology and refrigeration. Vivekananda College of Engineering and Technology, Puttur, which has developed a low-cost respiratory support system, is joining this trend. Envisioned by Radhakrishna Bhakta, correspondent of VCET, it was a collaborative effort between the departments of electronics and communication (E&C) engineering and mechanical engineering, and a team of doctors from the city hospital, Puttur, that saw this basic ventilator weighing 2kg, take shape. Built from scratch, using materials available in the lab, the teaching staff and doctors worked on the concept, and came up with the machine in 10 days, said Bhakta. Shrikanth Rao, HoD of E&C engineering, said apart from ambu bag and locally procured acrylic material for fabrication, components available in the IoT lab were used. This respiratory support system is called Viveka Jeevavardhaka, and it takes care of the volume of oxygen that the patient needs, and the rate at which it must be pumped. “A person needs 6-10ml/kg of oxygen. This device controls the quantity and speed of oxygen supplied from the oxygen cylinder,” he said. The creators gave a demonstration of this device to deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, anaesthesiologist Jacintha D’Souza and Vijay Kumar, a physician at Wenlock Hospital, and representatives of DHO Ramachandra Bairy, and they were impressed. A similar device in the market is at least six to seven times costlier, Bhakta said. The support system can easily be mass produced, if the need arises, and works both on battery and AC power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-vcet-develops-low-cost-respiratory-support-system/articleshow/75498401.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 2, 2020||Pune||PPE crucial to protect frontline workers in fight against Covid-19: Medical experts and scientists||PUNE: Medical professionals and scientists have come forward to educate Indian citizens about the essential plastic items to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 virus, while ensuring their safe disposal and recycling/treatment afterwards. KK Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association and president of Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania said, “To protect the medical workers from Covid-19 infection, especially in a hospital setting, we need protective gear which are made from an impermeable and non-porous material, such as plastics. Hence, the currently used masks, gloves, protective shield for eyes/face, head and shoe cover, apron etc. are made from plastics. Impermeable material stops virus containing droplets from touching the skin and the virus stays on the outer surface of the protective gear. It is also essential that healthcare workers change their personal protective equipment in every 8 hours, and regularly decontaminate the hospital. Currently, 40 lakh health workers are fighting against the Covid-19. We need 20-25 lakh protective equipment every day to protect the workers from the infection.” Ashok K Agarwal, president– Indian Association for Hospital Waste Management and former Dean, IIHMR, New Delhi said, “Improper handling and disposal of medical waste can put healthcare workers at a higher risk of infection. All biomedical waste needs to be disposed in colour-coded categories - yellow, red, white and blue – as per the guidelines stipulated in the Biomedical Waste Management Rules 2016 and by the Centre of Pollution Control Board. These guidelines must be followed studiously to contain the Covid-19 infection. The government should ensure the availability of plastic garbage/disposal bags in hospitals, quarantined and general households, so the waste can be collected and treated (medical waste) or recycled (general waste).” Vijay Habbu, adjunct professor from Institute of Chemical Technology said, “The protective equipments such as masks, gloves, PPEs and plastic bags/bottles used in delivering essentials such as grains, oil, water etc. must not be carelessly thrown away. They must be properly disposed so they can be treated/recycled. The earth is healing itself; it is an ideal time to cut down on non-ecofriendly human practices such as littering and utilize this time to strengthen the plastic waste management ecosystem in our country. Scientifically, all types of plastic products/equipments are recyclable as every Indian citizen must know this fact. The responsibility to ensure proper disposal of waste and source segregation is on every Indian citizen. It will prevent the highly hazardous practice of waste dumping in landfills/waste bodies and help in keeping our earth clean and green.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ppe-crucial-to-protect-frontline-workers-in-fight-against-covid-19-medical-experts-and-scientists/articleshow/75498452.cms||Neha Madaan
May 2, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Bumper crops, no market leave onion farmers in tears||INDORE: Lockdown coinciding with harvesting season has adversely hit onion farmers, who are forced to sell produce below the cost of cultivation due to lack of market access and shutdown of mandis. Sitting on piles of stocks in a year of higher production, onion growers are gradually stepping towards deep financial crisis due to lack of buyers and increasing probability of crop decay owing to untimely rains in many pockets of the cultivating region. Farmers of Sanwer, Mhow, Depalpur and Indore claimed to have locked deals for as low as Rs 6 per kg to Rs 7 per kg at farm level this week. The cost of cultivation comes around Rs8-Rs 9 per kg, said farmers. Dilip Mukati, a farmer from Kanadia village in Indore having 500 bags (one bag weighs 60 kg) stocks said, “I am not able to sell a single bag till date. A few traders approaching at field are offering Rs 7-Rs 8 per kg, which is far below the cost of cultivation. Farmers do not have many options either to sell at whatever rates are available or see their crop decaying under the open sky.” Farmers claimed increasing presence of middlemen in the region amid lockdown period pocketing heavy profits and causing hefty losses to farmers. They said, most farmers lack storage facility at farms and lack of liquidity in hands is forcing many marginal farmers to sell below the cost of production. Another farmer Dinesh Patidar from Mhow tehsil said, “I have 2,000 bags of onion in stock. There is neither transport available, nor traders are able to reach us so that we get a fair price. Last year I got Rs 30-Rs 40 per kg in mandi but this year i have been offered Rs 6 per kg by two traders.” Farmers demanded that district administration should rope in farmers to supply onions to consumers so that role of middlemen can be curtailed from the supply chain. Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) is supplying onion and potato through traders in the city and also plan to supply vegetables. Farmer Arvind Singh Rathore from Muradpura village said, “We are happy if we get even Rs 10 per kg at farm levels as it will cover out cost. The supply chain should be monitored. Farmers are making loss and consumers are paying high charges then who is making the profit?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-bumper-crops-no-market-leave-onion-farmers-in-tears/articleshow/75498566.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 2, 2020||India||For 42 days, 65-year-old has slept in ambulance, says will go home ‘once Covid-19 war is over’||BAREILLY: This Ramzan is different for 65-year-old Babu Bharti. His wife, Bilkis, isn’’t preparing hot sewai for iftaar and his three children haven’t asked for new clothes. In fact, Bharti, who drives an ambulance in UP’s Sambhal district, hasn’t seen his family in 42 days. Since March 23, the driver has been doing rounds of containment zones and hotspots in the district and has now made the emergency vehicle his home. “I sleep in the ambulance, I shower when I find a tubewell in a field. Arrangements for my food are made by the district hospital where I work. I have decided to go home only once we win the battle against coronavirus,” Bharti told TOI on Friday. Dr Neeraj Sharma, in-charge of the rapid action team against Covid-19 in Sambhal, said Bharti was part of the team since the outbreak in the district. “We have brought nearly 1,100 suspected Covid-19 patients for tests at the district hospital and at least 700 of them were ferried by Bharti. His dedication is unparalleled. He is ready with his ambulance at any time of the day and night.” Bharti works on contract with the district hospital for Rs 17,000 a month. Sharma said Bharti was told to visit his home in Mandi Kishandas Sarai village, located 9km from the hospital, for Ramzan, but he refused to do so until the district is listed under the green zone. At present, Sambhal district is in the orange zone. Containment areas within red and orange zones have the most restrictions. Sambhal has recorded 19 confirmed cases and two deaths. Over 200 people have been put in quarantine shelters. “I talk to my family every morning to assure them that I’m safe. I can’t go back because I have a duty to do here. With infection rates peaking, ambulance services are required more than ever to carry suspected patients for testing,” said Bharti. He is also aware that older people might be at more risk due to Covid-19, but his age doesn’t scare him. “I take all precautions. I sanitise the ambulance every time I bring in a suspected patient and make sure the medical staff use sanitiser before boarding the vehicle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-42-days-65-year-old-has-slept-in-ambulance-says-will-go-home-once-covid-19-war-is-over/articleshow/75498662.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar authorities gear up to receive Kota students and other stranded persons returning on Jaipur-Patna special train||PATNA: Railways announced to run a “Shramik Special” train from Jaipur on Friday evening to Patna to bring students, migrant workers and other people from Rajasthan, primarily tens of hundred students from Bihar stuck in Kota due to the lockdown. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said, the special train will run non-stop from Jaipur station to Danapur railway station here. “The train is scheduled to depart at around 10pm on Friday and terminate at Danapur railway station at around 12noon on Saturday,” he said. He added: “Railways and state government are making all precautionary arrangements to receive them and conduct a comprehensive screening and medical checkup of them.” The DRM said, as per the Railway Board and MHA directives, railways will maintain social distancing norms inside the coaches. “In a coach of 72 berths, at least 54 passengers will be accommodated in a sleeper coach. Railways has also arranged sanitising process inside each coach prior to the departure of the special train from Jaipur,” he said. Bihar’s transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said around 100 city buses would be stationed at Danapur railway station, where Jaipur- Patna special train would reach. "The passengers will go through thermal screening at the railway station. From there, people would be taken to their respective district on buses. They would be put in quarantine centre for health check-ups. Besides, more than 200 buses would be there at several districts sharing border with other states," he said. He added: "Around 80 buses would be there at Gopalganj border and 60 at Kaimur. Some buses would be stationed at Gaya, Purnia and Nawada." Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19 told this newspaper on Friday that it is not possible to collect samples of all people coming from other states. "The principal secretary of health department asked the ICMR for the guidelines of testing of many people because we can't do rapid test," she said. "As a precautionary measure, the migrants, students and labourers would be put in quarantine centre of their native place. Quarantine centres would be made in each block accordingly, depending on the number of people. Then the health team would prioritise the migrants based on their symptoms. They would collect the samples of swabs of only symptomatic patients while remaining would have to complete 14-day quarantine period," Ragini said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-authorities-gear-up-to-receive-kota-students-and-other-stranded-persons-returning-on-jaipur-patna-special-train/articleshow/75498679.cms||Kumod Verma
May 2, 2020||India||ICMR cap too high? Calls to cut test price||With several states managing to bring down the cost of RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 to about half the Rs 4,500 ceiling fixed by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), the cries to revise the price have become louder. The fact that some private labs are offering package deals of 50 or more tests, including the Covid-19 test, for just Rs 5,000 has also buttressed the argument that the ICMR cap may be too generous. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts wereIn many states, as the number of Covid-19 tests being done in private labs has gone up, governments have announced the reimbursement rate they pay private labs for samples sent to them. It ranges from as little as Rs 2,000 in Gujarat to Rs 3,500 in Haryana. However, for those getting tested in hospitals and for those paying for the test themselves in a lab, the cost is Rs 4,500, the ceiling fixed by the ICMR. The Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and a similar scheme for the Delhi government employees also continue to observe the Rs 4,500 price ceiling. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThough the ICMR had appealed to private labs to test for free when announcing the price ceiling and giving approval to private labs to do Covid-19 tests, not surprisingly there haven’t been any takers for that appeal. Private labs argue that with salaries to pay and costs of kits and reagents to bear, they couldn’t possible do it for free. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageA leading player in the diagnostics market, Thyrocare, has been advertising packages such as Safe Surgery Profile, Safe Pregnancy Profile, Safe IVF Profile and Safe Dialysis Profile, each of which claims to do between 50 and 53 tests, including the RT-PCR test for Covid-19, for just Rs 4,999. Interestingly, during the debate on pricing when labs were criticised for charging the full ceiling price, Thyrocare had put out detailed calculations in the public domain which showed that the actual cost of the RT-PCR test would be Rs 5,000. They claimed that even at Rs 4,500, they would not be covering the full cost of the doing the test. “If what Thyrocare says is true, how do they manage to do 51 tests including RT-PCR Covid-test for Rs 4,999? Are they saying that the cost of 50 tests is just Rs 500?” asked Dr Rohit Jain of Pathologists Society. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageWhat will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“These 50 tests alone would cost Rs 1,500-2,000 according to several pre-surgery packages advertised by various labs. This is a clear indication that the RT-PCR test does not cost even Rs 4,500 as claimed by these labs. It probably costs around Rs 2,500 or less, which is the reimbursement rate fixed by some state governments and even at that rate labs make profits,” pointed out Dr Jain. The fact that labs are willing to do the tests at the rates fixed by state governments, some as low as Rs 2,000, suggests his reasoning is sound. “The reimbursement rates fixed by states demonstrate that the ICMR price cap is significantly inflated,” said Malini Aisola of All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN). AIDAN has repeatedly demanded that government ensure free testing for everyone by reimbursing private labs based on a rational assessment of costs. “A majority of people require testing on the directions of government bodies, employers or as a prerequisite to accessing healthcare services. For many the cost would be prohibitive and it is the government’s duty to provide free testing as it is a critical tool for containing the outbreak. Free testing would also dampen incentives to profit by private labs and more appropriate use of test kits, which are in limited supply,” said Aisola. What states are paying pvt labs Gujarat — Rs 2,000 Karnataka — Rs 2,250 Tamil Nadu — Rs 2,500 Haryana — Rs 3,500 Mumbai (BMC) — Rs 3,500 Delhi — Rs 3,500 (if samples sent by govt, Rs 4,500 if lab collects sample)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-cap-too-high-calls-to-cut-test-price/articleshow/75498708.cms||Rema Nagarajan
May 2, 2020||Ranchi||Two fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, state tally reaches 113||RANCHI: Two persons from Ranchi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking Jharkhand’s tally to 113. Of these, 91 are active case, while two patients have died and 20 have recovered. Meanwhile, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS)’s microbiology department — which operates the largest coronavirus testing lab in the state — was shut down for four days on Thursday night, hours after a lab technician tested positive for the virus. Talking to TOI, RIMS director Dr D K Singh said, “The laboratory has been sealed for four days on directions from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On the two new case, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “A 26-year-old woman from Dipatoli locality and a 27-year-old male from the Hindpiri containment zone tested positive on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-state-tally-reaches-113/articleshow/75498725.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 2, 2020||India||May 1 mayhem: Record 2,333 coronavirus cases in a day, over 1,000 in Maharashtra alone||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic in India grew by the highest number yet on Friday when as many as 2,333 cases were detected across the country, led by an explosion of infections in Maharashtra, which reported a record 1,003 new cases in a single day with Mumbai alone registering 741. The number of cases reported on Friday was 27% higher than the previous single-day peak of 1,840, recorded on Tuesday, and represented a 6.7% growth in infections in a day. The country now has recorded 37,200 Covid cases and 1,222 deaths, with the toll rising by 68 on Friday, according to reports from states. Tamil Nadu too saw its highest rise in cases, with 203 added on Friday, while Gujarat (326) and Delhi (223) continued to report high numbers. Maharashtra recorded the maximum 26 Covid-related deaths on Friday, taking its total toll to 485, followed by Gujarat (22), Madhya Pradesh (8) and Rajasthan (4). Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh recorded two Covid-19 deaths each while one death each was reported from Tamil Nadu and Bihar. On the brighter side, the number of persons who have recovered from the disease till date reached 9,709 which is 26% of all positive cases. The 1,008 new coronavirus cases reported on Friday was a massive leap for Maharashtra, by far the worst-affected state. Its previous single-day high was 811, of which Mumbai accounted for 602, recorded in April 25. Gujarat remains second most affected state. It recorded 22 fresh deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state’s total death toll to 236. Ahmedabad continued to reel under the unabated attack of coronavirus as it recorded 16 or 73% of the 22 deaths. It was also the third consecutive day where state tally of positive cases was above 300. Gujarat’s total count of Covid-19 cases is 4721. Delhi, the third worst-hit state, added 223 cases and two deaths to its due to Covid count. All 11 districts in the capital have been declared red zones. In Tamil Nadu, a 98-year-old man, who was under treatment at a government hospital in the state capital, died due to Covid-19, taking the virus’ toll in the state to 28. Four persons died due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan taking the total toll to 62. As many as 82 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Rajasthan now has 2666 positive cases of the disease. Bihar recorded 41 new Covid-19 cases, taking total number of such cases in the state to 466 and one more death due to the disease. Two persons from Ranchi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking Jharkhand’s tally to 113. Of these, 91 are active case, while two patients have died and 20 have recovered. Uttar Pradesh recorded its youngest coronavirus death on Friday when a 15-year-old girl succumbed to the infection. Her death took the state’s toll to 43. With 116 new cases, UP tally touched 2,328 on Friday. In J&K, the government said, 25 new positive cases were recorded, taking the total tally of positive cases in the Union territory to 639.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/may-1-mayhem-record-2333-cases-in-a-day-over-1000-in-maharashtra-alone/articleshow/75498993.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||HC stays counseling for admission in post-graduate medical courses in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed the counseling process for admission in post-graduate medical courses (MD/MS courses) in Haryana. The state authorities have also been asked to submit their replies on the issue by May 6. The counseling for admission into MD/MS courses in medical colleges of Haryana was scheduled to be held on May 4. The division bench comprising Justice R K Jain and Justice Jaswant Singh of the HC has passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Vikram Pal and others. Petitioners have challenged the notification dated April 15, 2020 issued with respect to procedure for admission to MD/MS courses wherein the reservation quota for EWS, BCA, BCB and SC categories went to the extent of 87%. Counsel for the petitioners, advocate Ashwani Talwar argued before the bench that the reservation in any case could not go beyond 50% and in this view of the matter, notification issued by Haryana government could not withstand the scrutiny of law. During the hearing of the case, the counsel for Haryana government argued that 25% seats for institutional preference and 5% seats for the physically handicapped as well as 10% for the EWS category shall fall in the horizontal reservation and thereby the vertical reservation shall not exceed the cap of 50%. However, the replies filed by the authorities that are conducting counselling for admission had not substantiated the arguments raised by the state’s counsel. Counsel for the petitioner informed the HC that out of the total 156 seats, the open category seats have been reduced to 31 only. “At this stage, we are persuaded to accept the plea raised by the counsel for the petitioners for the issuance of notice to the respondents enabling them to file a detailed reply, if so advised, as the earlier short replies are inadequate. Matter fixed for May 6 for further hearing,” observed the HC while making it clear that the process of counseling, which was scheduled for May 4-5, shall be kept in abeyance till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stays-counseling-for-admission-in-post-graduate-medical-courses-in-haryana/articleshow/75498922.cms||Ajay Sura
May 2, 2020||India||‘Secret’ midnight train from Hyderabad puts migrant return on track||HYDERABAD/RANCHI: In a hush-hush midnight exercise meant to avoid a Bandra-like situation, 1,225 migrant workers from Jharkhand were picked up from a camp near IIT-Hyderabad on Thursday and put on a train home at the crack of dawn on Friday, kick-starting what turned out to be a coordinated central initiative to ferry batches of stranded people back to their native places by point-to-point "Shramik Special" trains. Other than Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, his Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao, DGP Mahender Reddy and chief secretary Somesh Kumar, nobody seemed to have advance information about the first train that left for Hatia, 1400km from Hyderabad. Even the travellers didn't know they were going home by train until they reached Lingampalli station. The train left at 4.50am. The Union home ministry's announcement that the railways had been allowed to operate special trains on request from states came long after the first one had crossed into Maharashtra from the Telangana border. Sources said a team from Sangareddy rural police station had segregated the selected travellers from a pool of 2,500 migrant workers and herded them into 56 buses that took them to the station. They were all medically screened before being moved out. As the buses started leaving the camp at Kandi, most of the workers thought they were being taken to Jharkhand by road. "We did not inform them about the train journey till they reached Lingampalli station. Our aim was to ensure that news about a special train didn't leak through social media. There are thousands of migrant workers in labour camps close to the station," an intelligence official said. The route was also kept confidential to ensure that groups of migrant workers did not try to stop the train or board it en route. The Telangana government had paid over Rs 5 lakh to the railways for the special train to Hatia. In Ranchi, DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said the district administration would receive the migrant workers and transport them to their homes after medical screening and other procedures. "We have deployed health department teams who will conduct thermal scanning before the returnees walk out of the station premises. They will be provided dinner before their onward journey by road." Based on the screening, the workers will be advised isolation at home or shifted to institutional quarantine. "The medical examination will be done at Paras Hospital in the HEC area," Ray said. The district administration has deployed 40 magistrates to accompany the buses that will ferry the returnees to various districts with police escort. Another trainload of migrants is headed to Bhopal from Nashik in Maharashtra. MP’s first Shramik Special will chug into Habibganj station on Saturday morning, carrying 341 labourers. The administration has said nobody except a designated team will be allowed to receive them at the station. Bhopal DRM Uday Borwanker said the six-coach train was expected at Habibganj around 6.30am. Around 55 people are travelling in each coach, which normally seats 72, to ensure social distancing. None of the travellers knew until noon on Friday that they would be evacuated. The train timing was kept a secret until the last moment. In Kerala, a third special train carrying 1,140 "guest workers" from Odisha was to leave Aluva railway station for Bhubaneswar late on Friday. All of them had registered with the administration for the journey back home. While the passengers were required to pay the specified fare, the administration provided free drinking water, biscuits, fruit and bread for the non-stop journey. The train is expected in Bhubaneswar by midnight on May 2. According to the Kerala labour department, around 3.61 lakh "guest workers" are currently residing in 20,826 camps in the state. Three to four other special trains are likely to operate from Ernakulam on Saturday, carrying people back to north India and the northeast. The fourth special train on Friday left Jaipur for Patna with students, migrant workers and other people stuck in Rajasthan. Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar said the special train would run non-stop to arrive at its destination around noon on Saturday. Bihar transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said around 100 buses would be stationed at Danapur railway station to take the passengers to their hometowns and villages after medical screening. Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19, told TOI on Friday that it was not possible to collect samples of all people returning from various states. "The principal secretary of the health department has asked ICMR to issue separate guidelines because we can't do rapid tests," she said. For Bihar, the sheer number of migrant workers waiting to return – around 27 lakh – makes the screening exercise a daunting task. In Odisha, chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy said all arrangements had been made to screen and safely transport the first batch of people returning by train from Kerala. He said each state sending back people would conduct "pre-registration" of travellers to ensure there is no slip-up. "Stranded workers returning by train will be received at specific railway stations. They will be shifted to quarantine centres by government teams. We will then send them by bus to their respective destinations." Odisha has announced 11 entry points for those returning by road. Each traveller will be marked with indelible ink on the right hand. (With inputs from Ramendra Singh in Bhopal, Hemanta Pradhan in Bhubaneswar & Kumod Verma & Faryal Rumi in Patna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/secret-midnight-train-from-hyderabad-puts-migrant-return-on-track/articleshow/75499025.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 2, 2020||World||North Korea's Kim Jong-un appears in public amid health rumors||SEOUL: North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made his first public appearance in 20 days as he celebrated the completion of a fertilizer factory near Pyongyang, state media said Saturday, ending an absence that had triggered global rumours that he may be seriously ill. The North's official Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim attended the ceremony Friday in Sunchon with other senior officials, including his sister Kim Yo Jong, who many analysts predict would take over if her brother is suddenly unable to rule. The official Rodong Sinmun newspaper published several photos of Kim wearing black and smiling as he looked around the factory and cut a red ribbon, his sister looking from behind. Seemingly thousands of workers, many of them masked, stood in lines at the massive complex, releasing balloons into the air. The images gave no clear sign that Kim was in discomfort. He wasn't seen with a walking stick, like the one he used in 2014 when he was recovering from a presumed ankle surgery. However, one of the photos at the factory showed a green electric cart, which appeared similar to a vehicle he used in 2014. It was Kim's first public appearance since April 11, when he presided over a ruling Workers' Party meeting to discuss the coronavirus and reappoint his sister as an alternate member of the powerful decision-making Political Bureau of the party's Central Committee. That move confirmed her substantial role in the government. Speculation about his health swirled after he missed the April 15 birthday celebration for his late grandfather Kim Il Sung, the country's most important holiday, for the first time since taking power in 2011. The possibility of high-level instability raised troubling questions about the future of the secretive, nuclear-armed state that has been steadily building an arsenal meant to threaten the U.S. mainland while diplomacy between Kim and President Donald Trump has stalled. Some experts say South Korea, as well as its regional neighbors and ally Washington, must begin preparing for the possible chaos that could come if Kim is sidelined by health problems or even dies. Worst-case scenarios include North Korean refugees flooding South Korea or China or military hard-liners letting loose nuclear weapons. “The world is largely unprepared for instability in North Korea,” said Leif-Eric Easley, a professor at Ewha University in Seoul. Washington, Seoul and Tokyo need tighter coordination on contingency plans while international organizations need more resources and less controversy over the role of China.” Following an unusually provocative run in missile and nuclear tests in 2017, Kim used the Winter Olympics in South Korea to initiate negotiations with Washington and Seoul in 2018. That led to a surprising series of summits, including three between Kim and Trump. But negotiations have faltered in past months over disagreements in exchanging sanctions relief and disarmament steps, which raised doubts about whether Kim would ever fully deal away an arsenal he likely sees as his strongest guarantee of survival. Kim entered 2020 vowing to build up his nuclear stockpile and defeat sanctions through economic “self-reliance.” Some experts say the North's self-imposed lockdown amid the coronavirus crisis could potentially hamper his ability to mobilize people for labor. The KCNA said workers at the fertilizer factory broke into “thunderous cheers” for Kim, who it said is guiding the nation in a struggle to build a self-reliant economy in the face of “head wind” by “hostile forces." The report didn't mention any direct comment toward Washington or Seoul. Speaking to reporters at the White House, Trump declined to comment about Kim's reappearance but said he would “have something to say about it at the appropriate time.” State media reported Kim was carrying out routine activities outside public view, such as sending greetings to the leaders of Syria, Cuba and South Africa and expressing gratitude to workers building tourist facilities in the coastal town of Wonsan, where some speculated he was staying. South Korea's government, which has a mixed record of tracking Pyongyang's ruling elite, repeatedly downplayed speculation that Kim, believed to be 36, was in poor health following surgery. The office of President Moon Jae-in said it detected no unusual signs in North Korea or any emergency reaction by its ruling party, military and cabinet. Seoul said it believed Kim was still managing state affairs but staying at an unspecified location outside Pyongyang. It wasn't immediately clear what caused Kim's absence in past weeks. In 2014, Kim vanished from the public eye for nearly six weeks and then reappeared with a cane. South Korea's spy agency said he had a cyst removed from his ankle. Analysts say his health could become an increasing factor in years ahead: he's overweight, smokes and drinks, and has a family history of heart issues. If he's suddenly unable to rule, some analysts said his sister would be installed as leader to continue Pyongyang's heredity dynasty that began after World War II. But others question whether core members of North Korea's elite, mostly men in their 60s or 70s, would find it hard to accept a young and untested female leader who lacks military credentials. Some predict a collective leadership or violent power struggles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/north-koreas-kim-jong-un-appears-in-public-amid-health-rumors/articleshow/75499061.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||1,300 labourers returned to Sirsa, quarantined in Dera Beas||CHANDIGARH: As many as 1,300 labourers stranded at Jaisalmer district of Rajsthan reached Sirsa on Friday. These people included men women and children, who had been stranded there for over one month. They were brought in 40 buses provided by Rajasthan Road Transport Corporation from Hanumangarh depot. The buses had started arriving Sikanderpur dera of Radha Soami Satsang and have been stationed there. Two senior medical officers and officers of civil and police administration were deployed on the dera to supervise the arrangements. Notably, Dabwali MLA Amit Sihag had taken up the issue of stranded labourers with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Meanwhile, MHA too had given ruling about shifting of stranded laborers, students and families and their facilitation. Rajsthan had provided buses from Hanumangarh depot. All the laborers were sanitized before boarding the bus," said Sihag. According to information, health officials started the thermal scanning of the labourers. And the entire operations were carried out in the supervision of deputy commissioneer R S Birdhan and civil surgeon Surender Nain. Sources informed that once preliminary scanning was over, the laborers will be subjected to random test during the period of quarantine. After scanning they could be given an option of home quarantine or facility quaraintine, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1300-labourers-returned-to-sirsa-quarantined-in-dera-beas/articleshow/75499036.cms||Manvir Saini
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Four IGs promoted as ADGP in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has issued orders for the promotion of four IPS officers with immediate effect. Among the officers who have been promoted from inspector general of police (IGP) to the post of additional director general of police (ADGP) include Dr. C.S. Rao has been posted as ADGP, SCB Gurugram,. Charu Bali has been posted as ADGP, CAW, Sandeep Khirwar has been posted as ADGP, Rohtak Range and Subhash Yadav has been posted as ADGP, SVB Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/four-igs-promoted-as-adgp-in-haryana/articleshow/75499086.cms||Manvir Saini
May 2, 2020||India||Five special trains ferrying stranded people, more to run in coming weeks||NEW DELHI: A day after the Centre said buses will be used to take migrant workers to their home states, the Indian Railways also started six ‘Shramik Special’ trains to transport workers, students and tourists following a go-ahead from the home ministry. With several states approaching the railways, the special trains will be a regular feature in the coming weeks. The trains will be able to facilitate movement of a larger number of people in less time than would have been the case if only buses were allowed. Hours after the first train left Lingampalli in Telangana, the home ministry issued revised guidelines permitting trains for inter-state transport of stranded people amid the lockdown. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts wereRailway ministry officials said a few more trains will be run from point-to-point in the next couple of days. “As MHA guidelines prescribe, we will run special trains only when we are approached by state governments. Several states are discussing with our zonal offices. We are ready to run more trains complying with the norms,” a railway ministry official said. Almost all trains that started on Friday had 24 coaches each and transported around 1,000-1,200 passengers. About 54 passengers are allowed in a sleeper coach in place of the normal provision to accommodate 72 passengers. “This is being done to maintain social distancing during the journey,” the official said. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Curbs extended for 2 weeks, with some easingTwo days before the scheduled end of the national lockdown, the Centre on Friday extended it by another two weeks, but with significant easing of curbs intended to reopen the country and restart economic activity even in the red zones, leaving only containment areas under strict restrictions.Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesIn some cases, coaches were earmarked by destinations on the route. For example, the train from Kota to Ranchi had coaches marked as Palamu, Ramgarh and Gumla. This was done to ensure only those passengers destined for a particular station were in the specified coach and deboarded according to schedule. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAs per MHA guidelines, the railways has designated nodal officers for coordinating with states. “These trains are being run only for nominated people identified and registered by the state governments. None should come to stations for getting a ticket. Bulk tickets are provided to the state and hence there is no sale of tickets for individuals. We will allow only those passengers who are transported by the state government,” the official said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageWhat will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsSo far as fare is concerned, the respective state governments will coordinate and pay the ticket price of a sleeper class and another Rs 50 per passenger. The fare includes complimentary meals and drinking water during the journey. Passengers nominated by state governments will be screened at departure points and allowed to proceed if found asymptomatic. On arrival, they will be assessed by local authorities and kept in home quarantine, unless they require institutional surveillance. While earlier, only buses were allowed to transport such people, transporting lakhs of stranded migrants by road and that too for long distance was almost impossible. Watch Lockdown 3.0: Eleven more 'Shramik Special' trains to ferry migrants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/five-special-trains-ferrying-stranded-people-more-to-run-in-coming-wks/articleshow/75499090.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 2, 2020||Madurai||MKU registrar resigns||Madurai: After a short stint of five months, Madurai Kamaraj University Registrar (in-charge), Dr Sankar Natesan resigned from his post on Friday. Dr Sankar, who is also professor and head of department of Genetic Engineering at MKU School of Biotechnology, said that he wanted to focus on scientific research and that there were no other reasons for his sudden resignation. “I spent five months performing all my duties as administrator but now I decided it is time to return my focus on research. This now allows me more time to be involved in research. Unfortunately, we couldn’t get a new permanent registrar within the time I served despite holding interviews. A new registrar (in-charge) will soon be appointed,” he said, speaking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-registrar-resigns/articleshow/75498150.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Business||E-tailers eye orange, green zones||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: E-commerce companies are looking to start servicing orders for both essentials and non-essentials in orange as well as green zones after the latest home ministry order. This, even as some players are seeking further clarity from the government after a flip-flop last month. Three industry sources said the ministry’s order seems to have finally paved the way for e-commerce to sell all goods, just like offline shops. Owing to previous weeks’ multiple clarifications from the government, the latest home ministry notification was reviewed by legal teams of e-tailers like Flipkart and Amazon India, people aware of the matter said. “We welcome the government’s decision to allow e-commerce in orange and green zones to serve people safely with products that they need and have not been able to access due to the lockdown,” a spokesperson of Amazon India told TOI. In red zones, e-commerce companies are only allowed to deliver essentials, which include grocery, hygiene products, and medicines. Amazon India said that e-commerce companies should be allowed to deliver other priority products in the red zone as well. A Flipkart spokesperson declined to comment. The new order comes as Amazon said it has seen the “biggest impact” of the virus outbreak in India among its international markets owing to the government allowing the sale of only essentials through e-commerce, its global CFO Brian Olsavsky. He was speaking during the January-March earnings call on Friday. However, Amazon’s global sales — led by home market, the US — hit a record high. Separately, data sourced last week from Marketplace Pulse, which tracks Amazon globally, showed overall sales were down by 80-90% on Amazon India compared to pre-lockdown days. The data further shows a sharp decline in sales when compared against the last festive season sales and Christmas. Amazon’s international business, which counts India, saw losses for the latest quarter growing over fourfold to almost $400 million compared to $90 million during the same quarter in the previous year. Both sales ($19 billion) and loss ($398 million) were down on a sequential basis when compared to the quarter ending December 2019, when it reported sales of close to $24 billion and loss of $617 million. Typically, grocery and other essential items contribute about 10% of overall sales for e-tailers here. In its April 20 edition, TOI reported, quoting estimates from Forrester that e-commerce growth in India could fall to zero after the government changed its stance of allowing the sale of non-essentials online. Even after the government’s green signal for e-commerce in green and orange zones, e-tailers might have to face a logistical challenge. Many warehouses and sellers of e-commerce companies are based in government-defined red zones in big cities. “If we can’t take goods from our warehouse in a red zone, how will one deliver it in other zones? This has to be looked at before e-commerce can open up practically,” an e-commerce executive said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-eye-orange-green-zones/articleshow/75497547.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Zooming in on thiru vi ka nagar||CHENNAI: Recording a high number of cases for three consecutive days, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar (Zone 6) overtook Royapuram (Zone 5) as the zone with the most Covid-19 positive cases. The two zones alone account for 475 positive cases of the 1082 (44%) in the city (at 6 pm, May 1) and if considered separate districts, have only Chennai above them in the state list. Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, comprising wards 64-78, has 259 cases, while Royapuram, which comprises wards 49-63, has 216 cases. About a week ago, the two zones with Tondiarpet (Zone 4) made up the red zone in the city, accounting for 57 % of the total cases On April 22, Thiru vi Ka Nagar zone had recorded only 42 cases, while Royapuram had registered 116 cases. So, what went wrong in the intervening period, when most areas in the zones were already under containment and the cases reported were mostly contacts from the initial cluster? "In Thiru Vi Ka Nagar zone, the emerging cluster is from a prayer meeting in which two infected sanitary workers had participated," said a Greater Chennai Corporation official. Since then, the number of cases began to spike in the zone. "This is also because it is around this time that we started testing more in the city. More samples were taken from containment areas," said the official. In the past four days alone, 165 positive cases were reported in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, so much so that officials were mooting a separate two-week lockdown in ward 77- Pulianthope, which had accounted for the maximum number of cases within the zone, if the lockdown were to end on May 3, as announced. Now, with the Union government extending the lockdown until May 17 and Chennai falling under red zone, officials will focus on extra measures. "More than half of the cases in the zone are from Pulianthope and Choolai. Residents have not been following physical distancing despite awareness campaigns and requests by authorities," said an official with Zone 6. The two largest TNSCB (Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board) tenement colonies of Zone 6 are in Pulianthope. While the ward itself has a population of 60,000, according to corporation data, more than 10,000 are housed in the two tenement colonies. According to health department officials, four workers have already tested positive in zone 6, apart from the sanitary workers residing in the area. Like in Royapuram zone, these areas too are densely populated with narrow staircases and pathways in buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/zooming-in-on-thiru-vi-ka-nagar/articleshow/75498144.cms||Srikkanth D
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Elderly couple faces ordeal over ‘illegal house’||BELAGAVI: An elderly couple at Ramdurg taluk of Belagavi district had the shock of their lives on Friday morning, after seeing their house locked by the municipal officers. Though the officers claimed that the house was sealed because “the couple had occupied it illegally”, the latter countered it and got the key back. According to Basappa Ravale, 64, and Parvatamma, 60, the house was allotted to them under Vajpayee Nagar Vasati Yojana in 2018. The drama unfolded after the couple returned from market, and saw the house locked. After checking with their neighbours, they came to know municipal officials had sealed their house. When the officials arrived at the spot to evict the couple, the latter said they cannot go anywhere else “as this is our only shelter”. They had moved in here after their house was washed away in floods last year. But when their requests went unheeded, the couple sat on a dharna in front of the house. This prompted Ramdurg tahsildar Girish Savadi to visit the couple and also give them the house key. Tahsildar Savadi said though the house was allotted to two families, the documents were not yet given. “The couple has been living here since many months. Because of lockdown, we are allowing them to stay here now. Our officials should not have acted in haste. We will sort out the land issue later,” he added. Basappa told TOI: “We both are daily-wage workers, and our children have been stranded in Hubballi and Bengaluru due to lockdown.” He added that the house was granted to them under a government scheme in 2018, and they moved in here after losing their shelter in August. Parvatamma sought to know why the government was hell-bent to evict them during lockdown. “Where shall we go if we are evicted?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/elderly-couple-faces-ordeal-over-illegal-house/articleshow/75496060.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||College students apprehensive but adapt to new norm of online classes||Madurai: Amid lockdown, most colleges across the district have adapted either online classes or provision of e-resources to ensure students complete their syllabus for and are ready for their exams when colleges reopen. However, colleges are facing hurdles adapting and there are also students who are unable to afford to access smartphones or computers. For college students studying undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses, online classes have already become an alternative way of learning until colleges reopen in September. College professors said that it is the only way to keep up and complete students’ end semester portions if they are to hold the end semester exams as soon as colleges reopen. Many colleges, while primarily sharing information by having a WhatsApp group then set up online classes via video conferencing. “We were asked by our principal to mainly complete the portions for the last semester. We are holding only minimal number of such classes per week,” said Rajesh M, assistant professor, Zoology, The American College. Students are motivated to attend all online classes either because of curiosity or fear of missing out. Colleges are also sharing learning material and conducting tests and assignments via online apps. “A portal was created in the college website for the students with materials in print, video, power points and audiotapes of lectures. The students of all the majors and all the years are given regular lectures, assignments and tests, of different formats, through online applications and websites,” said Dr A Jawahar, principal of NMSS Vellaichamy Nadar College. Almost all colleges have already uploaded all study material online so students can refer to it anytime. However, at the same time, students feel it is not the same as a classroom. “It is of course a great way to learn because we don’t want to waste any time. But, the feeling of a classroom is unique when we sit with friends. In online classes, we don’t feel like putting in our best efforts. But it is a start, we may get used to it soon,” said Abinaya S, a second year UG student. What also remains a concern for colleges about why not to go for full-fledged online classes is because some students also don’t have access to quality smartphones, computers or laptops to properly learn online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/college-students-apprehensive-but-adapt-to-new-norm-of-online-classes/articleshow/75498141.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Tiger, elephants wreak havoc in south Kodagu villages||MADIKERI: The efforts of forest department to catch a tiger which has killed several cows in Nadikeri and surrounding villages in south Kodagu have failed. On Wednesday, a search operation for the tiger was conducted for the fourth consecutive day in the forests with the help of tuskers. However, a bunch of honey bees started attacking the elephants and mahouts and the jumbos started running back. Finally, the forest team has to return empty-handed. DFO Shivashankar and ACF Shripathi led the forest team. Meanwhile, in Hanchikadu, Emmegundi, Gowrikadu, Injingere and Toopanahalli villages in the limits of Virajpet sub-range, wild elephants have wreaked havoc in coffee estates. Eight elephants, a tusker and two baby elephants are camping in one of the coffee estates. On Wednesday, a team of foresters conducted a chasing operation, but in vain. Instead of chasing the wild elephants, the elephants started chasing the foresters. When the foresters burst crackers, the annoyed wild jumbos turned back and chased the foresters. Finally, the 10-member forest team called back the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-elephants-wreak-havoc-in-south-kodagu-villages/articleshow/75496567.cms||G RAJENDRA
May 2, 2020||Business||Yields on AT1 bonds rise on dumping by mutual funds||MUMBAI: Yields on some additional tier-1 (AT1) — or quasi-equity — bonds issued by nationalised banks and some non-bank papers have risen to over double the return on government bonds. A key reason for the increase is dumping of bonds by mutual funds at a loss in a bit to meet redemption pressures. According to trading data from the NSE, Bank of Baroda’s perpetual bond was last traded at a yield of 10.5%. When the bond was issued, it carried a coupon of 8.7%. Punjab National Bank’s 8.98% perpetual debt was traded at 12.65%. Punjab & Sind Bank is trading at 13%, and Axis Bank at 11.98%. Bonds issued by a double-A-rated NBFC were sold at 15%. One of the reasons for the rise in yields is that banks are the only institutions with liquidity, deploying nearly Rs 7 lakh crore with the RBI and in the short-term paper, and they are not using it. “Banks have an opportunity to earn a large spread,” said LIC Mutual Fund CEO Dinesh Pangtey. He added that the RBI has allowed banks to hold the bonds to maturity, they need not worry about mark-to-market provisions. According to fund managers, while bonds of some PSU undertakings represent an opportunity to generate a return, non-government bonds are perceived to be high risk. A drop in the capital adequacy ratio would result in loss of dividend and a sharp fall could result in even the principal being wiped out. This was demonstrated by the Yes Bank episode where several AT1 bond investors lost all their money. “The real risk spread between the debt and AT1 bonds is now emerging. Earlier in their quest for yield, investors were willing to pick up AT1 bonds at 100 basis points (1 percentage point) over the banks FD rates,” he said. The exceptions are the banks that are classified by the RBI as systemically important or ‘too-big-to-fail’ banks — SBI, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank. SBI’s perpetual bonds are yielding 9.2%. HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank’s perpetual bonds were both traded at 9.15%. “As far as any other bank is concerned, with AT1 bonds there will be risk-aversion,” said a fund manager. According to the stress test of banks conducted by the RBI in December 2019, if the gross non-performing assets ratio of 52 select scheduled commercial banks moves up to 15.6% from 9.4%, the system-level capital adequacy ratio will decline from 14.9% to 11.2% and tier-1 CRAR will decline from 12.8% to 9.2%. The impairment in the capital at the system level could thus be about 27.1%. PSBs were found to be severely impacted with the CRAR of 16 of the 19 PSBs likely to go down below 9% in case of such a shock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yields-on-at1-bonds-rise-on-dumping-by-mutual-funds/articleshow/75497586.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||KCF leads efforts to help stranded people in Gulf||Mangaluru: For the past month, hundreds of Kannadigas stranded across the Gulf, Malaysia and United Kingdom have been in severe distress. Forced to stay indoors, many them, most of whom are daily labourers, have been struggling to obtain even essential commodities. Among the organisations that have reached out to stranded people, the Karnataka Cultural Foundation (KCF) has been leading the efforts to ensure that the hapless people are supplied food kits and medicines in their respective countries. KCF, an organisation based in the Gulf region, receives calls on its helpline numbers. “Our volunteers have been reaching out to those who have called on our helplines. So far we have attended to more than 400 distress calls, and distributed food kits and medicines,” said president of the KCF’s Saudi Arabia unit Yousuf Saqafi Baithar, a native of Harekala in Mangaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kcf-leads-efforts-to-help-stranded-people-in-gulf/articleshow/75496003.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Doctor returns home to a grand reception||HUBBALLI: Dr Sachin Hosakatti, who is one of the doctors who have been treating Covid-19 patients at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital here, was given a rousing reception when he returned home at Chankyapuri Colony here on Friday. The homecoming was marked by applause and placards hailing his service by his neighbours, who waited for him while maintaining social distance. Dr Hosakatti, who treated patients during April 10-17, self-quarantined for a fortnight, during which time he did not meet even his family members. Sunil Nalavade, a resident of the area and the founder of Hubballi-e-city Group, said they are proud of Dr Hosakatti. “We are happy to have such a service-minded neighbour. He did not visit his home during his service at the Covid ward. He confined himself to treating patients at the isolation ward for two weeks, and this is remarkable,” he added. The video of Dr Hosakatti being received has gone viral on social media. In the video, Dr Hoskatti is seen thanking all doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others at KIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/doctor-returns-home-to-a-grand-reception/articleshow/75496396.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Control room set up at Assembly to help migrants||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh state assembly has set up a control room to bring back people of state stranded in other parts of the country in lockdown. The exercise was initiated on directives of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. Four officers have been deputed in the control room that will ensure safe return of people of state. The control room would ensure brining back people, be it common public or labourers. State government is already running a drive to bring back migrant labourers. Officials said the control room has been set up to help MLAs in bringing back people of their constituencies stranded in other states due to lockdown. The control room would also send back labourers of other states stranded in MP due to lockdown, officials added. On receiving call from any state, the assembly officials deputed in control room contact the assembly of the state concerned where people are stranded and ensure that the callers get pass to come back to the MP. Officials said they are sending labourers of Punjab struck in MP back. Similarly, a professor from Bhopal was struck in Uttarakhand. He informed the call centre after which Uttarakhand state assembly was contacted and e pass was given to him. Officials said the professor informed on Friday that he got the pass. The control room has also received calls from Telangana, Rajasthan, Haryana and other parts of country in past two days. The state government so far has brought back 40 thousand labourers stranded in different parts of the state due to corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/control-room-set-up-at-assembly-to-help-migrants/articleshow/75497467.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Hopes soar over downward spiral of cases in south TN||Madurai: The state might be seeing a steady surge in the Covid-19 cases of late, but the small numbers coming in from southern districts showed that there is still reason for hope in these difficult times of deadly pandemic. On Friday, the total number of cases in the southern districts climbed to 417, with Madurai reporting three new cases and Dindigul one. As the number showed a declining trend, Dindigul has moved to the orange zone. As per the trends in April, the counts of Covid-19 cases in most districts in the southern region are going down. All three new cases in Madurai are women including a house surgeon on duty at the Covid-19 isolation ward at the Government Rajaji Hospital. She is a native of Punalur in Kollam in Kerala. The second case was a 25-year-old pregnant woman from Rengasamypuram village, Melur Taluk, Madurai. Her sample was taken when she came for a routine check-up to the Thaniyamangalam Primary Health Centre, Melur Taluk. Her husband’s house is near the New Bus stand in Karaikudi, in Sivaganga district. She had come to her mother’s place a month ago. The source of infection of a 65-year-old woman is unknown. She has been ailing for the past three years and had difficulty in walking. Her son and his family had come to visit her before the lockdown and are with her now. As this lady’s house is near the ration shop in Jaihindpuram, the authorities have decided to take samples of nearly 839 people who visited it in the recent times. Dindigul reported a new case after six days, with the last case reported on April 24. The 38-year-old woman, who tested positive from Mettupatti, which is adjacent to Begampur, a containment zone in the city. Samples have been taken from 31 of her contacts, according to authorities. In the southern region, the major share of cases came from Madurai, Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts, which have reported 87, 80 and 63 cases so far. For all other seven districts, the number of Covid-19 cases reported is fewer than 50. Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari have reported only fewer than 20 cases till now. Tenkasi, which was seeing a sudden rise in cases, has not reported a fresh case after April 25 and its tally at 38. During the past week, Covid-19 cases have been reported only from Madurai, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram in the southern region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hopes-soar-over-downward-spiral-of-cases-in-south-tn/articleshow/75498160.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University researchers’ call to protect bats||MADURAI: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is batting to protect bats, with researchers urging the public to avoid any misconceptions about bats as being carriers of Covid-19 virus. Research on bats is being carried out in the School of Biological Sciences (SBS) at MKU for more than 40 years. Within the university campus, there is a huge colony of the fruit bats (Pteropus giganteus) hanging from the branches of banyan, lebbeck and neem trees, opposite to the Vice-Chancellor’s bungalow and the ladies hostel. The colony has been existing for 25 years and post-graduate and research students of the SBS have been conducting research on it for their dissertation and PhD. The MKU VC Dr M Krishnan said that so far a total of 35 students have obtained PhD by working on various behavioural repertoire of bats that feed upon insects, frogs, mice and fruits.  In addition, 11 students and faculty members from Germany and Canada have visited the SBS to work for PhD and for doing short term research on bats. G Marimuthu, Indian National Science Academy (INSA) scientist at MKU pointed out the role played by bats in maintaining ecological balance and their usefulness by saying, “Each individual insect-eating bat feeds upon agricultural pest equivalent to the amount of its body weight. Hence millions of insect pests are being killed every night by bats. The fruit eating bats also help in dispersal of seeds and pollination of flowers.” He added that in Madagascar, people enjoy consuming the expensive coffee in the world at Rs 18,000 per kilogram that is prepared from the seeds, whose fruits are nibbled by bats. The scientist then stressed the importance of protecting bats and said that there was no definite proof that the mammals were carriers of Covid-19 virus. “Of course, bats carry some viruses like any other animals.  However, it is a premature decision to victimize bats as the carrier of Covid-19 when there is no definite proof. Public should not believe in rumours. Bats do not attack or bite people on their own. They just need to be left alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-researchers-call-to-protect-bats/articleshow/75498156.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||NCERT appoints counsellor to guide students, teachers||Dehradun: The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has appointed Neeru Bisht as counsellor to help out students and teachers in Uttarakhand. The counsellor has been appointed to clear all doubts of students, parents, and teachers in the state regarding results, syllabus, and others. “The students, parents, teachers, among others can call at our helpline numbers — 8126302767 and 8650586778. All their doubts whether it is regarding online classes, syllabus, and other matters will be answered,” said Neeru Bisht, NCERT counsellor for Uttarakhand. Bisht, who is also a research scholar at the Himgiri Zee University, Dehradun, can be also reached via email — neerubisht838@gmail.com. The Covid-19 pandemic has caused anxiety and uncertainty in the minds of parents, teachers, and children. In order to provide guidance to children in these times, NCERT has come up with free of charge “Counselling Services for School Students” through its trained counsellors. Meanwhile, several parents in the city have complained that a few private schools are forcing them to submit their ward’s fees with immediate effect despite the education department’s strict order to not force any parent for submitting fees. “We have received several complaints from parents regarding submission of fees. As of now, we haven’t found any school violating the order but our team is constantly keeping a check on each school,” said Asha Rani Painuly, state’s chief education officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ncert-appoints-counsellor-to-guide-students-teachers/articleshow/75496749.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Locals oppose centre to quarantine migrant workers in S’kulam||Rajam (Srikakulam): Tension prevailed at Dolapeta in Srikakulam district on Friday when police resorted to lathi charge to disperse people who were opposing a quarantine facility in their area. Several people, including a few women, received minor injuries in the police action. The district administration had arranged a quarantine centre to house about 200 migrant labourers who were brought there in four buses from Ravulapalem in East Godavari district on Friday morning. District officials said around 10,000 migrant labourers are likely to reach the district in the next week. “We can’t send them directly to their villages even though the preliminary screening was done at Ravulapalem before they boarded the buses. Here we will conduct a proper screening and keep them for a few days in quarantine. This is a procedure and we have to follow it,” said a district official. When the buses reached Dolapeta on Friday morning, locals, including several women, protested and blocked the road. They did not allow the labourers into the government school that has been converted into a quarantine centre. They stopped the buses and kept arguing with the officials who tried to persuade them for almost three hours. District SP Ammireddy said the police faced stiff opposition from locals. “Locals fear the migrant labourers may spread the virus. But none of them have tested positive for Covid-19, and they do not need to fear,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/locals-oppose-centre-to-quarantine-migrant-workers-in-skulam/articleshow/75496757.cms||Siva G
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Kannada Culture Foundation leads efforts to help expat Kannadigas in distress||MANGALURU: For the past month, hundreds of Kannadigas stranded across the Gulf, Malaysia and United Kingdom have been in severe distress owing to the restrictions imposed in these countries to curb the spread of the Covid-19 infection. Forced to stay indoors, many of the Kannadigas, most of whom are daily wage labourers, have been struggling to obtain essential commodities owing to the lack of money. Among the many organisations that have reached out to stranded Kannadigas, the Karnataka Cultural Foundation (KCF) has been leading the efforts to ensure that the hapless people are supplied food kits and medicines in their respective countries. KCF, an organisation based in the Gulf region, receives calls on its helpline numbers and its large network of volunteers attend to the requests. President of the KCF’s Saudi Arabia unit Yousuf Saqafi Baithar, a native of Harekala in Mangaluru, told TOI that the organisation had shared its helpline numbers of Kannadigas stranded in UAE, Oman, Qatar, Malaysia, Bahrain, Kuwait and England. “Our volunteers have been reaching out to those who have sought aid by calling on our helplines. SO far, our volunteers have attended to more than 400 distress calls, and distributed food kits and medicines in the past month. In most cases, the callers are people staying in small rooms and rented apartments,” Saqafi said. He said that one of the calls they had received was from a camp where 80 Kannadigas, all of whom work at a hotel, are staying. “They had no job and consequently, no money to buy food and other rations. Our volunteers are active in a large number of cities and operations across these countries is being supervised by some of our senior members. We are extending aid to all expatriates and not discriminating among any of them,” Saqafi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kannada-culture-foundation-leads-efforts-to-help-expat-kannadigas-in-distress/articleshow/75496770.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Confusion over death cause of Covid-19 positive patient||VISAKHAPATNAM: The death of a 62-year-old man with kidney-related ailments at King George Hospital (KGH) has created alarm among medical staff who underwent Covid-19 tests after authorities suspected the death might be the city’s first Covid-related fatality. The patient from Old Town was admitted to KGH on Thursday night following kidney problems and kept in the isolation ward. Doctors started treatment after his sample was sent for a Covid-19 test. The 62-year-old passed away in the early hours of Friday. His family shifted the body back home as they considered it to be a kidney-related death. A large number of medical staff and officials of the GVMC medical wing, however, rushed to the deceased’s residence a few hours later after his sample returned positive. By this time, the final rites had been completed by his family. Sources said around 70 relatives took part in the ceremony. “Authorities are on their toes. They sent the sample for test and the result came out positive, by which time the person had died and had already been cremated,” said a medical staff at KGH. KGH superintendent G Arjuna said medical staff at the hospital have been sent for testing. “However, it is uncertain whether the death was caused by kidney-related ailments or Covid-19. An eight-member high level committee headed by the director of medical education will examine the case and announce the cause of death, until which time the death should not be considered a Covid-related fatality,” he said. District medical and health officer S Thirupathi Rao, AMC principal Dr PV Sudhakar and the KGH superintendent issued a joint statement urging people to not view it as Covid death until announcement by the high level committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/confusion-over-death-cause-of-covid-ve-patient/articleshow/75496767.cms||Siva G
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maharanipeta gets wake-up call after three positive Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Reports of three positive Covid-19 cases from the city on Friday have more than shaken up the otherwise laidback neighbourhood of Maharanipeta. The locality is the administrative and health centre of the city with the King George Hospital (KGH), the district collectorate and the zilla parishad situated in the area. The two positive cases have been reported from Dandubazaar area, which is also known as Ramajogipeta. The third case is that of a 62-year-old man, who died of kidney ailments at the KGH. The deceased’s sample has come out positive. “As of now, we are in the process of tracing all people the two positive patients came in contact with in the last 14 days. We are also following the same procedure with regard to the patient who died at the KGH. Containment measures within a three-kilometre radius will be taken up by Saturday morning,” said district collector V Vinay Chand. The local residents are, meanwhile, worried over the developments as Maharanipeta is one of the major hospital zones in north coastal AP and also has vast residential colonies, not to mention a sizeable population of old people. “They must scan the entire city, quarantine the homeless people and subject them to RT-PCR tests. There should be no loose ends and wearing masks must be made mandatory. More importantly, any place with more than two cases should be cordoned off completely and treated as a red zone,” said EAS Sarma, a civic activist and former bureaucrat who is also a resident of Maharanipeta. Sarma also demanded intense surveillance of all the deaths that were recently reported in private hospitals and also of patients with flu-like symptoms. Meanwhile, the district collector assured that intense door-to-door surveillance would be taken up in the area from Saturday. On Visakhapatnam being classified as ‘orange zone’, the collector made it clear that this classification was dynamic and based on the number of cases being reported and their doubling rate. He, however, pointed out that GVMC limits were definitely within the containment zone. Vinay Chand further informed that the number of people tested in Visakhapatnam district has crossed 15,600 mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maharanipeta-gets-wake-up-call-after-3-ve-covid-cases/articleshow/75496785.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Van Gujjars can’t migrate to Himachal this summer||DEHRADUN: Van Gujjars, the forest tribals of Uttarakhand, are worried they won’t be able to migrate to Himachal Pradesh this month. Every year, they start their journey towards upper Himachal around the second week of April, walking around 10-15 km per day in April to reach their destinations. But due to the lockdown this year, they were caught in villages of the plains where they spend the winters. The Van Gujjars generally spend the summers in Shimla, Chamba, Hamirpur, Rohdu and Kotkhaai in Himachal, and return by end-September. This year, this herder community, spread across Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, are staring at tough days ahead. Their breed of cattle can’t survive the summer heat of the plains, so they migrate to the Himalayan valleys where their cattle graze on Himalayan grass. “Our animals are acclimatised to cold weather, but here in the plains, they neither get good fodder nor plentiful water from the mountain streams to survive the summers. We are distressed that we’re being held back,” said Haaji Abdul Kareem from Mohund forest along the UP and Uttarakhand border. Kareem has 35 buffaloes and desperately wishes the state government order be reversed. He claimed over 2,500 Van Gujjar families with over 20,000 heads of cattle from the border area of the two states migrate during this time. The state government has proposed some relief measures, like regular medical checkups, fodder supply and procurement of milk and byproducts from the communities. The animal husbandry department has been assigned the task of regularly monitoring their sole income source — cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nomadic-van-gujjars-distressed-they-cant-migrate-to-himachal-this-summer/articleshow/75496777.cms||Shivani Azad
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Capital cities must have resident commissioner offices: Experts||VIJAYAWADA: In view of the current crisis involving migrant workers, experts suggest setting up a permanent resident commissioner’s office in capital cities, similar to the one in New Delhi. Such an office, they say, can handle exigencies that arise in future through better preparedness and a well though-out and calibrated response. Director of Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V), Prof M Chandrasekhar said, “An important but clearly unknown or underestimated aspect hitherto that has come to the fore in the present lockdown is the extent of labour force that moves from one state to the other in search of work and livelihood. We have witnessed these people attempting to migrate back home. But many times, they are unable to do so due to a various factors such as lack of timely information and guidance, lack of public transport, apathy and others. To be fair to the authorities, no one foresaw this crisis coming; at least not in its severity, spontaneity, sweep and spread. But some lessons useful for the future should be gleaned.” Prof Chandrasekhar suggested setting up the resident commissioner’s (RC) office permanently in capital cities of destination states. “This should be done with the concurrence of the local state government and under advice to the inter-state council secretariat under the ministry of home affairs. Such an office should be manned by a senior officer (not below the rank of a principal secretary). The RC Office should, on a regular basis, build and update the database of all the workforce as well as students from the home state working/studying locally,” he added. “This database could be built on the basis of Aadhaar, mobile number, and Jan Dhan account numbers for easy contact and traceability. The RC Office should maintain regular interaction with such migrated people and carry out IEC campaigns to make them aware of their duties, responsibilities and obligations. In times of emergency, the RC Office should step in and readily use a discretionary fund kept at its disposal and do everything possible to mitigate the difficulties of its home/native state people,” said Prof Chandrasekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/capital-cities-must-have-resident-commissioner-offices-experts/articleshow/75496809.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: KMC house surgeon found dead||CHENNAI: A 23-year-old house surgeon was found dead in her hostel room at the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital (KMCH) on Friday morning. Police said the woman, a resident of Perambur, was staying in the hostel since April 18 due to the lockdown and was posted in the obstetrics and gynaecology department. She had visited Indonesia with her parents a month ago and had since been in quarantine though she tested negative. She had rejoined duty on April 18. On Friday morning, two of her friends who lived in the same hostel came looking for her. When repeated knocks did not elicit any response, they called up her mobile phone. When their calls went unanswered, her friends alerted the hostel authorities. A security guard broke open the door and found her lying on the bed. The police were called and she was rushed to the hospital where she was declared brought dead. Police said the cause of death was not immediately known and the viscera had been collected for testing. The Kilpauk police registered a case of unnatural death and sent the body for postmortem. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh and senior police officials visited the hospital and also conducted an inquiry. The woman usually stayed at her home at Perambur, but had shifted to the hostel because of the lockdown. She had not been assigned to attend to Covid-19 patients and had been was posted in the obstetrics and gynaecology department ten days ago. On Thursday night, she had dinner with her friends. Her parents had gone to Vellore before the lockdown. She last spoke to her mother at 9pm on Thursday. “Also, she posted a message in her family group saying her work was hectic and she had no time for relaxation,” said a senior police officer. Doctors have lifted swabs again for testing for Covid-19. There were no external injuries on her body. Police are awaiting the postmortem report to ascertain the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kmc-house-surgeon-found-dead/articleshow/75498183.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Despite lockdown, 14 firms connect with IIT-Bombay for hiring, more on way||MUMBAI: Around 14 companies have shown interest in recruiting IIT-Bombay graduates amid the Covid-19 lockdown. More companies are expected to participate in the placement process in the coming days and weeks. The elite institute has resumed its second phase of recruitment even as students are anxious about job confirmation and withdrawal of offers in the current scenario. Several institutes in the city are taking efforts to ensure placements are not jeopardized. So far, at IIT-B, only five offers from one company have been revoked. These students will be allowed to participate in the ongoing online process, said an official from the placement cell. Every year, the placement season at IIT-B attracts over 300 companies. Interviews are being conducted on Skype and on phones. A majority of these companies are from research, IT, consulting and education sectors. Courseleap, Metal Power, Matdun Corp and Institute of Advanced Sciences are some of the companies that have begun to hire IIT-B talent. The second phase of recruitment at IIT-B usually commences in January and goes on till April. This year, the process was suspended in March following the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. While 1,204 students from the 2019-20 graduating batch have already been placed, the institute has requested all companies to defer the joining dates till August 1. Most companies have responded in the affirmative, said the official. At National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE) in Powai, the administration has begun online exams for 410 postgraduate students to enable them to join respective firms post lockdown, on a provisional graduation status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-lockdown-14-firms-connect-with-iit-b-for-hiring-more-on-way/articleshow/75498205.cms||Yogita Rao
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Ship offers comfort of home to leopard in Gujarat's Alang||RAJKOT: A half dismantled ship turned into a unusual new home for a fully grown leopard at Alang, one of the biggest ship cutting and recycling yards in the world. The leopard, which had sneaked into the ship, an oil tanker named King Kong 3, was finally captured after a week-long struggle by the forest department, on Friday. The rescuers were, however, astonished to find out that the leopard had been living inside a dark compartment for nearly four weeks. Alang, which is usually a place bustling with thousands of workers engaged in cutting ships, has been a deserted place as the work has come to standstill due to lockdown. Officials said they found remains of several dogs inside the compartment, which has led them to believe that the leopard had been easily going out for hunting and returning with its prey to its ‘new’ home. The shipyard is a vast open plot where stray dogs are aplenty around besides sprawling farmlands in the adjoining coastal area. Sandeep Kumar, deputy conservator of forest, Bhavnagar, told TOI: “The leopard had made a compartment of the half-broken ship its home. It used to go outside during the night and return with a prey. We have found carcass of dogs inside the compartment.” The leopard was first spotted late in the night last week by a security guard at the plot number 153 where the vessel was beached. The initial efforts to cage the leopard failed and tranquilizing was not possible since it was very dark inside and rescuers were scared to venture too close to the wild cat. Meanwhile, as the Alang yard falls outside Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation limits, the ship breakers were allowed to resume work as per the government guidelines. They made fervent requests to the forest department to capture the leopard, which had created a scare among all of them. As it was risky to enter the ship, the rescuers first closed the lone entry into the vessel. With the help of ship owner, they broke one small portion through which a veterinary doctor tranquilized the leopard. “There was very less oxygen inside and the leopard had smartly made its place near cross ventilation. As a result, the rescuers could spot it from the cavity and got to know its exact hiding place,” Kumar added. Leopard can survive on dogs, wild boards, nil gai and other herbivorous. However, this one targeted the dogs as they were easier to carry inside the ship. Watch Half dismantled ship offers comfort of home to leopard in Gujarat's Alang||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ship-offers-comfort-of-home-to-leopard-in-alang/articleshow/75497483.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||With OPDs closed, private hospitals in Andhra Pradesh face fund crunch||VISAKHAPATNAM: Private hospitals across Andhra Pradesh have reported serious financial distress with several patients postponing their treatment in order to avoid a visit fearing coronavirus (Covid-19) infection. Suspension of non-emergency surgeries and closure of outpatient departments as per central government directive has also added to their woes. “Elective surgeries and referrals from outpatient services constitute a major portion of the revenue at any hospital. With both avenues closed, most hospitals are facing financial issues,” senior cardiologist Dr V Prasanth said, adding that the pandemic has posed a higher risk for smaller hospitals. “While corporate hospitals have the infrastructure to ensure safety measures needed to treat patients, smaller hospitals and nursing homes which constitute 80% of private medical establishments lack resources. When patients cannot access smaller hospitals, they are forced to rely on the bigger ones,” Dr Prasanth added. Doctors said financial distress has forced several small nursing homes to close down. “A number of medical establishments are at a risk of closing soon since their cash reserves have dried up,” orthopaedician Dr K S Praveen Kumar said. Confirming the crisis, hospital owners and doctors in several cities said that many of them had to resort to 50% salary cut for their employees and if the trend continues, they have to go for retrenchment. Speaking about patients postponing treatment, cardio thoracic surgeon Dr K Ravi said, “Some conditions fall into a gray zone of medical risk. While they may not be emergencies, many could become life threatening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-opds-closed-pvt-hosps-face-fund-crunch/articleshow/75496822.cms||Reshma Jain
May 2, 2020||Agra||13 health workers booked for fleeing quarantine in Mathura||AGRA: Barely hours after Mathura DM ordered registration of an FIR against 13 staffers of Government District Combined Hospital, who fled from a quarantine centre, all of them including five nurses and three ward boys resurfaced at the same hospital, on Friday morning. Notwithstanding their return to the district combined hospital, they all were booked by the local police under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC at Vrindavan police station. This was confirmed by station house officer, Sanjeev Dubey. These staffers had fled from Krishna Kuteer quarantine centre, where they had been shifted after one of the district combined hospital’s ward boy tested positive for coronavirus on April 28. Officials said now they were not ready to go back to the quarantine centre and were insisting on staying at the district hospital only. Earlier, 13 doctors, who came in contact with the infected ward boy, had also refused to shift at the quarantine centre and quarantined themselves in the hospital itself. Health officials said that most of the doctors are not ready to give samples for Covid-19 test and only 20 samples from health workers had been collected till Friday. Meanwhile, 10 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total tally to 25 in the district. Among the 10 patients, an elderly couple also tested positive for the infection. The couple are the parents of a boy, who had earlier tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-health-workers-booked-for-fleeing-quarantine-in-mathura/articleshow/75496849.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Agra||3 kids dead due to 'negligence' in Agra in a week: NCPCR issues notice to dist admin||Agra: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to the Agra district administration following a complaint filed over the death of two kids and a woman delivering stillborn, after they were allegedly denied treatment by several hospitals, including the government ones. The commission has sought an action taken report from the district magistrate in three days. “According to the complaint based on news reports published in various newspapers of Agra, Mohd Bilal Hamza and Afsana Gauri took their 8-month-old son to a private hospital and then to SN Medical College, Agra, where the baby was not provided with immediate treatment and died. Similarly, in another case, a 12-year-old boy was not attended at a private hospital and the government hospital, and was sent back home. And in the third case, a foetus died after the pregnant woman did not get timely treatment,” the notice read. “You are, therefore, requested to look into the matter on urgent basis and take disciplinary action for negligence by hospital staff and give instructions for providing timely medical assistance in such emergency cases during the lockdown period,” the notice added. Child rights activist Naresh Paras, who filed the complaint, hoped that a stern action would be taken against those responsible for the death of the children. “Due to the lockdown, the medical system in Agra has completely collapsed for non-Covid-19 patients. At least three children have died in the city due to unavailability of medical assistance on time. Each of these cases reveal carelessness on the part of the authorities. I hope action will be taken against those responsible for the death of children and such incidents do not happen again.” Paras said on Friday. In the past one-week, cases of gross medical negligence surfaced in Agra where non-Covid-19 patients were denied treatment by private and government hospitals. The first case took place on April 22, where a pregnant woman was denied admission in at least two private hospitals. The women had to suffer severe pain for over 6 hours. And finally at 9 pm, she was admitted at the district woman’s hospital, where the doctors declared the death of the child in the womb. The second case happened on April 24, where a 12-year-old boy was turned away by six private hospitals. The kid had developed acute pain in his stomach. After exhausting all the options, the child was rushed to the SN Medical College. But the doctors there allegedly asked the parents to put the child in the isolation ward meant for Covid-19 patients. “So, the next day, we again took him to a private hospital, the sixth one, but the doctors there, too, didn’t admit him. We then approached police station and district administration for help. They asked us to go back to SN Medical College. But, he was declared brought dead by the doctors”, said Lakhan Singh, 12-year-old’s father. The third incident happened on Wednesday in which three private hospitals refused to provide treatment to an eight-month-old baby. When the parents reached SN Medical College, the hospital staff allegedly asked them to do paperwork for admitting the child, which died due to delay in treatment. “The child could have been saved if a doctor was made available at SN Medical on time. The guard at the gate of the emergency ward only allowed his father in to get a written permission to admit the child. Even after repeated requests, the staffers at the emergency ward refused to admit the child without the paperwork,” said Mohammad Shaan, the child's uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-kids-dead-due-to-negligence-in-agra-in-a-week-ncpcr-issues-notice-to-dist-admin/articleshow/75496845.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus in Chennai: Police clip wings of lockdown violators with drones||CHENNAI: Three quadcopters covering a 13sqkm area from above for 14 days have given police a peek into the ways people are violating the lockdown in containment zones. The Greater Chennai police engaged an aerial photographer and experts to study the pattern of movement from April 13 to 27. The drones captured 500GB high-resolution videos. On analysis, it was found that among Mannady, Pudupet, Chinthadripet and Triplicane – areas with high cases -- people in Mannady came out of their homes the most. In Mannady, 284 people stepped out of their homes, particularly between noon and 2pm to buy groceries or interact with neighbours. In Pudupet, 196 people ventured out, 167 people moved around in Chinthadripet and 37 residents violated the lockdown in Triplicane. But the analysis helped the police department change its patrolling strategies and barricade positions. Police are focusing on the directions residents have mainly taken. "The details helped police in diverting their force to areas where maximum violations were observed," said R R Sivaraman, S Team, the firm that volunteered to provide the drone service. "After a week-long exercise along the main roads, interior streets were in areas such as Pudupet. The movement of people has come down now," said joint commissioner, East zone, R Sudhakar. More drones will be operated in these areas to ensure residents remain indoors. Soon a monitoring room will be set up for live mapping instructing the ground force. "We felt that containment zones need more focus to contain the spread. Additional studies will help us in finding a pattern of undue movement and prevent it," said Chennai police commissioner A K Vishwanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-clip-wings-of-curfew-violators-with-drones/articleshow/75498200.cms||Sindhu Kannan
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Rural U’khand women make masks at home, sew their way out of economic uncertainty||Dehradun/ Mussoorie: Even as the lockdown plunged thousands into economic hardship, the local women of Uttarakhand have found a way to provide for their families while contributing to the society's fight against Covid-19. Tribal women in Dehradun as well as those living in far-flung areas like Almora, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh have started making face masks at home, which are dispatched to NGOs, government bodies etc. When the manufacturing units of woollens shut down in Dehradun, around four to five Self Help Groups (SHG) of women operating under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) lost their jobs. This is when tribal women of humble means living in the outskirts of Dehradun came up with the idea of manufacturing face masks at home. Sarita Chauhan, who belongs to the Jaunsari tribal community, said, “We decided to start making face masks as currently there is a big demand for them. Each woman is able to make around 50 masks daily. The people we worked for while making woollens, are now providing us raw material and helping us market our products.” Sheetal Pal, a member of the Bhotiya tribe, said, “We get Rs 4 for each face mask. The occupation helps us earn some money during the lockdown. Many women have also taken to working in the fields, as it helps them get wheat and other grains for their household.” The owner of Rural India Craft, the firm of woollens the women worked at, said, “We have started receiving decent bulk orders now. We are providing them (the women) with free raw material. All communication is done over the phone. The face masks are also being donated to various NGOs and government bodies.” Like the tribals of Dehradun, women of more than 100 SHGs from Almora, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Champawat, Nainital, Pauri, Pithoragarh and Tehri Garhwal are sewing low-cost, reusable and biodegradable face masks. Aided by the Uttarakhand Forest Resource Management Project (UFRMP), the women have been trained to meet the growing demand for low-cost masks. UFRMP expects to produce close to 2 lakh masks within a month, which will be marketed both in and outside the state. Chief project director of UFRMP Anup Malik, whose idea it was to involve rural women in making masks, said, “It is expected that a woman can earn anywhere between Rs 200 to Rs 300 per day for six to eight hours of work.” Shanta Devi, from Mathana village in Pauri district, said, “This is an opportunity to enhance our earnings while helping society fight the deadly coronavirus.” The cloth is being provided to the SHG members through their cluster-level federations. Their capacity building is done by sharing online videos and teleconferencing. Supported by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), UFRMP is being implemented across 750 villages spread over 13 forest divisions and eight districts of Uttarakhand. Till date, 1,379 SHGs, comprising 14,000 members and 18 cluster-level federations, have been formed under this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rural-ukhand-women-make-masks-at-home-sew-their-way-out-of-economic-uncertainty/articleshow/75496830.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||On May Day, flags hoisted at houses||Coimbatore: Every year on May 1, tens of members of labour unions marked ‘International Labour Day’ by hoisting Red flags and distributing sweets. But this year, they hoisted flags at their houses and offices in the district on Friday amid the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic. “Every year, ‘Labour Day’ would be celebrated in a grand manner. But this time, we had to avoid due to pandemic scare. Instead we had directed our cadres to have a modest celebration. Flags were hoisted at all our party offices. We had ensured that not more than four members were gathered while hoisting the flag,” said district secretary of Communist Party of India (CPI) VS Sundaram in a statement. CPM member A Karim said, “On this day, we condemn the central government’s plan to change working hours from 8 to 12 hours per day in factories as it would increase the burden on the workers. Labour Day was observed every year to celebrate the achievements of the workers which includes eight-hour-day movement. The movement supported eight hours for work, eight hours for recreation and remaining eight hours for the rest of the workers. How fair it is to change the working hours for the workers?” “It is important to lockdown the country to control the spread of the virus, but it is also the duty of the government to help the workers. Apart from insisting the workers to stay back at home, the government should have done at least something to ensure that their livelihood is not affected,” said R Dhamodaran, a member of All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU). Pointing out that the worst affected are the lower and middle classes, he said some of them have not received their ration products, some of the construction workers and workers from unorganized sectors have not received their relief fund, some companies have implemented pay cuts and some migrant workers have not received their wages. Labour unions distributed relief materials and masks to the workers at several parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-may-day-flags-hoisted-at-houses/articleshow/75497496.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||PG medical students yet to get Covid-19 test results, live in fear||CHENNAI: Postgraduate students of Madras Medical College are gripped by fear as their Covid-19 test results have been delayed. The college, however, said the state’s protocol allowed them to declare results only if the patients’ samples tested positive. If nothing has been announced, it implies that the students have tested negative, it maintained. The men’s hostel in which the students reside was locked down after a hostel employee tested positive last week. The hostel has around 250 occupants and their throat/ nasal swabs were taken for tests subsequently. It feels very unsafe to stay in the same building or share washrooms without knowing who is infected and who isn’t, said a student, requesting anonymity. “Some of them have symptoms like cough and cold. Only if results are released on time, we will know if it is Covid-19 or a common illness,” he added. Students say they will feel relieved and can focus better on their work and academics if the results were out. In response, MMC Dean R Jayanthi said all 580 doctors, including PG students, and 582 nurses, paramedical staff on the campus have tested negative. If they had tested positive, they would have been isolated immediately and moved to wards for treatment as per state protocol, she added. “We can’t hold back any test result as it mandatory to enter the details to the government portal as and when they are out. There is no way we can withhold them. Across the state, only positive cases are announced,” she added. A section of doctors, however, stand with the students’ demand and said they have all rights to know their test results, just like any other patient. The students also claimed that the college records on Covid tests run on students and other healthcare workers was messed up, and that the institute hasn’t published the results due to confusion while preparing the list. The hospital denied this and claimed that they were taking efforts to introduce bulk messaging system soon, so there will no confusion in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pg-med-students-demand-to-know-their-covid-test-results/articleshow/75498191.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||MSME sector happy with AP government’s timely support||VISAKHAPATNAM: The financial package released by the state government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) could not have come at a better time for the sector which has been hit hard by the Covid crisis. The state has nearly 26 lakh MSMEs, with a workforce of 70 lakh people. The financial package will benefit nearly one lakh industries immediately. As per the announcement, nearly Rs 820 crore of the Rs 905 crore of past incentives from FY 2014-2020 will be cleared in May and June. One of the requests from the industry, to waive the minimum demand charges for the lockdown period, has also been considered by the government and would save the MSMEs around Rs 188 crore. Sivakumar Gunturu, CEO of Maple software and member of CII’s national council, said the move will ease cash flow. “The government also announced that large industries will be allowed deferment of minimum demand charges and associated penalties while the interest would be borne by the government. In association with SIDBI, the state government is offering Rs 200 crore to MSMEs at minimal interest. This will help the industries to kick-start teir operations and production immediately,” he said. Neeraj Sarda, former chair of CII Vizag and deputy MD of Sarda Metals and Alloys Ltd urged the government to also consider the release of long-pending incentives of medium and large industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/msme-sector-happy-with-govts-timely-support/articleshow/75496838.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Will take in those okay with quarantine, says collector||Coimbatore: Those coming from outside the district will be kept in quarantine for 14 days, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said on Friday.“We will detain the people coming from other districts and states at the border check posts and will shift them to quarantine centres. They will be let out only after 14 days,” he said.The containment zone at KK Pudur was opened on Thursday evening and those at Kinathukadavu and Anaimalai will be opened soon, the collector said. “Of the 141 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, 134 have been discharged from the ESI hospital. Six cops and a woman cop are undergoing treatment at the PSG Hospital and ESI hospital.”More than 5,000 samples have been collected for real-time polymerase chain reaction test, Rajamani said. “We have collected samples from all primary and secondary contacts. We can conduct the test for 1,500 people a day.”The district will be moved to orange zone from red zone soon. “The rural areas are 99% Covid-19 free. The administration is taking steps to get the green zone status within 10 days,” he said.All containment areas in the district will be opened within 14 days, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/will-take-in-those-okay-with-quarantine-says-collector/articleshow/75497506.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Service of top cop handling CM security extended||Chennai: The state government has extended the service of the chief officer overseeing the security of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Special branch CID wing superintendent of police Raja, who was to retire from service on April 30, has been given 13 months extension. He is a native of Erode, close to the Palaniswami’s native. Raja had been assigned to take care of the security arrangements of the chief minister and will continue in the role during the extension. The state home department issued a statement about the extension of Raja’s service hours before his retirement on Thursday. While the tenure of the present AIADMK government will end in May, 2021, Raja’s service extension will end on May 31, 2021. After Palaniswami became the CM, his government extended the service of former DGP T K Rajendran, who was given the extension to serve as the DGP of the state after superannuation. Raja is the second SP-rank officer to get extension from this government, the first being Sivanandam, who got a year’s extension. Sivanandam was the deputy commissioner of police of Chennai traffic planning cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/service-of-top-cop-handling-cm-security-extended/articleshow/75498209.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Surat||Surat: Scolded by dad for venturing out, teen ends life||SURAT: A 19-year-old diamond artisan committed suicide by jumping into Tapi River on Friday, allegedly because he was fed up of being pulled up by his father for frequently going out despite lockdown. The teenager, Ajay Dholakiya, had left his house in Hastinapur Society in Kapodra on Thursday after his father gave him a earful again. When he did not return, his family members started searching for him and found his chappals on Kapodra bridge. They feared that he might have some drastic step and approached Kapodra police station. They told police that Dholakiya was going out to see his girlfriend who lives in locality near their house. On Friday, his body was fished out by a team of Surat Fire and Emergency Services (SFES). Police recovered a suicide note from his pocket in which Dholakiya stated that he is ending his life due to ‘love problem.’ In the note he also requested his brother Chirag to take care of their parents, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scolded-by-dad-for-venturing-out-teen-ends-life/articleshow/75497513.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Set up task force and build infrastructure, economic panel advises government||PANAJI: The economic revival committee has recommended in its final report to the government to create a task force and strategise infrastructure integration plans for the state. It said the task force should include railways, Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), national highway authority of India (NHAI), PWD, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), airport authority of India (AAI), captain of ports (COP), GMR, Container Corporation etc. Headed by industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar, the committee said all these initiatives, coupled with the development of port and other sectors, will immensely benefit manufacturing as well as tourism in Goa. “The state can also be developed as a logistics hub,” it recommended. The committee said that Mopa airport will bring in a change in the class of travellers. It is observed that airports set up on PPP basis have paid rich dividends and created massive impact on the quality of tourism in various states in India. Double track laying on the Konkan railway route will improve route efficiency, speed and connectivity, it said. “The government’s decision to start the Mumbai-Goa boat service will also boost tourism,” committee said. It said the Centre has undertaken some infrastructure projects that can provide a major boost for Goa which include 4-laning of NH 66 from Panvel to Ernakulam. It will reduce the distance and travel time between Ernakulam and Mumbai and give Goa a good connectivity to the southern and western markets. Committee further said that the 4-laning of NH 748 from Goa to Belgaum would also reduce the travel time and distance between Goa and Pune. Both these will have tremendous advantages for Goa if we start planning our new economic policy for malls, shopping, restaurants, motels, hotels, etc. along this road alignment and encourage Goans to start preparing for it right away. It said the government should set up a task force to redefine economic growth keeping in mind all the points and also government of India’s mission-driven project ‘Sagarmala’. As of today, there is no recognition of this either in the business community or local administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/set-up-task-force-build-infra-economic-panel-advises-govt/articleshow/75498579.cms||Murari Shetye
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Southern Railway ready to run special trains to take guest workers home||CHENNAI: Southern Railway is gearing up to run point-to-point trains from Chennai to transport stranded guest workers, students and others to their states. Southern Railway will run the trains based on request from the Tamil Nadu government. The move comes after the ministry of railways announced that special Shramik trains would be operated to transport guest workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country due to the lockdown. People who do not show flu-like symptoms will be allowed to travel in these trains. The first such train in the zone was operated from Aluva in Kerala to Bhubaneswar in Odisha on Friday. A railway official said staff have been told to report for work at short notice to prepare coaches for the special trains if there is a request from the Tamil Nadu government. “Rakes are available. But the coaches have to be cleaned, disinfected and fitness checked before releasing them for operation. Now, a skeletal staff is coming to check the trains as only parcel trains and staff special trains are being operated. Preparing trains for passenger trips will require a full workforce,” said an official. Railways will also appoint a nodal officer to coordinate with the state government for the services. Steps will be taken to do thermal checks on passengers and to ensure social distancing inside the railway stations. The special trains may have to be operated from Egmore station as services cannot be operated out of MGR Central because Elephant Gate bridge is being pulled down. The state government will be responsible to bring the people in batches to the station, conduct thermal checks, arrange food and water at the departure station. If the journey is long, railways will provide food onboard, said a press release. The zone is yet to get a request from the state government to operate such trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-ready-to-run-spl-trains-to-take-guest-workers-home/articleshow/75498216.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Violations many, but fewer cases in southern Chennai a relief for corporation||CHENNAI: While North Chennai has remained a cause of concern and Central Chennai is showing a steady spike in Covid-19 positive cases, Greater Chennai Corporation officials and residents are relieved that South Chennai continues to remain less affected. Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur -- which have more than 25 lakh people – have 102 cases among them. This accounts for only 9% of the total number of positive cases in Chennai. While Valasaravakkam has 60 cases (20 of them on May 1), Sholinganallur -- which comprises the IT corridor -- has recorded only three cases so far. The civic body has scaled down containment operations in certain areas of Perungudi as it has been without a case for 28 days. The corporation said effective containment measures have ensured that the cases did not spread across South Chennai. "Had we not acted early and not restricted movement, there are chances that the virus might have spread to the south. For now, cases in these regions are mostly foreign returnees and their contacts," said a senior corporation official. There has been no major spurt in any of these zones, except in Valsaravakkam and Adyar. As on May 1, there are 60 cases in Valasaravakkam, while Adyar has 21 cases. "Till date, the corporation has 233 streets under containment in the city. Of these only 32 are from these five zones in the south," an official said, adding that containment remains the civic body’s top most priority after testing. While the number of cases has remained less compared to other parts of Chennai, South Chennai residents have violated physical distancing norms, especially at the Thiruvanmiyur market and on Nanganallur Market Road. "With vegetable vendors and grocers who had visited Koyambedu testing positive, authorities should have been more careful in enforcement. During the normal days of lockdown and a day before the total lockdown, the markets were a complete chaos. This will negate all the efforts taken for over a month," said S Karthik, a resident of Voltas Colony in Nanganallur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/violations-many-but-fewer-cases-in-southern-chennai-a-relief-for-corpn/articleshow/75498217.cms||Srikkanth D
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar district hosp to get 500-bed ward soon||Rudrapur: The Jawaharlal Nehru district hospital in Rudrapur will have a new 500-bed ward operational by May 10. The new ward will improve facilities in the hospital which is being developed as Pandit Ram Sumer Shukla Memorial Medical College, Kichha BJP MLA Rajesh Shukla (son of Pandit Ram Sumer Shukla) told TOI that the state government is extending the capacity at the hospital to provide best possible healthcare to the poor. He added that the work regarding the ward will be started at the earliest in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. “Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has recently given nod to appointing more staff at the hospital this year and also to start a batch of medical students by 2022. Meanwhile, the authorities will focus on improving the facilities at the hospital by constructing a massive building. The Central government has approved a budget of more than Rs 300 crore for the hospital and the medical college. We aim to provide corporate-like health services to each and every person by enhancing facilities.” RK Pandey, project manager for construction of new ward, said, “We will make this new ward functional by May 10. We want the district hospital to be ready for even the worst phase of this virus outbreak.” Rudrapur’s assistant chief medical officer Dr Avinash Khanna told TOI, “The new ward will provide relief to the patients and the medics. The out-patient department of the hospital hosts over 600 patients everyday but due to lack of beds, we had to refer a few patients to higher centres. However, we won’t need to do that after the new ward becomes functional. Also, the massive space will help the staff in better combatting the Covid-19 threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-district-hosp-to-get-500-bed-ward-soon/articleshow/75496851.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Clear road map needed for guest workers’ journey back home||Coimbatore: The district administrations are awaiting detailed guidelines from the state government to take home guest workers who are willing to return. At least 2.20 lakh guest workers are stranded in the district and the neighbouring Tirupur.About 90,000 guest workers, most of them from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, are stuck in the district, while 1.30 lakh are stranded in Tirupur, where there are 45,000 workers from Odisha alone.A district administration official said, “We have already collected the details of guest workers and shared that with the state government, police department and Southern Railways on their request.”Explaining that they have been waiting for detailed guidelines from the state, the official said a clear picture on how the guest workers would be transported back to their native places would emerge only after that.The situation is almost the same in Tirupur. An official there said they would start collecting details of guest workers, who are willing to travel back home, only after the guidelines were out.Pointing out that volunteer groups have been working closely with the guest workers, the official said it would take them only a few days to collect their details.The Coimbatore district administration official, meanwhile, said more than 50% of workers might want to return to their native places. “It is not just because of lack of employment opportunities, but to spend time with their family members during the crisis.” The remaining, he said, might stay back here and resume work once the industries started functioning.Naveen Kumar, a guest worker from Bihar, said, “We are a group of 351 and all of us want to go home. Our employers said we won’t be having any work for a few months post the lockdown. Then what is the point in staying here away from our families.” He is staying at Angeripalayam in Tirupur. Acknowledging that their company management and volunteers have been helping them, he said they preferred to be with their family members to provide them at least a moral support during the crisis. “If the government helps us to travel till Patna, from there we would travel on our own to our respective districts.”R Sekar, founder of Sri Valar Tech, said the guest workers’ parents have been asking them to come back home. “They call me once in a few days to ensure their wards are safe and ask me to take care of them.” Many guest workers from Bihar are presently staying at his company.“We have been paying them about Rs 500 each a week. Without any business, how could we continue to pay them? The workers would return to my company only if I take good care of them. So, I have decided to send them home at the earliest,” Sekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/clear-road-map-needed-for-guest-workers-journey-back-home/articleshow/75497503.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Traders seek assent to resume business||Coimbatore: Members of trade associations in the district have sought the collector’s intervention to help them resume their businesses with restrictions from Monday. The federation consists of 14 associations of pipe merchants, radio and electronic traders, carpenters etc. Over 3,500 families are dependent on this business.“It has been over 40 days since we closed our business and our loss is estimated to be in hundreds of crores. That is why we have requested the collector to take necessary steps to help us resume our business, with restrictions,” said S Natrajan from Coimbatore metal merchant association. Natarajan said the association members were ready to resume their businessess even with minimal workforce and fixed hours, if allowed. “At some point, businesses should be revived and progress should be made. We would adhere to the guidelines of the government if permission is granted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traders-seek-assent-to-resume-business/articleshow/75497507.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally reaches 500, 15 more discharged||Agra: By Friday evening, 26 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district, increasing its tally to 500. The same day, 15 people were declared cured of the infection and discharged. In the last 30 days, 471 people had tested positive in Agra. On average, 16 people are being found positive every day. So far, 14 Covid-19 patients have died in the district, though, according to the health department, all of them had pre-existing co-morbidities. The new cases include a pregnant woman who had gone for checkup at a private hospital, a retired teacher of an Agra college, six vegetable sellers, an e-rickshaw driver, an auto-rickshaw driver, a cable TV lineman, a heart patient at a private hospital and a hardware businessman. Five of the 26 cases were traced to Hasanpura village in Khandoli block, where migrant labourers who had returned from Delhi were tested positive. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All new Covid-19 patients were put in isolation, attended by a team of doctors. Their contacts are being identified, people living in their neighborhoods and places they visited recently are being screened.” According to the health department, of the 500 cases in Agra, 105 are related to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and their contacts, 95 to a private hospital on NH-2, 25 to a private hospital in Rakabganj and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan. A further 60 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts, and 26 cases to people with overseas travel history and their contacts. DM Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 124 people have been cured and discharged. Anyone who has come in contact with a Covid-19 patient is being screened, their neighborhoods sanitised. Currently, there are 39 active hotspots in the city. They are being closely monitored. We’re doing massive sampling in these areas to identify all infected people, and putting them in institutional quarantine.” There was something to cheer at S N Medical College, where a 26-year-old Covid-19 patient delivered a healthy baby via C-section on Friday evening, the fifth such case in the district in the last 11 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-reaches-500-15-more-discharged/articleshow/75496870.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Two motorcyclists killed in accidents||Coimbatore: Two fatal road accidents were reported from the city on Thursday for the first time since the lockdown was implemented.A 38-year-old motorcyclist was mowed down by a goods carrier at Ganapathy on Thursday evening. The victim, K Ravikumar of Lakshmi Garden at Saravanampatti, was on the way back home along with his mother K Shantha, 55, after buying groceries, police sources said. When they reached Moore Market near Ganapathy, a goods autorickshaw dashed against the two wheeler. A 108 ambulance rushed the injured duo to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). However, doctors declared Ravikumar brought dead. The body was handed over to the family on Friday. The traffic investigation wing (TIW) has registered a case against autorickshaw driver R Giriprasad of Peelamedu.A 34-year-old man was killed after he lost control over his motorcycle and crashed into a bullock cart on the L&T Bypass near Kanjikonampalayam Pirivu on Thursday. The deceased was identified as M Ismail of Aathi Sakthi Nagar at Kuniyamuthur.Ismail was on the way to his home and was riding the two-wheeler in a rash manner, police sources said. He suffered severe head injuries in the crash. Though he was rushed to CMCH, doctors could not save him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-motorcyclists-killed-in-accidents/articleshow/75497509.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Agra||UP: 15-year-old girl of Etah dies in Aligarh's JNMC after testing positive for Covid-19||AGRA: A 15-year-old girl of Etah district passed away in Aligarh's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) after testing positive for Covid-19. She is said to be the youngest victim of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh. Belonging to Vahanpur village of Dehat Kotwali, Sheetalpur block, the girl was suffering from TB and had left for Aligarh a few days ago along with her parents and brother. On Wednesday, she tested positive and around 5:15 am on Friday she died. Her family members have been tested negative so far. Chief medical officer of Etah Dr Ajay Agrawal told TOI, “Since the girl succumbed in Aligarh, she won’t be counted as part of Etah list. On Thursday night, we received reports of four positive cases, taking the district's tally to eight.” “The four new cases are from one family of Ganeshpur village of Jalesar police limits. Earlier, two other family members were tested Covid-19 positive after coming in contact with patients from a Agra-based private hospital,” he said. The Agra private hospital has reported 93 coronavirus positive cases. All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to isolation facility, while samples of the entire village was being taken. In neighbouring Firozabad, 13 new coronavirus positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 124. Of these, 99 are active. Firozabad CMO Dr S K Dixit said, “Of the 13 patients, 11 are relatives of a 72-year-old US returnee who died on April 28 after been infected by the virus. They belong to Mohalla Mohan Nagar of North police limits. The rest of the two belong to Malviya Nagar and Parmeshwar Nagar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-yr-old-girl-of-etah-dies-in-aligarhs-jnmc-after-testing-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75496864.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||2 men fined for hunting mynas||Coimbatore: The forest department on Thursday slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 each on two men for poaching mynas, which are included in schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, at the Karamadai forest range.Karamadai range field staff had found C Muthusamy and K Nachimuthu, both hailing from Kannarpalayam near Karamadai, cooking myna meat. The duo confessed that they had trapped the birds.Meanwhile, the department used a drone on Friday to check poaching at Singanallur lake. A nine-member team including department officials and anti-poaching watchers controlled the drone from the lake bund to monitor 300 acres around the lake, which was declared an urban biodiversity conservation zone in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-fined-for-hunting-mynas/articleshow/75497517.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Homestays, hotels explore ways to rev up business||Coimbatore: Homestays and hotels in the district have been remaining shut since March 15. Having lost almost one and half months of peak summer season, many of them are expecting things to look up better at least during the monsoon season. They are mulling options like offering discounts on room rates, attracting families with more activities and promoting them more once more districts go into the green zone.While a few homestays in the Nilgiris are excited about the district becoming eligible to be declared a green zone any day now, they say their revenues or business is unlikely to pick up unless the borders open.Meetha Prabhu, of Destiny’s Farmstay in Avalanche, says, “Even if we are allowed to function by the district administration, business will not really pick up for us unless the borders open. Most of our guests are from other states and districts.”Tharini, senior manager, Briarwood Tea Estates, Valparai, says things wouldn’t be much different for Coimbatore as well. “Imagine the district manages to get into the green zone by mid-May. But any activity in the tourism sector is likely to pick up only in June, as we still expect some fear of travelling.”Pointing out that most of their guests are from Chennai, Kerala and Bengaluru, he says they will have to introduce some offers and discounts to attract them once the district and interstate borders open. “Since monsoons in Valparai are spectacular, we definitely hope to attract people.”SerendipityO Rsorts too plans to drop their prices, keeping an eye on economy. Its owner Ambareen Junaid says, “We will offer freebies to some of our loyal customers, while our restaurants will pass on any benefits that we receive to the customers.”Many homestays are planning to extend the activities they had planned for the summer holidays to the monsoon season. “We had planned some experiences like a romantic picnic by the lake and if the weather allows we will probably promote those activities through June and July,” says Prabhu.Briarwood Homestays is also likely to extend activities like trekking and visits to their tea factory, among others, to attract more families. “If schools remain shut for extended durations, some families might plan a trip,” says Tharini.However, the biggest challenge homestays say they will face is profitability. “We have been shut through the most of peak season, which usually gives us revenue to tide through the rest of the year. Unless we see a high volume of guests through the year, even breakeven is going to be a challenge,” says a homestay manager in Anaikatti.According to him, they are unlikely to call back most of their staff from North-East and other parts of the country unless business picks up to at least 40%. “Otherwise, we won’t be able to pay them full salaries.”Other challenge they face is the safety of their guests and staff. “While we have already decided on temperature checks before admitting our guests, we are waiting for some government guidance on other safety protocols we have to put in place,” says Tharini.Junaid also says they are awaiting more guidelines from the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). “We will also follow the procedures put in place by our district magistrate. This includes requesting a medical certificate from our guests and travel history before we confirm their reservation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/homestays-hotels-explore-ways-to-rev-up-business/articleshow/75497525.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No Covid-19 positive case in Kerala, two districts under red zone||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: No coronavirus positive cases were reported in Kerala on Friday. However, nine people were tested negative and discharged from the hospitals. Out of the total 497 cases reported, so far 392 people have been discharged from the hospitals after testing negative in the state. At present, 102 positive people are undergoing treatment in different hospitals of the state. As many as 21,499 people are under observation in the state of which 21,067 people are under home quarantine and 432 people are admitted in the isolation wards of various hospitals. The samples of 27,150 people were collected for testing of which 26,225 samples have come as negative. As part of sentinel surveillance, 1,863 samples were collected from the priority groups like health workers, policemen, volunteers and other people involved in the Covid-19 prevention activities. Of this 999 samples have been tested as negative. The remaining results are expected in a day. As part of augmented testing 3,128 samples taken from general on April 26 and was processed in 14 accredited government labs. Out of this 3,089 have turned negative. Four results declared positive till yesterday. 14 samples which the labs had recommended to retest is under processing. 21 samples were rejected. Ten more local bodies have been included in the hot spot list of the state. With the total hot spots in the state have become 80. The union health ministry in its fresh circular has put Kottayam and Kannur under red zone. Kasargod, Idukki, Kozhikode, Kollam, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Thiruvananthapuram, Allappuzha and Thrissur have been declared as orange zones. Ernakulam and Wayanad have been declared as green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-covid-19-positive-case-in-kerala-two-districts-under-red-zone/articleshow/75499104.cms||Rajiv G
May 2, 2020||Goa||Damodar ex-pupils serve food to Navelim homeless||Panaji: Former students and professors of Damodar College of Commerce and Economics have been serving breakfast to 400-odd homeless people accommodated at the Manohar Parrikar Indoor Sports Complex at Navelim. It has been 16 days since the initiative began on April 16. The initiative was started by Margao-based businessman Vivek Naik and associate professor Edwin Barreto. Many ex-students and professors, as well as sponsors from the local community, have been pitching in. “We ensure social distancing is maintained and don’t serve them food unless they’re wearing a mask. As of now, we have sponsors till May 3 but with the lockdown continuing, we are not sure till when we will be able to continue,” Barreto told TOI. The migrants, daily wage workers, stranded tourists as well as workers from shacks and hotels are fed with sheera, poha or upma for breakfast along with a potato vada, a banana and tea. “We distribute tokens to them and many come for a second round too. We also supply food to the staff and police on duty,” Barreto said, adding that a caterer has been engaged to provide the food. The meal cost comes to Rs 12,000 each day and the college encourages sponsors to pay the caterer directly. The government takes care of their lunch and dinner. needs Principal of the college Prita Mallya, who assisted in the work on Friday, said, “It’s a tragedy that on a day like this (Labour Day), so many daily wage workers have no work, nowhere to go and don’t know what the future lies in store for them. We hope the Covid-19 pandemic subsides quickly so that their economic activity can resume.” The college also handed over 500 masks tailored by Seema Dharani, MCom teacher, to medical superintendent of Hospicio Dr Ira Almeida and orthosurgeon Dr Sainath Vaingankar for distribution to those in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/damodar-ex-pupils-serve-food-to-navelim-homeless/articleshow/75498583.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 2, 2020||Agra||Cop with respiratory issues succumbs in S N Medical College, Covid-19 suspected||Agra: A 57-year-old constable, part of the anti-romeo squad at Kotwali police station, succumbed to what is being suspected as Covid-19 in S N Medical College, at around 10 am on Friday. Satish Chandra of Mainpuri was admitted on Thursday after he complained of breathlessness and anxiety. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (city) Rohan Botre said, “His Covid-19 test report is awaited. However, as a precautionary measure, we have asked all cops who came in contact with him to stay in quarantine until further notice.” Chandra was cremated following the Covid-19 protocol. Meanwhile, a constable posted in Sikandra police station who was put in isolation after he tested corona positive, shared a video on social media, alleging poor condition of the isolation centre at Sharad Group of Institutions in Sikandara. In the video, the constable claimed he has liver and heart ailments, but has been shifted to the quarantine-cum-isolation facility in the private college along NH-2, where there is no doctor or medical staff, and whose sanitation and hygiene is so poor that even a healthy person can get ill in just one day of stay. Furthermore, their meals, supplied in food packets, were being kept in the open under bright sunlight. “I was unwell last night, but there was no doctor to see me. I have locked myself inside the room, as I fear my condition will deteriorate if the facilities at the isolation facility don’t improve,” he said in the video. SP (city) Botre said, “After the video got viral, we visited the facility and found the allegations to be true. The revenue department has now been asked to take necessary steps to improve the condition of the facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-with-respiratory-issues-succumbs-in-s-n-medical-college-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75496885.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Agra||UP: Cancer patient shifted to isolation centre after he tests coronavirus positive second time||AGRA: A 63-year-old cancer patient from Hathras, who tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Noida two days ago, was shifted to Aligarh’s JNMC from his residence on Friday only after he again tested positive by local health officials. With this, the total tally of such cases rose to five in Hathras district. Talking to TOI, Hathras CMO Brijesh Rathore said the patient's family members approached them on Wednesday for a Covid test, as he had visited a Noida hospital for chemotherapy but his relatives did not inform that he had already tested positive there. “We have admitted the patient in the isolation ward of JNMC after receiving his report,” said Rathore. However, the family members claimed that they had informed the health officials about his Covid positive report on April 28. They shifted him only after receiving their own report on Friday. Now, all 25 members of his family who live in the same house have been placed under quarantine. District magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar said one kilometre radius of the house where the family lives has been sealed completely and only essential items will be home delivered in the area. He said thermal screening will be conducted door to door by health workers in the area. Last month, the state government had declared Hathras district free of coronavirus after patients suffering from the virus fully recovered and no new patient was infected with the virus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cancer-patient-shifted-to-isolation-centre-after-he-tests-positive-second-time/articleshow/75496876.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Exporters’ body pins hopes on outcome of PM’s meet on mining||Panaji: While chief minister minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state government was awaiting positive news on the mining front following a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association (GMOEA) said they sought clarity to resume mining activities in the state. Modi on Thursday held a meeting in New Delhi to deliberate on potential economic reforms in mining sector with an objective to boost the economy in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are very encouraged by the development and the urgent attention that the Prime Minister is giving to the mining sector. Mining in Goa is waiting eagerly for clarity on the situation, and once that is known, we will be able to contribute substantially to the economy,” president of the GMOEA Ambar Timblo, told TOI. Sawant, Goa governor Satya Pal Malik and mining companies have made representations to the Union government and have urged the Modi government to amend the relevant act to restart mining activities in the state. “Resumption of mining industry alone will generate substantial revenue of over Rs 3,500 crore annually, besides giving a much-needed boost to national foreign exchange reserves to the tune of approximately USD $800 million (around Rs 6,000 crore) at current index price levels, assuming a maximum extraction of 20 million tonnes,” GMOEA had said earlier. Mining came to a standstill in the state since March 16, 2018, following a February 2018 Supreme Court order to halt all mining activities. Industry stakeholders are of the opinion that its resumption is extremely vital for the overall socio-economic growth of the state and, in the present dire situation, it is even most critical. Stating that Goa is faced with an unprecedented unemployment outlook because of the mining ban, a situation that will be greatly exacerbated by the economic impact of fall in tourism and other industries due to the pandemic, GMOEA had said in a letter to Union mines’ ministry, “Recommencing of mining is absolutely necessary, else the economic fallout will be even worse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exporters-body-pins-hopes-on-outcome-of-pms-meet-on-mining/articleshow/75498623.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Two more policemen test positive||Chennai: Two more policemen tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Thursday, taking the total number of infections among khaki personnel in the city to six. An armed reserve police constable attached to the Triplicane police station and a policeman at the Tondiarpet police station, who tested positive, have been admitted at the Omandurar Government Hospital. The 30-year-old armed reserve policeman stayed with his family in Nesamony Nagar, Thirumullaivoyal. He works at the Triplicane police station and was deployed at the containment areas and to check people movement on the roads. His swab was taken for Covid-19 test as part of the sample tests being done for the force and it returned postitive on Thursday. The other policeman, attached to the Tondiarpet police station, was deployed in a containment zone in Tondiarpet and was the driver of the special patrol vehicle assigned there. He tested positive on Thursday as well. The 15,000-odd personnel who form the city’s police force are being tested in a phased manner. The department has segregated the personnel into — most vulnerable, vulnerable and least vulnerable — categories, based on the locations they were deployed in for duty. Personnel deployed near the Covid wards at government hospitals and quarantine blocks are identified as most vulnerable; ones out on the road regulating traffic are identified as vulnerable while the personnel working out of offices have been identified to be least vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-more-policemen-test-positive/articleshow/75498243.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Poders honk for state support, or will up pao price||Panaji: Terming the current situation alarming, the All Goa bakers’ and confectioners association has urged the government to intervene and provide support, failing which the association said, bakers will have no option but to raise the price of the Goan pao to Rs 5. In a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, the president of the association, Peter Fernandes said that many bakeries are on the verge of closing down due to shortage of firewood, lack of skilled labour and financial difficulties. “Anytime we try to increase the rate by Rs 1 only, there is a hue and cry by the so-called social workers, MLAs, NGOs and others. At least now we hope the government will come to our rescue. If there is no sign of help, then we shall believe in my-ship-and-my-order formula, and the rate will be increased from Rs 4 to Rs 5,” said Fernandes. The association said that workers had abandoned bakeries and tried to flee to their villages in other states while some workers are waiting to cross the border once the means are available. With the monsoon around the corner, bakeries have yet to store up on firewood and due to the lockdown, the cost of firewood has increased to Rs 20,000 per truck from what it was earlier at Rs 15,000. “At this time of crisis, we cannot pay salaries to the workers. We provide food and accommodation to the workers and the government should pay a support package for the survival of traditional bakeries,” Fernandes added. He also requested that authorities allow firewood to be transported from other states as well as within the state for bakers. He also urged the government to ensure the return of seafarers, some of who are also children of bakers. Fernandes has also sought relaxations for bakeries and bakery shops as not all are able to provide daily delivery services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poders-honk-for-state-support-or-will-up-pao-price/articleshow/75498589.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Agra||3,500 government tourist guides in Agra demand relief package||AGRA: About 3,500 tourist guides having Government of India licence to operate from across the nation have approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and tourism and culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel, demanding relief package due to the crises being faced by the tourism industry in wake of the unprecedented situation created by Covid-19 pandemic. Talking with TOI, nominated vice-president of the Tourist Guides’ Federation of India (TGFI) Shakeel Chauhan said this uncertainty is expected to continue for at least a year. The recent developments have hit the guide community very hard, with almost all of them likely to lose their entire year's income on account of the prevailing situation. There are only 3,500 regional-level guides in India and among them, 90% of them belong to the middle class. Under the present financial crisis, they do not have funds to survive. “Towards amelioration of the situation, we have requested the office of the Prime Minister and tourism minister to help us,” Chauhan said, adding that countries like the US, UK, Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand have already given relief to their guides. President of the Approved Tourists Guides Association (ATGA), Agra, Shamsuddin Khan said the licence to the guides are issued only after they agree with the ministry’s condition of not doing any other job and now, they have no source of income. “We are forced to face starvation and our families are in trouble,” he said. “Like other unorganised sectors, we have also urged the government to help us with financial package during the crises for the survival of our families as we don’t have a regular income, no job security, neither pension nor medical facility,” Khan said, adding that their survival is totally dependent on arrival of tourists from across the globe. But due to pandemic, everything has been shut and no one knows until when they will remain unemployed. Khan told TOI that they received a reply on online portal that the matter is under consideration as the ministry of tourism, Government of India, has already taken up the matter with the appropriate authority to consider the request of the Tourist Guides and Tourist Guide Associations. He added that they are hopeful to get justice by the government. According to regional-level Tourist Guides approved by the ministry of tourism, they have made a similar request to travel agents for clearing pending guide bills, which are to the tune of over Rs 2 lakh, at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3500-government-tourist-guides-in-agra-demand-relief-package/articleshow/75496926.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 2, 2020||Goa||Seafarers for quarantine facility: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that his government hasn’t taken any money from any individual seafarer for its paid quarantine facility. The CM, however, said that companies have expressed their willingness to pay the charges for their employees’ quarantine, and that there’s “nothing wrong with it”. Sawant told reporters that the state is providing free quarantine facility for those entering Goa from within India. “I have directed authorities not to charge individual seafarers,” he said. “We are not charging them individually, but companies are willing to bear the costs for paid quarantine.” He said that the government is paying hotels around Rs 2,000-2,500 per day for paid quarantine, and that there is nothing wrong if companies pay for their employees’ quarantine. Sawant also said that if any company brings in employees from outside the state, the employee concerned would have be kept in quarantine for at least three days till they’re tested and the result is out. He also said that anyone coming to Goa from outside the state will compulsorily have to undergo a Covid-19 test. Meanwhile, Sawant said that his government’s ratio of testing suspected persons to population is higher than other states. “We have tested almost 2,000 people for Covid-19 in Goa,” he said, adding that other states charge as much as Rs 4,000 for the test. The chief minister also said on Friday that public transport in the state will not resume for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-for-quarantine-facility-cm/articleshow/75498607.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty hoteliers sound caution, seek help||Udhagamandalam: The extended lockdown has struck at the roots of the tourism sector in the hills, with several hoteliers agreeing that it will be difficult to recover from the damage that’s been done by the pandemic. April and May are peak tourist season for hoteliers and taxi operators, the sectors most effected in Ooty by the lockdown. “The loss incurred by hospitality sector in the Nilgiris during the lockdown period is unimaginable. April and May are crucial months for us as income during these two months comprises 70% of the annual earnings by hoteliers here”, said N.Chandrasekar, secretary, Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association.Stating that no one could be blamed for the present situation, he said, “It will take at least one year to recover after the outbreak is over.”Recently, the association submitted a blueprint document for post Covid-19 operations in the Nilgiris to the district administration. The paper talks about precautionary measures to be taken by the hoteliers at various levels right from the front office to laundry activity. Details of incoming guests should be obtained prior to check-in and all precautionary steps right from thermal screening should be carried out.According to Chadrasekar, the tourism sector could be opened up in a phased manner by initially opening local restaurants and further by encouraging tourism within the state.“Gradually, we expect domestic tourism activity to restart by October. If the summer festival is shifted to September or October, the economy of the hotel sector will get a chance at survival”, Chandrasekar added. There are around 500 hotels in Nilgiris district apart from over 1,000 small-time hotels.The plight of taxi operators no different. Around 5,000 taxi operators are dependant on their earnings in April and May.“We don’t see any chance of normalcy for our livelihood in near future. It will take at least a year to get back to business”, said S Govardhan, president, Ooty tourist taxi and maxi cab operators welfare association. “We have made representations to the government to help us by paying our EMIs through insurance companies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-hoteliers-sound-caution-seek-help/articleshow/75497548.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Court asks Vellore authorities not to evict CMC patients from lodges||Chennai: Nearly 10,000 patients and their attendants, who had come to Vellore for treatment at Christian Medical College (CMC) but were facing eviction from their respective lodging houses, can breathe easy. The Madras high court has directed the Vellore district administration not to vacate them from the accommodations. Granting the relief to 9,911 outstation patients/ attendants till May 7, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar adjourned further hearing of the issue to May 7. The interim orders were passed on a plea moved by D W Karuna Miriyam, seeking to quash an order passed by the district administration directing patients who have rented lodges in the district to pay 50% of the rent. According to the petitioner, there are 9,911 patients who have been treated and discharged from CMC hospital. All of them need transportation facilities to return to their native places in the north and north-eastern parts of the country. While on March 31, the authorities passed an order prohibiting lodge owners from evicting such patients or collecting rents, on April 17 another order was passed asking such patients to pay 50% of the cost/rent. Since they can’t afford to pay the rent, they are likely to be thrown out of the lodges amid the lockdown, he added. The government submitted that it was under huge financial stress and that they have to attend to the needs of every person. Taking note of the facts and circumstances as well as the fiscal needs, the order has been passed. As the government advocate sought time to get instructions, the court passed the interim order and adjourned the hearing to May 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-asks-vellore-authorities-not-to-evict-cmc-patients-from-lodges/articleshow/75498262.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Test results of 60 seafarers negative for coronavirus||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the samples of 62 sailors were tested at Goa Medical College’s virology laboratory and 60 samples tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday. He said two samples will be retested due to a technical snag at the laboratory. Their reports are awaited. It was thanks to the dedication and continued efforts of doctors and other frontline workers, that the state has been listed as a green zone, the health minister said. “Let us continue to pursue this war against Covid-19 by following social distancing norms and the guidelines laid by the Central government,” he said. The state has not reported a Covid-19 case since April 3. As of Friday, 2,159 Covid tests have been conducted in the state. The health bulletin released by the directorate of health services said 38 persons were placed under facility quarantine. Out of 163 samples pending for testing, as many as 141 tested negative for Covid-19 and 22 reports were awaited at the end of the day. Four suspects were placed in isolation in hospital. Of the seven patients who have recovered from the virus, only one is yet to complete his seven days’ home quarantine. Six recovered persons have completed seven days each in facility and home quarantine, the medical bulletin stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/test-results-of-60-seafarers-negative-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75498621.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Aleixo: Increase salaries of Covid warriors||Margao: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has appealed to the state and Union government that “the salaries or emoluments of all our frontline warriors like government and private staff, doctors, nurses, sanitary workers, police, etc, who are involved selflessly in the fight against Covid-19 should be increased and not cut.” Lourenco also demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant request the prime minister for reduction in excise and VAT on fuel prices. “It will be a win-win station for the entire economy as it will lead to reduction of the prices of petrol and diesel and aid in lowering inflation, boost consumer spending, make Indian industry competitive and boost overall revenue benefiting the government, industry and economy,” he said. “Calls by people of India, including Goans for lowering retail prices and passing on some benefit of the lower crude prices, have grown louder, but have gone unheeded so far,” he stated in the press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-increase-salaries-of-covid-warriors/articleshow/75498625.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Indoor pollution from firewood poses higher Covid risk: Researchers||Chennai: If avoiding outdoors could protect people from Covid-19, researchers warn that staying indoors may not be any safer. Researchers said Indian slum dwellers will be exposed to extreme indoor air pollution while burning firewood or coal for cooking that could put them at greater risk for suffering respiratory infections and make them vulnerable to Covid-19. The issue of regular exposure to biomass burning for cooking gains significance as the people living in tiny shacks are unable to maintain social distance and forced to stay indoors, end up inhaling the smoke. The researchers from Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, and Maastricht University, Netherlands, said communities of slum dwellers, refugees, guest workers are most vulnerable as they often use solid fuels for cooking and heating inside their poorly ventilated houses. They said while women and young infants are routinely exposed to indoor pollutants during cooking, with total lockdown, the entire family is forced to stay indoors where men may also smoke. The observations were made based on several international studies that found a link between exposure to air pollution and Covid-19. “Pollution impairs the first line of defence of upper airways — cilia. A person living in an area with high levels of pollutants is thus more prone to develop chronic respiratory conditions and susceptible to any infective agent,” said the research paper published in Environmental Research journal. As there is a lack of evidence, the researchers suggested epidemiological studies to study the association between exposure to biomass smoke and Covid-19. One of the studies based on which the researchers made the observations is one done in Northern Italy, which indicated higher prevalence and mortality of Covid-19 could be partly associated with exposure to a higher level of air pollution. Another study in the United States found significant association between air pollution and Covid-19 deaths. An analysis during the outbreak of SARS in 2002 in China revealed that infected people living in more polluted regions were twice as likely to die as those in less polluted areas. Smokers too are at greater risk. A recent study in China on Covid-19 patients in hospitals found smokers were 14 times more likely to die as compared to non-smokers. According to studies by Chennai-based Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), household air pollution is believed to be responsible for 4.8 lakh deaths in India every year. Household air pollution, whose main source is burning of wood, coal and charcoal for cooking, is also a major cause of pneumonia, a leading cause of death in young children from low income families. It is also believed to contribute to low birth weight and stunting in children, increased blood pressure and other cardiovascular and respiratory effects in adults. India, including districts of Nagapattinam and Kallakurichi, is now part of a global study to assess the impact of LPG stove use on household air pollution and health. Kalpana Balakrishnan, director, ICMR Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Climate and Health, SRIHER, who is involved in the study, said, “The multi-country study, which is the first such trials conducted in India, is expected to have major implications for expanding and accelerating the use of clean cooking among rural populations and especially, among pregnant women in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/indoor-pollution-from-firewood-poses-higher-covid-risk-researchers/articleshow/75498275.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499364.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499362.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||3,000 expatriates likely to land at Mangaluru port or airport soon||MANGALURU: In all, 3,000 Indian expatriates seeking to return home from the world over will be landing either at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) or the Mangaluru Port soon, confirmed Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. She said that most of the expatriates returning to India were from countries in the Gulf. In addition to arriving in India at the MIA and the Mangaluru Port, many expatriates are also expected to sail into Indian shores at the Karwar Port in Uttara Kannada district. All the returning expatriates will be quarantined for a fortnight. Sindhu said that a preliminary meeting on helping stranded Indians back home had been convened two days ago during the course of which various methods to achieve the objective had been deliberated upon. “The MIA and Mangaluru Port are crucial to this mission, and the personnel there have a key role to play in securing the safety of passengers once they arrive. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) will be enforced once the expatriates arrive in the district. All the passengers will be subjected to a preliminary health screening after which they will be sent to their respective districts, where they will be kept in quarantine for a fortnight,” Sindhu told TOI. Sources in the government estimate that about 10,000 Karnataka residents are stranded in various countries across the globe, and have expressed their wish to return home. “Of these, we think around 3,000 will arrive in Mangaluru. Around 2,000 of these people, we think, are residents of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts,” the Dakshina Kannada DC said. Sindhu pointed out that nearly 2,500 Indian citizens, among whom 900 were from Karnataka, had registered themselves, seeking to return home. In addition to the energy-rich countries, several expatriates from other foreign nations too are travelling to Mangaluru, she said. Although officials at MIA said that they were yet to receive any official intimation on the impending arrival of the expatriates, they were confident of keeping the airport ready for the possibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3000-expatriates-likely-to-land-at-mangaluru-port-or-airport-soon/articleshow/75495837.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 2, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499363.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499366.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499361.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75499365.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Crane mows down 60-yr-old sweeper||Hyderabad: A 60-year-old sweeper died when a crane ran over her in Kothur while she was heading back home after work. The driver was reversing the vehicle and did not notice her. The accused driver is at large, said police. The deceased was identified as Gopa Yadamma, who worked in a plastic manufacturing firm in Kothur. “The crane was hired to carry out repair works at the unit,” said Kothur inspector N Chandrababu. “The driver did not see Yadamma behind the vehicle and ran over her. After the accident, he escaped. She died on the spot,” added the officer. A manhunt was launched to nab the accused, who was booked under Section 304-A of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crane-mows-down-60-yr-old-sweeper/articleshow/75498304.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets||CHENNAI: With the Centre giving a go ahead to reopen liquor shops, the state government is likely to take a call on Saturday about reopening Tasmac outlets. A cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown has already caused revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the exchequer. According to official sources, the state cabinet which will meet on Saturday will decide on reopening the shops. “The opinions of the health department and police would be sought before arriving at any decision,” a government official said. An order from the Union home ministry on Friday, has allowed sale of liquor in shops ensuring social distance of 6ft is maintained between individuals. While all standalone shops in urban areas can be opened, shops in rural areas can remain open irrespective of whether they fall under the category of essential or non-essential services. Multiple sources in the liquor business indicated that the shops would be reopened in a week’s time in Tamil Nadu. One source within Tasmac observed that green zones will see shops opening their shutters next week. “Technically, there is no distinction over reopening wine shops in red, orange or green zones. Moreover, the entire state fell under orange or red zone,” the official said. Meanwhile, a section of Tasmac employees sought the government to check the stocks before reopening the shops amid reports of pilferage of alcohol during the lockdown. “Only an intensified audit would reveal the volume of liquor that went missing during the lockdown,” a Tasmac source, who did not want their name revealed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-likely-to-decide-today-on-reopening-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75498284.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana blames Centre for coronavirus spread as six more test positive||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Friday lashed out at the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party for the Covid-19 outbreak in the country as the state reported six more positive cases. State health minister Eatala Rajender said BJP politicians were making baseless allegations against the government on fewer Covid-19 tests and hiding death toll, when they should actually take the blame for the crisis faced by the country. “It was the Centre that had permitted Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin. Ninety percent of the cases in Telangana are related to the event or their contacts,” Rajender told reporters. Rajender said that the government is ready to provide treatment for one lakh people, adding that the TRS government had conducted tests on all the attendees of the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. The health minister went on to explain that the BJP leaders should realize that the inter-ministerial teams sent by the central government had visited various hospitals, red zones and other places, before expressing their satisfaction on the measures taken by the government. “But the BJP local leaders are trying to politicise the issue and defame the government,” he added. So far, 464 persons have been discharged and 552 others (active cases) are being treated in various government hospitals. “If a person tests positive, his family is being tested for novel coronavirus. The state government is only against indiscriminate testing for Covid-19,” the minister said, adding that ICMR has clearly said only positive cases should be treated in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-blames-centre-for-virus-spread-as-6-more-test-ve/articleshow/75497622.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||More than 2.7k workers stranded in U’khand identified, will be sent to their homes||Nainital/Pithoragarh: Following the Centre's nod for movement of people stuck in different parts of the country, the district administrations across Uttarakhand scrambled to make arrangements for ferrying stranded people to their home states. Though a comprehensive data on the number of stranded workers who have been allowed to go back to their homes wasn’t available, TOI spoke to several officials across the state and found out that more than 2,700 people stuck in districts like – Haridwar, Almora, Champawat, Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Nainital, and Dehradun – are to be taken to their native states in the first batch. Pratyush Singh, city magistrate of Haldwani, and one of the nodal officers, who is in charge of facilitating movement of workers from Kumaon region, told TOI that they are initially focussing on those stranded people who are lodged in the relief camps across the state. “We have identified people who are lodged in relief camps and they will be the first ones to be taken to their native states. Most of the stranded people in Uttarakhand are from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (UP) and therefore, the different district administrations in Kumaon region are arranging travel and other facilities for them. Some buses have already left and the rest of them will leave on Saturday,” Singh said. While Haridwar district administration has identified over 1,200 people who have to be taken to their native states, the number stood at 523 in Almora, 429 in Champawat, 294 in Dehradun, 186 in Nainital, 82 in Pithoragarh, and 19 in Uttarkashi district. Singh added that the transport department is arranging buses to ferry the stranded people. “These buses will collect workers from different areas and then drop them at a location in the neighbouring state from where the administration of that state will drop them to their native districts and villages. The buses will then wait in those states to pick the migrants of Uttarakhand and take them back home,” he said. Similarly, officials in Garhwal said that all stranded people in the region will be brought to Haridwar and then, they will be taken to their home states. “People stuck in cities like Dehradun, Uttarkashi, and others will be brought to Haridwar and from there, they will be dropped to their home states,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, 82 migrant workers from UP and one from Rajasthan were moved from Pithoragarh on Friday. These workers had been lodged in district camps for more than a month. “The migrant workers of Bareilly (UP) were taken to Udham Singh Nagar by a bus under the guidance of an officer. After communicating with the officials of Bareilly district, they will be taken to their homes,” Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh, told TOI. The official added that the migrant worker from Rajasthan was taken to Haldwani from where he will be sent back to his home. “Medical inspection of these workers was conducted to ensure that they don’t become carriers of coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-than-2-7k-workers-stranded-in-ukhand-identified-will-be-sent-to-their-homes/articleshow/75497019.cms||Prashant Jha
May 2, 2020||Goa||South Goa district hospital may start operations soon||PANAJI: Three completed floors of the much-delayed South Goa district hospital have been handed over to the government by the Goa state infrastructure development corporation (GSIDC). However, it was not known as to when the early shifting from Hospicio hospital will take place. A health official said that they need at least a month before the entire activities from Hospicio are moved into the new premises. “We have handed over the completed floors to the government,” a GSIDC official said. The ground plus two more floors are yet to be completed. The GSIDC official said they will need few more months to complete the remaining work though some of their precious time was wasted due to the lockdown. The health official said it would be difficult during the monsoon period to shift. “It has to be done this month itself,” he said. Recently, chief minister Pramod Sawant had expressed his plan of setting up of a quarantine facility at the new hospital premises. The government also plans to have a teaching institute. Few months ago, health minister Vishwajit Rane had spoken about his plans to set up a private medical college attached to the new South Goa district hospital. The completion of the 500-bedded hospital will certainly bring a relief to South Goa people as they are made to rush to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim due to inadequacies at Hospicio. “Rane had proposed new government hospitals to be operated on a private-public partnership (PPP) basis including the new South Goa hospital. But, not much progress has been made on this front,” the health official said. In September 2019, the government shortlisted Price water house Coopers India and Ernst & Young as consultants to select the best model for running its new hospitals. The government was though criticised for its move to have private players for operating health care, the officer said, “It will not be easy to operate such a big hospital without any private help.” It may also delay starting of specialities at the hospital if government wants to do on its own, he said. Many are apprehensive about the government’s plan to go for PPP mode to provide health care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-district-hospital-may-start-operations-soon/articleshow/75498657.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad remains in red zone as cases surge||HYDERABAD: : With six new positive cases of Covid-19 reported in Telangana, especially in Greater Hyderabad, the Centre has put six districts of the state under the red zone or hotspot list. While nine districts have been declared as Covid-19 free districts under green zone, 18 districts are bracketed under the orange zone. Hyderabad is among the metros that continues to be in the red zone. According to the revised list, Hyderabad, Suryapet, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Vikarabad and Warangal Urban districts are in red zone. With nil positive cases in the last three weeks, nine districts — Peddapalli, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mahabubabad, Siddipet, Warangal Rural, Wanaparthy and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri — are in green zone. The rest of the districts are under the orange zone. The districts have been categorised into three zones based on the risk profile, positive and active cases. Green zones districts are those with zero confirmed cases till date or districts with no confirmed cases in the past 21 days. With regard to red zone or hotspot districts, the total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback are factored into before bringing them under the red zones. “The Centre will share the lists of zones on a weekly basis. The state may review and add red or orange zones depending on the situation and cases. But, it cannot lower the category zone like categorising orange to green,” the Centre said while issuing guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-remains-in-red-zone-as-cases-surge/articleshow/75497609.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||2 booked for taking toddy in ambulance||Hyderabad: Two persons were booked for carrying toddy in an ambulance in Balkampet area under SR Nagar police limits on Friday. According to police, Ganesh, the owner of the ambulance and resident of Sanathnagar and his associates were travelling from Dilsukhnagar towards their home. “They were caught at noon while they were taking toddy in the ambulance to avoid suspicion,” said SR Nagar inspector, Murli Krishna. The duo was transporting toddy for personal use, said police. The cops on duty seized 30 litres of toddy from their possession and booked them under Section 188 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Telangana Excise Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-booked-for-taking-toddy-in-ambulance/articleshow/75498312.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Banaskantha on recovery path as 10 more discharged||Palanpur: Ten more Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Palanpur Civil Hospital on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries in Banaskantha district to 14.Hospital’s executive officer Dr Jawahar Chandani said, “The patients belonged to Mafatpura, Gathaman, Rampura and Dodiya, Mavsari and Akoli villages in Vav taluka. They had tested positive in days between April 18 to 28.”Meanwhile, one Faiyaz Lukman from Majadar village near Vadgam, who had come from Mumbai with 15 others on April 24, tested positive on Friday. He and others were caught by Chhapi police when they had come hiding in a truck.Sixteen people are still under treatment in the district while one person died.The patients who were discharged include Parvati Dalwadiya (18), Sohail Bhoraniya (18), Dargabhai Chaudhary (23), Prakash Vankar (20), Dheghabhai Ven (24), Ishwar Valadiya (25), Hetalben Chauhan (22), Lilaben Bubadiya (41), Devjibhai Chauhan (27) and Ishwar Parmar (35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banaskantha-on-recovery-path-as-10-more-discharged/articleshow/75495914.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Quepem civic body levies late fees, shop owners livid||Quepem: Shopkeepers who have been leased out spaces by the Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) are upset for being charged two months rent, including the lockdown period, and for also levying late fees for the month of March. It may be recalled that the council at its last meeting held in April had decided not to charge the rented shops any late fees. Audhoot Sukhtanker, who has rented a QMC shop for many years, said, “When I went on April 29 to the council’s office to pay the shop rent for the month of March, I was shocked after being told that I must also pay the rent of April. I was also charged late fees for March,” he said. He questioned how the council could charge late fees for non-payment of the March rent when the the lockdown was imposed from March 22. The council’s office was shut since then, he said. “Infact, the council should have exempted us from paying rent for both months rent since our establishment was shut during the lockdown period,” he said. Another shopkeeper, Subhash Naik, said that while the government itself is requesting landlords not to charge rent to tenants during the lockdown period, the council is levying rent and late fees for this period. “This is unexpected and not fair,” he said. When contacted, QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik clarified that the staff had collected the late fees as it was set in the computer system. “We will refund the late fees to those who paid, and a decision on whether to exempt rent during the lockdown period will be taken during the next council meeting,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-civic-body-levies-late-fees-shop-owners-livid/articleshow/75498658.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Margao salon owners plead for financial aid||Margao: The Salon Owners Association of Margao has petitioned chief minister Pramod Sawant to work out a financial package for its members who are facing hardships owing to the lockdown, and also considering the off-season (monsoon period) that lies ahead. In a letter signed by over 20 owners of hair cutting saloons, the association has urged the government “to work out something which will benefit us during the lockdown period.” They have suggested that the government offer them interest free financial package, either through government funds or bank loans, which they could repay once their businesses bounce back. The letter points out that many of the salon owners have availed of loans from banks or other financial institutions, and as they are now sustaining losses owing to the current lockdown situation, they would be unable to repay those loans. Besides, the letter points out that as most of the salons employ migrants in their units, a large number of them are stranded in the state, and thus the saloon owners have to take care of these employees, besides having to sustain their own families. “It will be all the more difficult for salon owners to survive during the off season that lies ahead,” Laurel Abranches of the association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-salon-owners-plead-for-financial-aid/articleshow/75498656.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t demolish Prabhas’ farmhouse: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: In a reprieve to ‘Bahubali’ fame, actor Prabhas, the Telangana high court has directed the government to not demolish his farmhouse (spread over 2,083 square yards) at Raidurg near Hi-Tec City. However, it also ruled out the actor’s plea for immediate possession of the property. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice P Naveen Rao asked district collector of Rangareddy to retain possession of the land with the state. Prabhas contended that he was aggrieved at the way the state was interfering with the possession of his property which he bought lawfully. But, the state argued that the land was part of a bigger litigation, known as CS7 of 1958 covering the entire Raidurg area, and hence possession cannot be delivered to the actor.  The bench also did not hand over possession of the land to the actor. The state, however, maintained that it cannot regularise the land. In the meantime, Prabhas approached a civil court in Kukatpally last month and obtained an injunction against Serilingampally tahsildar from taking any action. The trial court granted an injunction order restraining the revenue authorities from interfering in the plot and its possession. The state then approached HC again, asking it to restrain the civil court and charged it with acting against the previous order of the HC. “Our grievance was two-fold,” argued state special counsel S Sarat Kumar. “The trial court order is against the HC order. And now, the actor is trying to forcibly enter into the property in an unlawful manner,” Sarat said. To this, the bench directed the trial court to hear the plea filed by the state to vacate the injunction plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dont-demolish-prabhas-farmhouse/articleshow/75497634.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Surat||Positive balances negative in Surat||Surat: The number of Covid-19 patients discharged in the city shot up to 92 on Friday with 26 more allowed to go home from New Civil Hospital (NCH) and Covid care centre after their repeat tests were negative.Health officials said that majority of the patients discharged were asymptomatic and that their reports are negative after remaining under the quarantine centre for 14 days.However, 27 more tested positive for the deadly virus while one 45-year-old man from Bhestan succumbed in NCH. Bhupat Nishad, a resident of Ganeshnagar locality in Bhestan, was also acutely anaemic and he had tested positive on Thursday.The death toll in the city has risen to 25 now while the number of positive cases stand at 621. While three patients are on oxygen support, five patients with respiratory problems have been put on BiPAP machine and one is on life support system.Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that Limbayat zone alone accounts for 241 cases out of the total 621 followed by Varachha (A) that has 95 cases. In Surat district, two more positive cases were reported on Friday. According to district health department, Vinod Surat, 36, a resident of Dihen village of Olpad taluka and Devnath Pankhe, 55, a resident of Pali village of Choryasi taluka , tested positive. With these two cases, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Surat rural area touched 30. Till now, one patient has died. In all, 1,225 people are under home qurantine in Surat district. "There are total 22 active clusters in Surat district which include Boriya, Asnabad, Andhatri, Haldva, Mahuvariya, Anaval, Kharvan, Badtal, Gangpur, Kvas, Kevdi, Dungar, Sevani, Juna Kakarapar, Chokhvada, Khodamba, Kani, Sandhiyer, Devadh, Zankhvav, Pali and Dihen,'' said an official. There was some good news for other south Gujarat districts as not a single was reported from Bharuch, Tapi, Navsari, Valsad and Dang on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/positive-balances-negative-in-surat/articleshow/75495941.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||25,000 Indians in Dubai register to fly home||HYDERABAD: Some 25,000 Indian nationals in Dubai registered their names with the embassy to return to the country. Consulate General of India (CGI), Dubai, announced: “We are getting several thousand hits on the website for registration and have already registered close to 25,000 people. We request everyone to not rush to register today itself. The database will be up for several days.” Workers from Telangana in Dubai & Kuwait have expressed a desire to return as they have been out of jobs or are not being paid by their employers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25k-indians-in-dubai-register-to-fly-home/articleshow/75498362.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 2, 2020||Surat||Migrants see khaki men in new avtaar each time in Surat||SURAT: Coronavirus has brought about complete change in perception about police in the minds of people. Thus, it was no surprise that the cops, who arranged food for lakhs of migrant workers in the city for over a month, are now working overtime to ensure transportation for them so that they can reach their native states. Police are getting private transport buses at affordable rates to send the desperate workers to their homes in Odisha, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand. Many migrants have already left for their hometowns from Pandesara, Sarthana and Amroli in 200 buses arranged for them by cops from Thursday onwards. Police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt had got approval from director general of police Shivanand Jha to bring buses from other cities to Surat to overcome their shortage to facilitate travel of migrant workers. "Booking a bus is not easy for workers in lockdown. Hence, police, industrial associations and private bus transporters are jointly arranging buses for them. We have limited number of private buses in the city. This is why we got approval from DGP office to bring the buses from other cities to Surat," Brahmbhatt told TOI. "Over 200 buses from the city that left with passengers got stuck in Saurashtra and north Gujarat because of lockdown. These buses are likely to return here by tomorrow," said Dinesh Anghad, president of Akhil Gujarat Pravasi Vahan Sanchalak Mahamandal (AGPVSM). Police are arranging the buses for migrant workers with AGPVSM’s support. "Our target is to send over 1,000 buses to different states in the first phase. The price for a ticket is only Rs3,500. It is reasonable amount considering permission for limited number of passengers in and long journey," said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Some of the biggest kitchens in Sachin GIDC, Sarthana and Amroli for migrant workers were started due to the efforts of police, who encouraged social service groups to come to their help. "Police tried their level best to keep the migrant workers stay put at one place. Now, we are trying to help those who want to go home as per the new guidelines to reach their destinations safely,” Brahmbhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-see-khaki-men-in-new-avtaar-each-time/articleshow/75495983.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 2, 2020||Goa||Two sanitation workers felicitated||Margao: The sanitary workers have been coming in for a lot of appreciation and admiration from the general public for their services amidst the lockdown. The National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU), its non-executive club (NEC), and Konkan Railway colony, Margao, felicitated the Margao municipality’s waste collection worker Yellawa Madar and her husband Shivanand at a small function held recently near the Konkan Railway community centre. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-sanitation-workers-felicitated/articleshow/75498663.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Fish vendors in Bicholim shifted again||Bicholim: Bicholim municipal authorities on Friday shifted the local fish vendors from the vicinity of Shantadurga High School to behind the KTC bus stand, after they noticed that neither the vendors nor the customers were following social distancing norms. Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) chief officer Vivek Naik said the stalls had to be shifted to avoid crowding. Meanwhile, BMC’s former councillor Rajan Kadkade said the municipality should have instead shifted the fish vendors to the original fish market area as the space was sufficient to maintain social distancing and could also be sanitised on a daily basis.  “ The parking space in the market area can be utilised for parking, but vendors will not be shifted to the main market. We are planning decentralised mini-markets,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-vendors-in-bicholim-shifted-again/articleshow/75498673.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrant family in Telangana told to leave house after row||HYDERABAD: A migrant family of a four-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped by a cook of a private college in March, has reportedly been asked to leave their temporary dwelling in Uppal by the landlord after a quarrel. Medipally police on Friday said the row was not over payment of rent and hence no case was filed. Cops said the family wanted to go back to West Bengal and demanded money from the landlord, leading to a quarrel. They were later counselled and sent to a shelter home. The family had no money and could not find work due to lockdown. On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the family was reportedly asked to leave the house by the landlord, who works as a supervisor in the private college.  “The family approached us late in the night when they had nowhere to go during the lockdown.,” said Ch Achyuta Rao, founder-president of Balala Hakkula Sangham. Rao recalled that soon after the rape case in March, the supervisor did give the family shelter at his home in Uppal. “However, he took away their savings, claiming that he had to spend the money while taking them to the police station and hospital, etc,” Achyuta Rao alleged. When contacted, Medipally inspector Anji Reddy said the family was keen on going back to West Bengal and tried to get money from the landlord. “We are yet to get full details of the issue. We counselled them and shifted them to the shelter home,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrant-family-told-to-leave-house-after-row/articleshow/75497651.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three more corporation wards now in red zone||AHMEDABAD: Three more wards Saraspur, Gomtipur and Asarwa were added to the ‘red zone’ in the city, taking the total of such wards to nine. Khadia, Jamalpur, Danilimda, Behrampura, Shahpur and Dariapur were earlier classified as red zones. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that with their number of cases increasing, these wards were added to the red zone. He said that the AMC has on Friday made masks compulsory for vendors and distributed 20,270 masks and over 4,054 bottles of hand sanitizer to vendors. Banners telling people to take precautions have been put on the handcarts of 327 vegetable vendors. From Friday, 104 teams of AMC are ensuring that the new rule for mandatory masks is complied with. In the first two hours, the 104 teams fined 1,326 vendors and collected fines totalling Rs 3.84 lakh, while four units were also sealed. Nehra called on people to pledge to wear masks, maintain social distancing whenever they go out and wash their hands properly whenever they return home or to the office. Nehra said the city so far has conducted 25,996 laboratory tests and 2,038 tests through kits. Thus with 28,034 tests, the city has conducted 4,672 test per million people. He said the AMC on Thursday took 144 samples from vegetable vendors, milkmen, shopkeepers and pharmacists and seven of these tested positive. So far 124 such persons, who would potentially infect large numbers of people due to their work, have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-more-corporation-wards-now-in-red-zone/articleshow/75497793.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Recall thermal guns used for testing: Goacan||Panaji: Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has called for the immediate replacement of thermal guns (medical infrared thermometer) being used in various government departments as the product supplied is in violation of the packaged commodities rules (PCR). Goacan has stated that after examining the box in which the thermometer is packed, they discovered that it has been manufactured in China and does not mention the mandatory importer’s name and address. “This will compromise the health and safety of the consumer at a very crucial juncture of the battle against Covid-19 in Goa,” they said. In a letter to the department of legal metrology’s controller, Prasad Shirodkar, Goacan has demanded that they book the supplier for offences committed under the packaged commodities rules. Goacan have requested to seize all undistributed medical infrared thermometers with the packaging, and recall all such devices with packaging from government and private offices. They have also sought that the authorities should contact the supplier to replace the existing numbers of the medical infrared thermometers with proper ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recall-thermal-guns-used-for-testing-goacan/articleshow/75498666.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Business||IRDAI piggybacks Ramayan, Mahabharat popularity||Hyderabad: Piggybacking on the popularity of epic mythological TV series Ramayan and Mahabharat, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), seized the opportunity provided by their rerun during lockdown to drive home the message about the need to be adequately covered by insurance. The insurance regulator spent around Rs 1.5 crore on airing TV commercials to generate awareness about the importance of insurance during April when the blockbuster serials were beamed during the lockdown. While initially, IRDAI agreed to shell out around Rs 75.5 lakh for running its TVCs generating awareness about life insurance and health insurance for 13 days in April, the regulator decided to extend the campaign for another 13 days due to the extension of lockdown amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. As per the information available on the IRDAI website about the minutes of meeting held on April 9, “It was informed that due to increasing viewership of the epic serials, there is a huge demand for the commercial time…Looking into the increase in the number of the affected persons due to Covid-19 pandemic and in the interest of the public, it is proposed to extend the campaign for 13 more days, viz 26 episodes …” During lockdown, Prasar Bharati, the government broadcaster and owner of DD channels, reported a record viewership due to the popular epic series of Ramayan and Mahabharat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-piggybacks-ramayan-mahabharat-popularity/articleshow/75497659.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Amaravati||Nine hours uninterrupted power for farmers in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the energy department to provide nine-hour uninterrupted power supply during the day to agriculture pump sets during the next Rabi season. The CM asked the officials to complete all pending works to provide day-time power to the agriculture sector at the earliest. The CM reviewed the progress of energy projects with the senior officials on Friday. During the review, the officials told the CM that the system has been upgraded to provide day-time supply through 81% feeders. They said only about 58% feeders were equipped to handle the load during the last Khariff and it will be improved to 81% by the forthcoming Khariff season. The officials said that the works in about 19 feeders were hit due to the shortage of material due to the lockdown. The chief minister, however, asked the officials to ready the plans to complete the pending works by the next Rabi season at any cost. The CM also enquired about the status of the planned 10,000 mw solar park. The officials explained that they would start the work by May-end. The CM directed the officials that their plans should be in such a manner that they should overcome all unforeseen circumstances to reach the targets. The CM said that works should be put on fast track to achieve the targets. Principal advisor to the government Ajeya Kallam, AP Transco CMD Dr N Srikanth, Genco chairman Saiprasad, AP Genco MD Sridhar and other senior officials were present during the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/9-hrs-uninterrupted-power-for-farmers/articleshow/75496009.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt to release due incentives to MSMEs||Amaravati: In a move aimed at reviving the economy post lockdown, the state government has decided to release all incentives due to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) of the last six years. Further, the government has also decided to waive power charges for MSMEs for three months— April, May and June. Major sectors like textile will benefit from this move. The decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday. The CM directed officials to release the dues to MSMEs in two parts— in May and June. He further asked the industries department to extend financial assistance to MSMEs at a low rate of interest. The CM said that the government will take measures to help the textile sector after observing the Centre’s take on the sector. Industries and IT minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy said, “The CM has agree to completely waive off power charges of MSMEs for three months which accounts for Rs 188 crore.” Mekapati added that the decision will benefit 72,531 micro enterprises and 24,252 small industries. The industries minister further said that the TDP had not paid its dues to the MSME sector during its regime. The TDP has not cleared Rs 43 crore for 2014-15, Rs 70 crore for 2015-16, Rs 195 crore for 2016-17, Rs 207 crore for 2017-18 and Rs 313 crore for 2018-19, industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy said. The minister further said that the government will clear Rs 905 crore including Rs 77 crore for the 2019-20 financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-release-due-incentives-to-msmes/articleshow/75479528.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Will Lockdown 3.0 arrest further spread of Covid-19?||AHMEDABAD: As on May 1, Gujarat with 4,721 total cases and 3,749 active cases is on second place in India after Maharashtra. Even in deaths related to Covid-19, the state has recorded 236 casualties of positive patients which is also second only to Maharashtra in India. As third phase of national lockdown is announced on Friday, how has the state fared during previous two phases? Analysis of the figures till May 1 reveal that compared to lockdown 1.0, the rate of new cases and deaths has decreased in Gujarat. Based on state health & family welfare statistics, Gujarat had 33 positive cases and 1 death reported till March 24. The first lockdown was observed from March 25 to April 14. During this period, the state added 617 cases and 27 deaths. Compared to the starting point, the figures were 18.7 and 27 times higher. Likewise, the second phase of lockdown started from April 15 and will end on May 3. Data till evening of May 1 reveal that the state added 4,071 cases and 208 deaths in 15 days. Compared to the figures till end of lockdown 1.0, the multiplication factors came down to 6.3 and 7.4 respectively. Among the three major cities of Gujarat, Vadodara recorded the most difference. It had 6 cases pre-lockdown in which 107 cases were added during lockdown 1 and 176 during lockdown 2.0 (till March 30), thus bringing the multiplication factor down from 17.8 to 1.5. Compared to that, Surat has reported a rising trend – compared to a sixfold rise in cases in lockdown 1.0, in lockdown 2.0 the Diamond City has reported 13.6 times more cases. However, compared to other states and national average, Gujarat lags behind in reducing cases. While cases went down from 19 times to 2 times from lockdown 1.0 to 2.0 in India, Delhi reduced it from 51 to 1.3. A city-based epidemiologist said the impact of lockdown in terms of effectiveness for arresting growth of Covid-19 is of interest. “We still need more data to validate whether the lockdown is the only factor – several states have adopted aggressive testing, whereas in some states, the measures were stringent,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-lockdown-3-0-arrest-further-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/75497789.cms||Parth Shastri
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: AIMIM corporator booked for assaulting cops||HYDERABAD: Madannapet police has registered a case against an AIMIM corporator for allegedly assaulting police constables. On April 30, two cops were deputed near a place of worship, when Murtuza Ali and a few others picked up an argument with cops over preventing people from offering prayers at the site. He allegedly assaulted police constable A Shyam Prasad. The incident went viral on social media. A case was registered under Section 353 of the IPC. When contacted the Ali said, “The two constables were unnecessarily creating nuisance and insisting that the management lock the premises.” Watch Hyderabad: MIM corporator assaults cops, booked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-corporator-booked-for-assaulting-cops/articleshow/75497676.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Provide 2BHK homes to evicted villagers: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of the high-handed behaviour of revenue authorities of Siddipet district in evicting villagers for construction of Kondapochamma reservoir, the high court on Friday directed a district judge in Siddipet to record statements of evicted persons and take photo of their demolished houses. The bench also directed the collector and RDO to provide double bedroom houses to the evicted persons or appear before the court on May 7. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy said the judge should record the statements under section 164 of Cr PC. It was hearing the pleas of villagers of Mamidyala and Bailampur in Mulug mandal of Siddipet district. The bench said the government can go ahead with the inauguration only after duly compensating the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hc-provide-2bhk-homes-to-evicted-villagers/articleshow/75497663.cms||M Sagar Kumar
May 2, 2020||Surat||Sumul’s cow colostrum powder to boost nCov immunity||Surat: The Surat District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Limited (SUMUL) has developed ‘cow colostrum powder’ an immunity booster to protect Covid-19 positive patients and also arrest the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Named as the ‘Sumul Immune Power’, the powdered supplement made from colostrum — a milky fluid released from bovine udders shortly after they have given birth — aims at enhancing immunity of the patients already fighting the deadly infection.Loaded with immunoglobulins, an antibody used by our immune system to fight bacteria and viruses, the bovine colostrum also contains nutrients that help fight disease by boosting immunity.Official sources said that Sumul has decided free distribution of the powder to Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the city and the district. It will also give it to frontline healthcare staff, including doctor, nurses, ward boys, drivers and also the policemen holding the fort against the global pandemic.Chairman of Sumul, Raju Pathak told TOI, “The cow colostrum powder has been made in consultation with medical experts and technocrats. Since there is no medicine for coronavirus, we have to depend on natural immune boosting supplements to fight the infection.”Pathak added that the immune power Sumul has come up with contains antibodies called immunoglobulins. “This unique protein is used by our immune system to catch virtually any type of virus, bacteria or cell which the body deems as foreign and neutralises it before it causes illness or death,” he added.Marketing manager of Sumul, Manish Bhatt said, “Twenty grams of the powder taken on an empty stomach with lukewarm milk is enough to boost the immune system. Sumul has launched the product, which will be first distributed among Covid positive patients, frontline healthcare and police staff in the city. We hope that the cow colostrum powder will bolster immunity and reduce the chances of death among patients.”PointersTotal well-being in a tinWorldwide research considers bovine colostrum as a medicineSumul powder has a shelf-life of one year It contains albumin, globulin and gamaglobulinProduct is also rich in vitamin A,D,E and K It also has 300 types of enzymes to increase gut health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sumuls-cow-colostrum-powder-to-boost-ncov-immunity/articleshow/75496014.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||Armed forces to hold fly-past for corona warriors||NEW DELHI: The Indian armed forces will on Sunday conduct fly-past across the country, illuminate warships in coastal areas, undertake band displays and use helicopters to shower petals on hospitals to express gratitude to all “corona warriors”, from doctors and nurses to policemen and sanitation workers. Fighter jets and transport aircraft from the IAF will conduct fly-past from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and from Dibrugarh to Kutch, as part of the “special activities” planned by the armed forces, said chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday. The US Air Force and Navy, incidentally, have been holding such “aerial salutes” over American cities through their “Thunderbirds” and “Blue Angels” aerobatic teams on the directions of President Donald Trump. The “plan of action” in India was finalised at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, with national security advisor Ajit Doval, Gen Rawat and the three Service chiefs, General M M Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. “We wish to convey our gratitude to all corona warriors, who are working hard to keep us safe, and the citizens of our nation,” said Gen Rawat, flanked by the three chiefs at a press conference on Friday. But the move invited some criticism from many veterans, who said it was “a needless drama” detracting the armed forces from their task of protecting the frontiers, maintaining operational readiness and helping the civil administrations in the ongoing national effort against the Covid-19 pandemic. “Wonder who comes up with these ideas,” said Lt-General Prakash Menon (retd). Major-Gen Birender Dhanoa, tweeted, “Why are the armed forces being used as the official cheerleaders to express gratitude to the tireless corona health care workers, doctors, support staff and nameless others on May 3. This was not the military I served in. Just saddened and disappointed that this will happen.” Watch Covid-19 in India: Armed forces to hold flypast for corona warriors on May 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/armed-forces-to-hold-fly-past-for-corona-warriors/articleshow/75499132.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Monitoring programme for patients||GANDHINAGAR: The department of health has initiated a project named ‘Tele Monitoring Programme’ to provide guidance to critical Covid-19 patients in Gujarat. Even as doctors, nurses and other medical personnel have been working round the clock to treat Covid-19 patients, especially those with co-morbid conditions, the health experts have been providing online guidance to critically ill and serious patients. Dr Atul Patel, Dr Parthiv Mehta, Dr R K Patel, Dr Bipin Amin and many other experts have been giving their opinions after video conference with the patients and guiding them accordingly. Principal secretary, health department, Jayanti Ravi, has been supervising this programme. In all, 24 children, three pregnant women and 68 senior citizens, who were critically ill due to Covid-19, have availed the benefits of the `Tele Monitoring Programme’ and recovered successfully. Out of 24 children who recovered, 16 are from Ahmedabad, two from Bhavnagar and Banaskantha each, one from Chhota Udepur and Gandhinagar and two from Surat. Out of those senior citizens, 34 are from Ahmedabad, two from Bhavnagar and Patan and three from Gandhinagar and Mahisagar, seven from Surat, four from Anand, eight from Vadodara, one each from Chhota Udepur, Kutch, Gir-Somnath, Narmada and Rajkot. The hospitals at district level are also a part of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monitoring-programme-for-patients/articleshow/75497797.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Surat||SHB exports another Rs 300 crore worth Surat diamonds to HK||SURAT: “It is a matter of great pride for the Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) to serve the diamond industry in the times of lockdown,” said CEO of SHB, KK Sharma, while facilitating the second consignment of polished diamonds to the tune of over Rs 300 crore from Surat to Hong Kong via Mumbai on Friday. “We sent 17 export parcels of polished diamonds valued at over Rs 300 crore belonging to the three leading diamond firms in Surat. The parcels have been sent through a private chartered flight from Surat to Mumbai and that the parcels will be shipped in the international cargo flight to Hong Kong in a day or two” said Sharma. Sharma further said that in two days, SHB has facilitated about Rs 500 crore worth of polished diamond exports to Hong Kong. Industry sources said that the district administration has given the permission for the inter-state transport of the polished diamonds via road from Surat to Mumbai. However, with the extension of the lockdown period till May 17 along with the pandemic situation in Mumbai the Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) is not likely to open up any time soon. Regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya said, “Only SHB is working in Surat. Not a single parcel is going from Mumbai. At present, there are some export commitments for online buyers in Hong Kong and other parts of the country, which have to be fulfilled by the diamond companies.” Navadiya further said that diamond manufacturing units will not be able to function with the extension of the lockdown period till May 17. However, the diamond companies will have to clear their inventories of polished diamonds over export commitments, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shb-exports-another-rs-300cr-worth-surat-diamonds-to-hk/articleshow/75496034.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Narasaraopet municipal commissioner shifted, new chief takes charge||Amaravati: A day after removing Kurnool municipal commissioner Ravindra Babu, the state government on Friday shifted Narasaraopet municipal commissioner A Sivareddy for allegedly failing to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the town. Over 120 positive cases have been reported from Narasaraopet. Kavali municipal chief K Venkateswaralu has been posted as the new commissioner of Narasaraopet. Sources said the state government is not happy with the performance of district collectors in Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool. All three districts have witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in recent days, though the numbers in Krishna have seen a dip in the last few days. However, the government is unlikely to shift the officers at this stage. Sources said top officials have told the chief minister that sudden shifting of the collectors might paralyse the administration. IAS officer Harinarayana, who was sent as additional special officer to Kurnool, is believed to have sent a confidential report to the chief secretary stating that the administration had failed to act in coordination, resulting in the spread of Covid-19. As cases in Guntur increased, the state government deputed health department advisor Kamal Raj as special coordinator. Having senior rank police officers in Guntur and Vijayawada has also complicated the job of rank-promotee district collectors. While Vijayawada city police commissioner Dwaraka Tirumala Rao is an additional DG rank officer, Guntur city has a DIG rank SP. The civic chiefs in Kurnool and Narasaraopet bore the brunt as senior officials could not lead the team from the front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/narasaraopet-municipal-commissioner-shifted-new-chief-takes-charge/articleshow/75496027.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Two more Covid-19 positive cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka on Friday doubled its tally of Covid-19 positive patients compared to the lone positive case reported on Thursday. With this, 18 residents of the district are now affected by the pandemic. The latest addition to the district’s tally is a 69-year-old-male from Bantwal and 62-year-old male from Boloor in Mangaluru. The district also had six cases of Covid patients from outside but treated at designated hospital here. While the Bantwal patient (P-578) is a secondary contact of P-390, the district’s first Covid-19 victim, the patient from Boloor (P-579) is the husband of P-536, who was the 16th resident of the district to test positive. With the death of P-409 on Thursday evening, the district now has 9 active cases. The district also has seen the discharge of 12 patients, including four from Kasaragod, and one each from Bhatkal and Karkala in Udupi, DC Sindhu B Rupesh, said. Out of the active cases from the district, the husband-wife duo from Uppinangady are likely to be discharged either this weekend or early next week. The district has recorded three deaths to the pandemic, and they are women (P-390, P-432 and P-409) from Kasba village in Bantwal town and taluk. In a related development, Dr Sudhir Chandra Sooda, district health and family welfare officer, Udupi said all 18 staff of toll booths at Thekkatte and Sasthan in the district, tested for Covid-19 have turned out to be negative. These staff came under the scanner of health authorities after a Covid-19 positive patient crossed these booths in a dates laden truck enroute Mandya. They had also sealed a bathroom at a petrol station where he had a bath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/75499136.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Golconda locals vent ire over erratic water supply||HYDERABAD: Residents of the Golconda area are beginning to feel the heat of the summer as they are getting water only once in three days. “We received water for just 40 minutes yesterday after two days,” said Mohammed Habeebudin, a resident of the Chota Bazar area. He said people with illegal connections were getting a better deal as due to their nexus with politicians. “Selected people were given water for even 5-6 hours in the same two-day time span,” alleged Habeebudin. His concerns were echoed by another resident Md Irfan. “Even though I am among the fortunate few to be getting water every alternate day, this is only for 15minutes and that too with low pressure,” he wondered. Haji, another local, said they are contacting private tankers to meet the demand. “But if this trend begins so early in summer, we will be paying through our teeth for the next two months as temperatures peak.” Sources in the Hyderabad Water Supply and Sewerage Board, however, denied any reduction in the supply. “The Golconda area is being serviced well. There is no drop in the ground water table either,” said one source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/golconda-locals-vent-ire-over-erratic-water-supply/articleshow/75497687.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Government plans 108 ambulance in each of Andhra Pradesh’s 676 mandals||VIJAYAWADA: At a time when its services are required the most, the 108 ambulance service seems to be faltering. Started as a free service in 2005 by Byrraju Foundation — which was then owned and managed by disgraced Satyam founder Byrraju Ramalinga Raju — at Bhimavaram town in West Godavari district, 108 soon spread its wings across the length and breadth of the state. The technology for the service was developed and managed by a company called Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI). The responsibility of managing the 108 service was given to GVK business group after the 2009 Satyam scam, in which Ramalinga Raju, his brother Rama Raju, and some senior executives of the company were accused of manupulating the IT company’s books to the tune of Rs 14,162 crore. “108 service has 400 ambulances, but currently around 300 are operational. The stalled ones need to be repaired with new apares and tyres. Things were supposed to get better as Aurobindo Pharma was supposed to take over the management of the 108 service, but the process might now get delayed due to the lockdown,” a source said. It has been learnt that the government is planning to boost the 108 service by adding more vehicles. Over 400 new ambulances have already been procured and are ready to be deployed. The new ambulances are parked near the NTR University of Health Sciences in Vijayawada. Due to fewer number of ambulances on call, the response time for each vehicle has increased to around 20 minutes in urban areas, and nearly an hour in the rural areas. KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (health), said the state government is working to station a 108 ambulance in each of the state’s 676 mandals. “The service currently has 400 ambulances. The ambulances are owned by the government, and the service provider is paid a fee for each patient they attend to or transport to the hospital,” Reddy, a veterinary doctor, told TOI over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plans-108-ambulance-in-each-of-states-676-mandals/articleshow/75496044.cms||Shaukat Mohammed
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||First trainload of migrants to arrive in Bhopal today||BHOPAL: MP’s first ‘Migrant Special’ will chug into Misrod station in Bhopal on Saturday morning, carrying 341 labourers who were stranded in Nashik. The administration has said no one will be allowed to receive them at the station. Bhopal DRM Uday Borwanker said the six-coach train will reach Misrod around 6.30am. There will be around 55 people per coach, which normally seats 72, to ensure social distancing, said officials, adding that they were mulling adding a seventh coach to space out people even more. By the time this report was filed, the chosen labourers had arrived at Nashik station. They were all at a shelter in Nashik and their details had been recorded. Only those who had completed 14 days of quarantine and didn’t have any cold, cough, fever or any other symptom of infection were chosen for the first trip, say sources. They were told individually around noon on Friday and asked not to share the information with anyone. They weren’t told the time of departure – only that they would be going home in the evening, say sources. “We have made all preparations to receive the Shramik Special train,” said Borwanker. Railway officials said that the train will pull into platform 1 or 6 to ensure quick egress. “Under no circumstances should people go to the railway station or anywhere near it, otherwise legal action will be taken against them,” Borwanker warned. After arriving at Misrod, the passengers will be handed over to the administration, which will screen them and decided who needs to be quarantined and who can be bussed home. Students can also board the trains to reach homePRO for Bhopal district collector, Arun Rathore, said that the workers will be screened at Habibganj station. “They will be sent to their destinations by bus after their details are recorded,” said Rathore. These trains are point-to-point and will not halt anywhere, say officials. Another such train will pass through MP on its way from Nashik to Lucknow on Saturday but no one will be allowed to board or deboard at Bhopal station or anywhere else it may have a service halt, said an official. Not only migrant workers, students and others who were stuck in other states can board these trains after registering with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/first-trainload-of-migrants-to-arrive-in-bhopal-today/articleshow/75498342.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 2, 2020||Surat||5,000 labourers get work at construction sites||SURAT: Over 5,000 construction workers have got employment at 75 construction sites that became operational in the city post relaxation announced by central government from April 20. CREDAI sources said about 200 applications were submitted by realtors for permission to start construction activity. Out of this, so far 75 applications have been approved by district administration. CREDAI-Surat president Ravji Patel said, “Construction work has been started only to provide employment to poor construction labourers and carry out their regular medical check-ups. Timely completion of residential and commercial units will go a long way in instilling confidence among valued customers about realty sector.” CREDAI-Surat vice-president Alpesh Kotadia said, “There are about 10,000 construction workers involved in realty sector in the city and we wamt more and more work to start.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/5k-labourers-get-work-at-construction-sites/articleshow/75496053.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Six more +ve, Davanagere a red zone||DAVANAGERE: ‘Green zone’ Davanagere has now jumped to the ‘Red Zone’ with eight fresh cases being reported in the past three days. On Friday, six patients in the district tested positive for novel coronavirus, among whom five were primary contacts of a 69-year-old man who was confirmed infected on Thursday. In addition to the five primary contacts, the sixth patient who was confirmed infected was the 16-year-old son of the 35-year-old staff nurse at a Davanagere primary health centre, who was the first to test positive for Covid-19 since the district’s classification under ‘green zone’. The total tally in the district has now jumped to 10, of whom eight are currently undergoing treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/6-more-ve-davanagere-a-red-zone/articleshow/75496054.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan student unions oppose governor's move to cancel polls||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra has suggested cancellation of the student union elections this year in view of the extended lockdown and increasing number of coronavirus cases. However, student leaders from both ABVP and NSUI have opposed the move. In a video conferencing with the vice chancellors of the state on Thursday, Mishra suggested that student elections this year should be cancelled as there won’t be enough time to hold it. The government needs at least a month including campaigning and election day to hold the polls. Since the government has to maintain social distancing in educational institutions, it will be difficult to conduct elections this year. ABVP state secretary Hushyaar Meena said the government was rushing to decide the fate of something four months away. “We understand that the government is thinking about students’ welfare but the election is four months away. The government can still find ways to conduct elections through online voting. It is a part of the democratic process as well,” said Meena. Similar concerns were voiced by NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Kumar Bhati who said online elections can be conducted. “Elections can be held in October which can take minimum 15 days. There is still time and with proper preparations we can hold students’ union elections, which are considered to be the first step of democracy,” said Bhati. A senior professor of Rajasthan University requesting anonymity said that conducting elections is a political decision. “The governor has suggested this issue but the ultimate power to conduct elections lies with the government. This is a political issue and is subject to the situation prevailing in the state at that time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-unions-oppose-guv-move-to-cancel-polls/articleshow/75498345.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, cyber conmen target liquor addicts||VIJAYAWADA: Cyber scamsters are now targeting liquor addicts through social media under the guise of liquor door delivery. Several Vijayawada-centric posts have been identified by cops on Facebook and Twitter and so far two cases have been reported at the cyber crime police station. Explaining the modus operandi, cyber crime cops said that they are putting up random pictures of liquor bottles, wine shops and bars on Facebook and Twitter along with their phone numbers. Later, they demand an advance fee or even the full amount from the complainant. The transactions are being done by scanning a QR code or accessing a link. The police said that one such incident was reported at Ibrahimpatnam police station limits where a complainant searched for such posts and contacted the person from the phone number mentioned in the post. He paid Rs 5,000 as advance through a QR code for liquor bottles. Later, when the accused stopped attending his calls, he approached Ibrahimpatnam police station. Another incident was reported at Machavaram police station limits where a person ordered a larger stock and made a transaction of Rs 33,000. Cops who investigated the case found that the person who made the post on Facebook lives somewhere in Bharatpur in Rajasthan. They managed to crack the case and recover Rs 30,000 from the accused’s account. Lockdown or not, cops point out that it is illegal to run a liquor door-delivery in any which way as the state excise policy doesn’t allow it. “There are instances in which people who fell into the trap feel embarrassed to lodge a complaint with the police,” a cyber crime police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-cyber-conmen-target-liquor-addicts/articleshow/75496058.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||2nd phase of rice distribution begins||Hyderabad: The second phase of 12-kg rice distribution began on Friday with four lakh white ration card holders taking the rice on the first day. The Rs 1,500 financial assistance will be deposited into the bank accounts of the card holders from Saturday onwards. However, the distribution of 1kg tur dal per card holder took off only in four districts of Nizamabad, Warangal (Rural), Medak and Nalgonda. The dal distribution in Hyderabad will commence on Saturday. Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said the tur dal supplies from the Centre are still awaited. Only 3,233 metric tonnes of tur dal was received as against a requirement of 8,755 MTs for May. Distribution of tur dal will be extended to all parts of the state as and when the supplies are received. Though the central government would supply tur dal free to only 52 lakh-odd white ration card holders, the Telangana government has decided to spend from its pocket Rs 103 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2nd-phase-of-rice-distribution-begins/articleshow/75497688.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||First trainload of migrants to arrive in Bhopal today||BHOPAL: MP’s first ‘Migrant Special’ will chug into Misrod station in Bhopal on Saturday morning, carrying 341 labourers who were stranded in Nashik. The administration has said no one will be allowed to receive them at the station. Bhopal DRM Uday Borwanker said the six-coach train will reach Misrod around 6.30am. There will be around 55 people per coach, which normally seats 72, to ensure social distancing, said officials, adding that they were mulling adding a seventh coach to space out people even more. By the time this report was filed, the chosen labourers had arrived at Nashik station. They were all at a shelter in Nashik and their details had been recorded. Only those who had completed 14 days of quarantine and didn’t have any cold, cough, fever or any other symptom of infection were chosen for the first trip, say sources. They were told individually around noon on Friday and asked not to share the information with anyone. They weren’t told the time of departure – only that they would be going home in the evening, say sources. “We have made all preparations to receive the Shramik Special train,” said Borwanker. Railway officials said that the train will pull into platform 1 or 6 to ensure quick egress. “Under no circumstances should people go to the railway station or anywhere near it, otherwise legal action will be taken against them,” Borwanker warned. After arriving at Misrod, the passengers will be handed over to the administration, which will screen them and decided who needs to be quarantined and who can be bussed home. Students can also board the trains to reach homePRO for Bhopal district collector, Arun Rathore, said that the workers will be screened at Habibganj station. “They will be sent to their destinations by bus after their details are recorded,” said Rathore. These trains are point-to-point and will not halt anywhere, say officials. Another such train will pass through MP on its way from Nashik to Lucknow on Saturday but no one will be allowed to board or deboard at Bhopal station or anywhere else it may have a service halt, said an official. Not only migrant workers, students and others who were stuck in other states can board these trains after registering with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/first-trainload-of-migrants-to-arrive-in-bhopal-today/articleshow/75499411.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Inflation expectations shot up sharply due to lockdown’||AHMEDABAD: Findings of the Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES) by professor Abhiman Das of IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) mentioned that the inflation expectations have rose sharply over February 2020 projections. Compared to 3.85% reported in February, for March the figure was 4.57%. “It is the highest ever print recorded since the inception of this survey in May 2017,” mentioned the report while talking about the one year ahead projections made by MSMEs that were part of the exercise. “The effect of the lockdown extension against the backdrop of Covid-19 spread is seen in the results of this round. The economy has come to a standstill, and inflation expectations are rising fast,” mentioned the report. The cost perceptions data shows signs of cost pressure, mentioned the survey. “Around two-fifth of the firms perceive that the cost increase is over 6% and over one-fourth of the firms perceive it would increase 10%.” Due to lockdown, 93% of firms in the sample said that sales were much less than normal – the figure which was already under distress at 85% in February. Over 93% of the firms expect much less than normal or somewhat less than normal profit margins for the month to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inflation-expectations-shot-up-sharply-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75497788.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Retired judge to assess Delhi riot damage||NEW DELHI: After a representation made by Delhi Police, the government has appointed retired high court judge Justice SN Gaur as the claims commissioner to assess the damage caused to public and private property during the riots that took place in northeast Delhi in February. The retired judge will prepare a list of claims to be recovered from the rioters. In the absence of a legislation, damages will be assessed as per a court directive. Once the liability is fixed, it will be shared with the perpetrators of the crime as well as the organisers of the event. A report will be submitted to Delhi high court, which will determine recovery of the damage amount after hearing the parties concerned. The appointment order also stated that an assessor may be appointed to assist the claims commissioner. The duration of the commission will initially be for a period of six months. However, it might be extended, if required, after consulting Delhi Police. On December 25, TOI was the first to report that Delhi Police was considering recovery of damage to property on the lines of UP Police. Police had identified and arrested more than 1,000 people who had damaged private and public property during the riots. Sources said the municipal bodies have been asked to give a list of the extent of the damage done to the private and public properties. Two special investigation teams were formed to probe the riots and asked to register FIRs so that the extent of damage could be established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/retd-judge-to-assess-riot-damage/articleshow/75498360.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Guarded optimism as dist reports zero cases in 24 hrs||Vijayawada: In what comes as a major relief to the district administration, no new Covid-19 cases were reported from Krishna district in the last 24 hours. The administration ramped up testing in containment zones and ensured stringent enforcement of the lockdown after the district—particularly Vijayawada city—saw a spike in the number of positive cases recently. In the first phase, the spread of the virus in the district occurred after foreign returnees came back to the state and attendees at the religious congregation in New Delhi returned home. In the second phase, a truck driver infected 24 persons in Vijayawada. With a total of 246 cases, the district is the third most-affected in the state, after Kurnool and Guntur. Eight persons have died so far, 37 have recovered and discharged while 201 cases are still active. Along with increased testing, city police stepped up efforts to identify possible suspects who came into contact with infected persons. Following the rise in cases, areas that reported infections have been placed under a complete lockdown with no movement except for essential services and medical emergencies allowed within a three-kilometre radius. Officials, however, cautioned restraint as more test results are awaited and new cases may arise. Lockdown measures will continue to be in force till all active cases test negative and no new cases are reported, officials said. Speaking to TOI, city police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said containment zones are still a cause of concern as these areas can throw up more cases. People’s movement in these areas will be restricted and contact tracing on a continuous basis is being carried out to rule out the possibility of contracting the virus contraction, the police chief said. “We have identified the primary source of contraction that caused second leg of virus spread in the city and all people who potentially face the threat of virus contraction through primary or secondary contact have also been identified and quarantine,” he said. The police commissioner added, “While it is definitely a great relief that the positive cases have come down significantly, the danger has not passed yet and people should be extremely careful, especially those living in red zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guarded-optimism-as-dist-reports-zero-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/75496084.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Clinics open in Jamalpur after a month||AHMEDABAD: After more than a month, doctors have opened their private clinics in the Jamalpur area of the Walled City, a Covid-19 ‘red zone’, but they are treating patients without using stethoscopes and blood pressure gauges. After much persuasion by the administrators and assurance that they wouldn’t be harassed by cops, the Jamalpur Doctors’ Association, made up of more than 30 doctors, agreed to resume their work for the first time since the lockdown began. They were given assurances by police that they would not be held responsible for any violation of social distancing outside their clinics, and the AMC promised not to fine them. Moreover, the authorities, especially the municipal commissioner, promised them adequate supply of PPE kits. After a meeting on Wednesday with police and AMC officials, local leaders and elected representatives, the doctors’ association set certain conditions. One of them was that they will not use blood pressure monitors and stethoscopes, and won’t touch patients. “Doctors won’t use these devices and touch patients until they get PPE kits. They will treat patients based on symptoms. If they find anything serious, patients will be sent to hospitals,” said Dr Zakir Shaikh. Meanwhile, clinics in many Muslim localities have opened in last two days. Local activists gathered information about the timings of these clinics and circulated the list on social media. Because of Ramzan, clinics function on unusual timings. Most doctors see patients either in the evening or morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clinics-open-in-jamalpur-after-a-month/articleshow/75497784.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||2,400 workers, students leave Jaipur, Kota for Patna, Ranchi in two trains||Jaipur: After getting the nod from the Centre, the state government and the North Western Railway (NWR) arranged for two special non-stop trains to Patna and Ranchi from Jaipur and Kota, respectively, to take stranded migrant workers and students to their native states. Both these trains, which are expected to leave late on Friday evening, will carry 1,200 passengers each from Jaipur and Kota. A special cell formed by the state government held a meeting with NWR authorities to discuss the modalities and arrangements for the trains. ‘Food arranged on two trains’Jaipur: “We are sending one train to Patna from Jaipur and one to Ranchi from Kota. In both these trains, we have arranged for food packets to be delivered to passengers. We have also asked railways to ensure social distancing,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner who is coordinating the trips with NWR authorities, to TOI. “Every coach has a sitting capacity for 72 passengers. However, we will only allow 50 passengers in a coach. We will not allow them to sit and sleep on the middle berth,” he said. On Saturday, two more trains are expected to depart from Kota and one from Ajmer. “We are working to decide to which states these trains will run," Jain said. Migrant workers, mainly from Nagaur and other parts of the state, were brought to Jaipur to board the special train. “Proper disinfectants have been sprayed. Thermal screening of every passenger will also be done. It is also compulsory for them to wear a mask,” said a senior NWR official. According to sources, there are still about 17,000 students stranded in Kota who belong to Jharkhand, Delhi, Odisha and other states. The state government has already sent more than 22,000 students to their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2400-workers-students-leave-jaipur-kota-for-patna-ranchi-in-2-trains/articleshow/75498356.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Surat||Amid roza, they don’t let needy stay hungry||SURAT: This group of about 30 men from Limbayat area of city has been providing food to about 1,000 people daily, have around 25 Muslim members who are working as hard as their Hindu friends even during Ramzan. The Rehmania group of Udhna Yard made some changes by cooking and delivering food packets before roza ended. The group started to cook food early in the afternoon. "Earlier, we used to distribute food until 8pm but due to Ramzan we are delivering it early as those involved in cooking and beneficiaries belong to different communities,” said Bhupat Raj, resident of Bhavna Nagar. There is division of labour in the group. Members take turns to work to give adequate rest to others who are fasting. Also, if a section of members goes to donors to collect food grains, vegetables and cash, the other involves itself in cooking. They serve vegetable pulav, kadhi khichdi, dal chaval and puri bhaji in the food packets. "We deliver food before 5pm at the nearby areas to 1,000 people ever since lockdown began,” said Imtiyaz Patel, member of the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amid-roza-they-dont-let-needy-stay-hungry/articleshow/75496078.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire at Ghatkesar unit, fireman hurt||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at a cooler manufacturing unit in Kondapur village under Ghatkesar mandal on Friday. A station fire officer sustained injuries while putting out the fire. No casualties were recorded. “I slipped while extinguishing the fire and fell. I sustained burn injuries on my right hand and leg,” said fire officer Shekhar Reddy. Officials suspect a short circuit may have triggered the fire which spread across two acress of the unit. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-ghatkesar-unit-fireman-hurt/articleshow/75497689.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||M-Mart for home delivery of essentials in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has launched a new service, M-Mart, to deliver home essential items with a phone call in order to restrict movement within red zones. An analysis of the recent spurt in positive Covid-19 cases has revealed that though people’s movement to and from red zones is restricted, many have been moving within containment zones, causing the spread of the virus. Recent cases in the city show a large number are reported from red zones and more than 75 cases can be traced to two people. As part of containment measures, the civic body has already launched mobile stores to supply essential commodities to people in red zones. VMC commissioner, Prasanna Venkatesh, has floated the idea of doorstep delivery to further curtail the movement of people in these areas. The VMC has established four stock points at Kedareswaripet, Machavaram, Krishna Lanka and Vidyadharapuram and designated four officers for supervision. Each stock point has three phone numbers and people may order vegetables, medicine, non-vegetarian items and other groceries from the M-Marts. VMC and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (Mepma) workers will deliver the items. The civic body has printed pamphlets with a list of available products in the M-Mart along with a price chart and phone numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/m-mart-for-home-delivery-of-essentials/articleshow/75496102.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan brings down red zone districts from 11 to 8||JAIPUR: The effective implementation of the ruthless containment model saw the red Bhilwara district turning into orange zone by bringing the spread of Covid-19 under control. Other than Bhilwara, four other districts — Tonk, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu and Bikaner — are also now in the orange zone after earlier being in the red zone. From 11 red zone districts on April 15, the state government and its Covid-19 team have managed to reduce such districts to eight now by strictly following and implementing the virus protocol and providing care and treatment. Taking steps to improve situation in 8 red zones: GovernmentThe ministry of health on Thursday issued the list of districts for the entire country, designating them as red, orange and green zones, depending on their performance in containing the spread of the virus. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since the recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated as various zones by broadbasing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify districts,” according to the Centre which has written to states. Ajmer and Nagaur, which reported a spurt in cases have been designated as red zone districts. They were earlier in the orange zone as per the classification done by the Centre in April 15. Till April 15, Ajmer and Nagaur had reported five and seven cases, respectively. But, from April 15 to April 30, both districts witnessed an outbreak of Covid-19 and cases increased to 150 in Ajmer and 118 in Nagaur. Taking note of the increased number of cases, the Centre has designated the two districts as red zones. Six districts in the state are in the green zone. These are Baran, Bundi, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, and Pratapgarh. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that they were taking measures to improve the situation in eight red zone districts. “We were preparing an action plan for these eight districts so that they can be turned into green zones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-brings-downred-zone-distsfrom-11-to-8/articleshow/75506589.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan brings down red zone districts from 11 to 8||JAIPUR: The effective implementation of the ruthless containment model saw the red Bhilwara district turning into orange zone by bringing the spread of Covid-19 under control. Other than Bhilwara, four other districts — Tonk, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu and Bikaner — are also now in the orange zone after earlier being in the red zone. From 11 red zone districts on April 15, the state government and its Covid-19 team have managed to reduce such districts to eight now by strictly following and implementing the virus protocol and providing care and treatment. Taking steps to improve situation in 8 red zones: GovernmentThe ministry of health on Thursday issued the list of districts for the entire country, designating them as red, orange and green zones, depending on their performance in containing the spread of the virus. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since the recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated as various zones by broadbasing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify districts,” according to the Centre which has written to states. Ajmer and Nagaur, which reported a spurt in cases have been designated as red zone districts. They were earlier in the orange zone as per the classification done by the Centre in April 15. Till April 15, Ajmer and Nagaur had reported five and seven cases, respectively. But, from April 15 to April 30, both districts witnessed an outbreak of Covid-19 and cases increased to 150 in Ajmer and 118 in Nagaur. Taking note of the increased number of cases, the Centre has designated the two districts as red zones. Six districts in the state are in the green zone. These are Baran, Bundi, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, and Pratapgarh. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that they were taking measures to improve the situation in eight red zone districts. “We were preparing an action plan for these eight districts so that they can be turned into green zones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-brings-downred-zone-distsfrom-11-to-8/articleshow/75506583.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Citizens in South Goa see red as ore-laden trucks put lives at risk||MARGAO: Haphazard, no-holds-barred ore transportation in South Goa’s mining belt has brought back memories of the mining boom days before the Supreme Court-ordered mining ban came into effect in 2012. With 10 mining firms having started transportation of their royalty-paid extracted ore lying in their mines, the Cavrem-Curchorem and Codli-Capxem roads are choc-a-bloc with mining trucks over the past few days, posing a threat to the safety of road users, particularly two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. Significantly, iron ore transportation is being carried out under heavy police cover following apprehensions that mining employees retrenched by their firms following the mining ban could foment trouble. Plans by locals to stop transportation activity were foiled by the police who prevented more than 3-4 people from gathering on the roads citing the prohibitory orders in force. Nevertheless, locals have demanded that the government put in place severe restrictions to ensure safety of road users. “When mining transportation started during the lockdown, people suspected the legality of ore transported, but no one questioned as they wanted truck operators to earn some income. But if you look at the present situation on the roads, it looks like that it has been strategically planned by some politicians to sell all of Goa’s iron ore deposits during the lockdown period,” Sanjay Dessai, principal of CES college in Cuncolim, said. The failure of the state government to complete the dedicated mining corridor has also irked locals. “It’s a scary situation out there from Cavrem to Curchorem, with both the lanes filled with mining trucks trying to overtake each other. The mines department claims that each of the trucks have been fitted with speed governors. If that’s true, how are speed limits violated with impunity?” social activist Christanand Pednekar, a resident of Cacumoddi, Curchorem, said. Pednekar also criticized the failure of the government in completing the dedicated mining corridor during the mining ban period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-in-south-goa-see-red-as-ore-laden-trucks-put-lives-at-risk/articleshow/75498692.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vendors in Ahmedabad fined Rs 3.81 lakh for not wearing masks||AHMEDABAD: “We have sent our workers to get the masks” or “N95 mask are not available in the market”, are some of the common excuses teams of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation heard when they raided vendors or shop keepers. An Amul Parlour in Bodakdev was sealed after the staff refused to pay the penalty for not wearing masks and not having sanitizers. The AMC had on April 29 announced that from May 1, if a roadside vendor was found without a mask, he would fined Rs 2,000 and his license will also be suspended for two months. Similarly, if a shopkeeper or his workers were found not wearing masks, he would be fined Rs 5,000 and his license will also be suspended. A fine of Rs 50,000 would be imposed on supermarkets if their staff or security guards were caught without a mask.” As a part of this drive, 149 teams began checking shops and handcarts. “As we moved about, we found many vegetable and fruit vendors who come into contact with large numbers of people were not wearing masks.” One officer said that the vendors gave the excuse that it was becoming difficult to communicate with customers, while in some cases the mask was there but it was not covering the mouth and the nose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vendors-in-city-fined-rs-3-81-lakh-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75497782.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Can’t pay full April salary to workers: Industry to Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Most of the major industry bodies in the state on Friday wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressing their inability to pay workers full salary for the month of April but suggested that they are ready to pay 50% if the government makes use of ESIC funds for the rest 50% of the salary. “Under prevailing conditions it will be very difficult for all industrial and commercial establishments to comply with the order to make payment of salary and wages of their workers for the period during which establishments remained closed due to lockdown,” said the letter signed by 11 industrial associations in the state. On April 29, the industries department had issued an advisory for the factories and establishments to pay the workers full salary on due date through online transfer for the month of April. However, the industry proposed that the minimum wages of the labour should be paid by ESIC considering this pandemic as a disaster due to which the labour is forced to sit at home just as in case of an accident or an illness. “If it’s found difficult to be paid 100% by ESIC, it can be equally shared between industry or employer and ESIC,” the letter said. Atul Poddar, president of Federation of Rajasthan Handicrafts Exporters, said, “We are not in a position to pay full amount. At best we can pay only 50% and the rest of the salary can be paid from the ESIC fund. If the government issues such an order and we are not able to pay, it creates a distrust between the worker and the employer.” Similarly, Suresh Agarwal of FORTI said that it is as much a responsibility of the industry as the government. “We do not want to lose the faith and confidence of the labour. But at the same time we need to have a capacity. Nobody knows how long the lockdown continues and we can’t keep paying them indefinitely,” added Agarwal. The organizations also drew parallels with big corporations, airlines, hotels and others which have cut salaried and resorted to retrenchment as well. “Why we cannot be treated in the same way as these big corporations. They have more capacity to absorb unlike us. Why the government does not force them and why us,” added Poddar. These associations include, FORHEX, Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI), Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan (GEAR), among others. Labourers take to streets demanding salary in Alwar On World Labour Day on Saturday, hundreds of labourers of Globus Spirit Ltd took to the streets and staged a sit-in protest in scorching sun demanding salary during the lockdown period. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot had asked the enterprises to arrange salaries and food for workers during lockdown, but hundreds of labourers of Globus Spirit Ltd in Behrod of Alwar district have not received their wages for two months. Irate workers staged a demonstration outside the factory on Friday. The workers said they are taking care of their families by borrowing ration for the last two months. Employees’ union thanks CM for not deducting wagesThe All Rajasthan State Employees’ Joint Federation (Unified) has thanked chief minister Ashok Gehlot for not making any deduction from the salary of the state employees in April due to Covid-19. State president Gajendra Singh Rathore said for the last several days, there have been reports that the salary of the state employees would be deducted in April as well due to the lockdown. This caused a lot of disappointment among the employees. The federation conveyed this feeling of the employees to chief minister. Gehlot then issued a directive not to make any deduction from the salary of all the state employees and officers in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cant-pay-full-april-salary-to-workers-industry-to-gehlot/articleshow/75498359.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Discharge of patient brings active cases down to 24 in Mysuru||MYSURU: The number of active Covid-19 cases came down to 24 in Mysuru on Friday, after a patient was discharged from the designated Covid hospital here. No Covid-19 case was recorded in Mysuru, since the last two days. Since a week, the district has reported only one positive case, and the authorities breathed a sigh of relief, as there is a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases. Of the total 90 cases, 66 patients were cured of the illness, and discharged from hospital. Starting next week, officials will start screening journalists and police personnel for Covid-19, as per a government order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/discharge-of-patient-brings-active-cases-down-to-24-in-mysuru/articleshow/75496091.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan brings down red zone districts from 11 to 8||JAIPUR: The effective implementation of the ruthless containment model saw the red Bhilwara district turning into orange zone by bringing the spread of Covid-19 under control. Other than Bhilwara, four other districts — Tonk, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu and Bikaner — are also now in the orange zone after earlier being in the red zone. From 11 red zone districts on April 15, the state government and its Covid-19 team have managed to reduce such districts to eight now by strictly following and implementing the virus protocol and providing care and treatment. Taking steps to improve situation in 8 red zones: GovernmentThe ministry of health on Thursday issued the list of districts for the entire country, designating them as red, orange and green zones, depending on their performance in containing the spread of the virus. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since the recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated as various zones by broadbasing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify districts,” according to the Centre which has written to states. Ajmer and Nagaur, which reported a spurt in cases have been designated as red zone districts. They were earlier in the orange zone as per the classification done by the Centre in April 15. Till April 15, Ajmer and Nagaur had reported five and seven cases, respectively. But, from April 15 to April 30, both districts witnessed an outbreak of Covid-19 and cases increased to 150 in Ajmer and 118 in Nagaur. Taking note of the increased number of cases, the Centre has designated the two districts as red zones. Six districts in the state are in the green zone. These are Baran, Bundi, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, and Pratapgarh. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that they were taking measures to improve the situation in eight red zone districts. “We were preparing an action plan for these eight districts so that they can be turned into green zones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-brings-downred-zone-distsfrom-11-to-8/articleshow/75498361.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan brings down red zone districts from 11 to 8||JAIPUR: The effective implementation of the ruthless containment model saw the red Bhilwara district turning into orange zone by bringing the spread of Covid-19 under control. Other than Bhilwara, four other districts — Tonk, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu and Bikaner — are also now in the orange zone after earlier being in the red zone. From 11 red zone districts on April 15, the state government and its Covid-19 team have managed to reduce such districts to eight now by strictly following and implementing the virus protocol and providing care and treatment. Taking steps to improve situation in 8 red zones: GovernmentThe ministry of health on Thursday issued the list of districts for the entire country, designating them as red, orange and green zones, depending on their performance in containing the spread of the virus. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since the recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated as various zones by broadbasing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify districts,” according to the Centre which has written to states. Ajmer and Nagaur, which reported a spurt in cases have been designated as red zone districts. They were earlier in the orange zone as per the classification done by the Centre in April 15. Till April 15, Ajmer and Nagaur had reported five and seven cases, respectively. But, from April 15 to April 30, both districts witnessed an outbreak of Covid-19 and cases increased to 150 in Ajmer and 118 in Nagaur. Taking note of the increased number of cases, the Centre has designated the two districts as red zones. Six districts in the state are in the green zone. These are Baran, Bundi, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, and Pratapgarh. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that they were taking measures to improve the situation in eight red zone districts. “We were preparing an action plan for these eight districts so that they can be turned into green zones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-brings-downred-zone-distsfrom-11-to-8/articleshow/75506575.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two more in Gujarat detained under PASA, total reaches 46||AHMEDABAD: Continuing to take strict action against those who abuse and assault Covid frontline warriors, two more persons were detained under PASA and sent to jail. With these, a total of 46 persons in 20 cases have been jailed under PASA in Gujarat for assaults on police, medical staff, and government officers who form society’s first line of defence against the pandemic. Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said a person, involved in an assault on police in Himmatnagar on March 28, was nabbed and sent to Surat jail under PASA. In another case, a person obstructing police in their work in Halvad taluka of Surendranagar district was detained under PASA and sent to Surat Jail. Jha, while wishing people on the Foundation Day of Gujarat, said staying alert, maintaining social distancing and wearing masks when stepping outdoors are the only means of fighting the Covid-19 virus. Praising the dedication of police, Jha said, “Police officers and personnel were also infected while fighting Covid-19, but they have joined the fight again after recovery. This shows their dedication towards their work.” He also praised the contribution of NCC/NSS cadets, employees of RTO and forest department who are working with cops to implement lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-more-in-state-detained-under-pasa-total-reaches-46/articleshow/75497778.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Surat||Lockdown stalls stem cell transplants of 15 patients||SURAT: The family of 12-year-old Harsh Bhanushali (name changed) living in Gir-Somnath was elated after being informed that a life-saving match donor for blood stem cell transplant was found in March. Harsh, a thalassaemia major, needs to be taken to Rajkot twice a month for blood transfusion. However, their joy was short-lived after DATRI, India's largest unrelated blood stem cell donors’ registry, told them on March 24 that the donor won’t be able to travel due to the nationwide lockdown. Ultimately, his life-saving operation planned at Ahmedabad was postponed. Harsh is not the only case. About 15 patients suffering from various blood ailments including cancer will have to wait for transplant despite the fact that their stem cells have matched with as many donors. Stem cell donors need to reach to the hospital two days before the transplant. "Our only hope was the blood stem cell transplantation. I don’t know when it will happen now,” Harsh’s mother, a widow, told TOI. Jalpa Sukhanandi, region head, Gujarat, DATRI, told TOI: “The lockdown has affected the process of facilitating blood stem cell transplants and transporting blood stem cells across state borders to the patients in various hospitals. Travel restrictions, coronavirus risk at hospitals, both to recipients as well as donors, have forced hospitals to postpone blood stem cell and bone marrow transplantations.” Sukhanandi cited another case of a 21-year-old man from the state diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a type of cancer, who scheduled for transplant, but is now being compelled to take extra dose of chemotherapy as he cannot fly down to Tamil Nadu for the transplant. “In this Covid situation, blood cancer patients are the most vulnerable. Time is running out fast for critical patients” she added. Stem cell transplant is the last hope of patients suffering from fatal blood diseases like leukaemia and thalassaemia. The transplant when a matched donor gives his/her stem cells and these are transplanted to the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-stalls-stem-cell-transplants-of-15-patients/articleshow/75496109.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man caught with 20 alcohol bottles||HYDERABAD: A man was caught with 20 liquor bottles in Siddipet on Friday. The accused was identified as Tharigoppula Ramchander from Musthyala village of Cheriyal Mandal. The police found the accused travelling on a two-wheeler carrying fertilizer bags. The officers checked the bag and found 20 bottles of alcohol worth of Rs 9000. According to police, he had got alcohol from a person name Kranthi in Konney village. He was booked under section of IPC and Telangana Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-caught-with-20-alcohol-bottles/articleshow/75497703.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Sources of income dry up for transgender community in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: As establishments remain closed and with no movement of people on roads, members of the transgender community are struggling to earn their livelihood in the midst of the lockdown. Andhra Pradesh has over 60,000 persons who identify as the third gender and who depend on begging, performing at weddings and other celebrations and sex work to earn their livelihood. The lockdown has postponed marriages and seen the cancellation of birthday celebrations and inauguration of shops. With crowds restricted and business establishments shut, “nowadays our source of income has dried up and our savings have also come to an end,” said Kajal, a member of the transgender community, adding “before the lockdown, I used to earn at least Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 a day, now I remain idle and have earned nothing during the lockdown.” Speaking to TOI, Hasini, a transgender, said a majority of transgenders in Andhra Pradesh reside in groups and live in rented accommodations. “Due to lack of income on the account of the lockdown, our community members have been facing trouble and struggle to meet their requirement such as medicines and food,” Hasini added. Though the state government provides Rs 3,000 per month to each transgender above the age of 18 as social security, a majority are not registered with the government. Members of the community said they had spent a portion of their savings towards helping the needy and are requesting the government now extend help to transgenders. “When majority of the people are not coming out of their homes in cities like Vijayawada and Vizag, Kurnool and Tirupati, where will we seek financial assistance? We live in rented houses and have to pay rent. We cook meals ourselves and need to pay for groceries. Some of us are suffering from health-related issues and are strugglinh to pay for medicines. Covid-19 has hit our livelihood hard,” Kajal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-income-sources-dry-up-for-transgender-community-/articleshow/75496153.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot MSMEs are worried as migrant workers head home after nod from govt||Rajkot: The union government’s decision to allow migrant labourers to return to their natives has Rajkot’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector worried. The engineering and small machine parts manufacturing units in and around Rajkot employ over 80,000 migrant workers who are mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Industry players said that allowing workers to return to their native, at a time when operations are set to resume after nearly month and a half, will adversely impact production targets and revenues.Rajkot is the hub of engineering units and employ worker from UP and Bihar in various industries like casting and forging, machine parts and tools manufacturing. Vice president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) Parth Ganatra, who also owns an engineering unit in Metoda GIDC said, “We have paid the workers salary of last one and half months despite nil production. We have also provided them food and fulfilled all their need as per the government direction. Now, when the time has come to start production, if they are allowed to go our business will severely impacted.”Some unit owners also fear what if the migrant worker on return to work brings along the coronavirus infection with him. This would result in shutting down the entire factory. “This is a wrong policy of government,” said Paresh Vasani, president of Rajkot Engineering Association. “Even after paying the workers for a non-productive month, if our unit don’t start operations, it will be a double loss for us.”Besides migrant workers from UP and Bihar, labourers from Odisha, Jharkhand and Rajasthan are also working in Rajkot. Some industrial associations have decided not to allow the workers to go back. Kishor Tiala, president of Shapar Industrial Association said, “We have asked them not to go back as we have already paid them two month’s salary without work.” There are 1,100 industrial units that have resumed operations in Shapar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-msmes-are-worried-as-migrant-workers-head-home-after-nod-from-govt/articleshow/75496130.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 2, 2020||Indore||City facing mosquito nightmare due to delay in anti-larva drive||Indore: The ongoing mosquito menace has been constantly giving a hard time to residents at various areas of city with many of them calling up Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC)’s control room and complaining about the issue for the last couple of weeks. There has been a sudden surge in the number of complaints regarding this at IMC’s control room on a daily basis. Sources claimed that daily number of complaints about mosquito menace have gone up to 1000 or even more. “In last 10 days, we have received about 12,000 complaints regarding mosquito menace,” pointed an official requesting anonymity. Lodhipura, Marothia Bazar, Silawatpura, Chandan Nagar, Sukhlia, Pardeshipura, Radio Colony, Chhawni, Sanchar Nagar and Sangam Nagar are among the worst affected areas with maximum number of complaints originating from there. IMC’s health department officials also admitted the surge in number of complaints and said that the delay in anti-larva operation is one of the reasons behind the issue. “Anti-larva activities were delayed as our staff assigned for the job was engaged in sanitization work being carried out in view of the coronavirus pandemic. This is one of the reasons behind it,” said department in charge Akhilesh Updadhyay. He said that they had formed separate teams at zonal level to carry out fogging and anti-larva drive in all affected areas besides cleaning of water bodies near residential areas. “We have pressed as many as 25 fogging machines as well as handheld sprayers to carry out the drive in an intensified manner to bring the situation under control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/city-facing-mosquito-nightmare-due-to-delay-in-anti-larva-drive/articleshow/75497726.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctor mowed down by truck in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: A newly appointed doctor was killed in a road accident in Bharatpur on Friday morning. The deceased, who was physically challenged, was identified as 26-year-old Rohitash Jatav. He had been appointed to the health care centre in Sewar police station area around a month back. Ramkishan, SHO, Sewar police station, said, “the doctor was returning after completing his night shift following which he went to the medical college for some work. While returning from there, he was driving his two-wheeler on the wrong side of the road. He was crossing the road when a truck mowed him down.” According to officials, the doctor died on the spot. The body was handed over to the family members after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doc-mowed-down-by-truck-in-bharatpur/articleshow/75498370.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||One tests Covid-19 +ve in Hubballi||DHARWAD: A 57-year-old man from Hubballi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday bringing the number of active cases in Dharwad district to eight. Deputy commissioner Deepa said P-589 who tested positive on Friday is a resident of Shanti Nagar in Hubballi and had influenza like illness (ILI). He is currently undergoing treatment at KIMS hospital in Hubballi, she added. So far ten people have tested positive in the district and of them two — a 33-year-old man from Hosayallapur and 29-year-old man from Mullan Oni — have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-tests-ve-in-hubballi/articleshow/75496118.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabs wife, her paramour in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A man stabbed hs wife and her paramour in Moti Paneli village of Upleta taluka in Rajkot district on Thursday night. Police said accused Mansukh Viramgama (30), stabbed both Madhuri (25) and her paramour Sanjay Parmar (20) at Fulzar Dam. While Madhuri has been admitted to Rajkot Civil Hospital in a serious condition, Parmar has been admitted to Upleta Civil Hospital, where his condition is said to be out of danger. According to the police, Mansukh always fought with Madhuri over her alleged extra-marital affair with Parmar. On that fateful night, after another round of fight, Madhuri walked out on Mansukh in a huff. “After leaving her house, Madhuri called up Parmar telling him that she was going to commit suicide by jumping into the dam’s reservoir. Parmar went to the dam,” said R K Chawda, sub-inspector with Bhayawadar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabs-wife-her-paramour/articleshow/75496122.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man who pointed gun at cop charged||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police Crime Branch has filed a chargesheet against Shahrukh Pathan, the 23-year-old who was photographed while pointing a pistol at an unarmed cop during the riots in February. This is the first chargesheet filed by police in the northeast Delhi riots case. Police have filed over 750 FIRs and chargesheets will be filed for important cases in the coming weeks, officials said. In the chargesheet, police have added sections of rioting and unlawful assembly to the original FIR lodged under offences like attempted murder and attacking on-duty policemen. Pathan had allegedly fired at head constable Deepak Dahiya and others on February 24. He was arrested by Narcotics Cell of Crime Branch on March 3 and is in jail at present. He was the first person to be arrested in the riots case. Police had seized his weapon, a 7.62 calibre pistol. The 350-page chargesheet was filed against Pathan in Karkardooma Court on Friday. The cops have also charged Pathan’s associate Kaleem Ahmad from Kairana, UP, as he was found to have harboured him when he was absconding. Pathan’s aide, Ishtiyaq Malik, who was with him at the spot during the riots, has also been charged. According to the chargesheet, Pathan fled from the spot after the incident and slept in his car at a parking lot in Connaught Place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-pointed-gun-at-cop-charged/articleshow/75498391.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Poor Sikar village donates 35 quintal wheat to needy||JAIPUR: In a show of gratitude to the government for resolving the water crisis in their village, residents of a Sikar village donated 35 quintals of wheat to be distributed among the economically backward people during the lockdown. Bhargadiya ki Dhandi village in Purohiton ka Bas gram panchayat in Sikar consists of 100 houses. The village was facing a water crisis after the only tubewell stopped working. Since there was no source of water for 3km from the village, residents who had to cover the distance on foot was put through hardship and frequent police inspections at every checkpoint. A villager, Phool Chand, said that since the tubewell stopped working, they were bathing only once in five days. “There was no water. Men and women had to walk 3km everyday and also tackle police,” he said. People were planning an agitation’“There was no water. Men and women had to walk 3km everyday and also tackle police. It went on like this for 15 days. We were fed up with it. During lockdown, it was difficult to dig another tubewell. Some people were planning an agitation in front of the collector’s office. We wrote to the district administration and the government dug another tubewell for us. As a token of thanks, we donated 35 quintals of wheat for the government relief works,” he said. People gave wheat according to their capacity. From 1kg to 50kg, every household in the village donated for the cause. “It was a conscious decision by the people. The temperature was rising and there was just one tubewell in the hamlet. Another tubewell was a boon. People contributed as per their capacity and nobody was forced to donate more. We just wanted to do our part at a time of crisis when government did their job,” said Anil Dhinwa, another villager. It was difficult for the government as well to dig a tubewell. Block development officer of Piprali Vijay Prakash Sharma, who coordinated the entire process, said that it was a first-of-its-kind gesture by a village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-sikar-village-donates-35-quintal-wheat-to-needy/articleshow/75498368.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||Varsity proposes pandemics course||Mhow: Dr BR Ambedkar University of Social Sciences (BRAUSS), Mhow, has written a letter to ministry of human resources and development for starting a course in universities on epidemics and pandemics just like disaster management and environment studies. The university research extension director prof DK Verma has proposed for setting up of epidemic and pandemic research institutions in all universities and epidemic and pandemic prevention centres in all colleges. Verma told TOI that he had written this letter 15 days ago and he has received a good response from there. “Any society prospers if it starts working on issues that are affecting it and a study on epidemics and pandemics is the need of the hour, especially for the densely populated countries like India.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/varsity-proposes-pandemics-course/articleshow/75497741.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||Away from family, cops lodged in hotels, resorts||Indore: Of the 4,100 policemen deployed in Indore, over 1,000 who had been living with their families, left their homes and shifted to other facilities like hotels and lodges after lockdown. This has helped force keep their families from getting infected. Of 21 policemen found positive, the families of only two, who had been living with their kin, were infected. Indore police had requisitioned government buildings to accommodate policemen on duty in city and advised all officials to stay away from their homes while working on the field. “They shouldn’t be carriers of infection,” he said, adding that police and health officials have maximum probability of interface with infected person. “In this scenario, we are the biggest threat to our family members. While they are in isolation, we are roaming outside,” said the IG. Of the 21 officials infected with Covid-19, three including ASP Amit Tolani, IPS Aditya Mishra, Khajrana constable Mehmood and Khajrana inspector have recovered whereas 17 are undergoing treatment. Of these, two are ASI while rest are head constables. The head constable of Aerodrome police station who got infected last week had been living at a hotel. He, however, got his wife infected. When he was asked about the same, he said that he went to meet his wife for one day because of some important work and unknowingly passed the virus to her. ASP Amit Tolani had been living with his family and so spread the virus to his sister-in-law and cook. In the initiative Ghar Nahi Jayenge, Apno Ko Apne se Bachayenge, IG Vivek Sharma said that they have made sure that all possible facility is made available to policemen living away from their kin. “Starting from good living conditions and good food, we have made sure that they get everything needed. They should not be stressed. We have also created a helpline and take care of the family members of these policemen such that they don’t feel stressed,” said IG adding that if their problems are not addressed by nodal officers they call me directly after 48 hours. IG said that he receives complaints and suggestions from several policemen every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/away-from-family-cops-lodged-in-hotels-resorts/articleshow/75497731.cms||Karishma Kotwal
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Divyang Mahasangh registers complaint with Centre over ex gratia||JAIPUR: Vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, Hemant Bhai Goyal has registered a complaint with the chief commissioner for disability, government of India on the issue of non-payment of Rs 1,000 ex gratia to persons with 40% disability, in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The matter was forwarded to director, disability, government of India, for taking appropriate action in the matter. In Rajasthan, around 28,000 specially abled persons received the amount when there are 3.5 lakh such people in the state. Earlier, an official said the Centre had given money to only those who fall in the national BPL list. They also should be above 18 years of age and must have 80% disability. Earlier, he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot requesting them to provide Rs 1,000 ex gratia for three months, as announced by the Centre in view of Covid-19 crisis, to even those who are 40% physically challenged. Former disability commissioner of Rajasthan Khillimal Jain had written to the Prime Minister and Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari had written to Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot and demanded the same for persons-with-disabilities (PwDs). “As per sub-section 3C of Section 24 of the Divyang Rights Act, 2014, even those persons with 40% disabilities are eligible for government relief or assistance at the time of natural or manmade disasters following guidelines of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities,” Goyal had stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divyang-mahasangh-registers-complaint-with-centre-over-ex-gratia/articleshow/75498377.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers take to streets demanding salary in Alwar||ALWAR: On World Labour Day on Saturday, hundreds of labourers of Globus Spirit Ltd took to the streets and staged a sit-in protest in scorching sun demanding salary during the lockdown period. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot had asked the enterprises to arrange salaries and food for workers during lockdown, but hundreds of labourers of Globus Spirit Ltd in Behrod of Alwar district have not received their wages for two months. Irate workers staged a demonstration outside the factory on Friday. The workers said they are taking care of their families by borrowing ration for the last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-take-to-streets-demanding-salary-in-alwar/articleshow/75498378.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Called coward for seeking test: Doctor||AHMEDABAD: Dr Satish Sharma, a resident oncologist at GCRI on Civil Hospital campus, claimed that he was not tested for Covid-19 despite symptoms and was called ‘fattu’ (coward) for seeking the test. He has written to the resident doctors’ association in Ahmedabad and has also approached the national body over the incident. “I had attended to patients who turned out to be Covid-19 positive. I had developed a sore throat and fever on Friday,” said Dr Sharma. “Thus, I sought permission from my HoD and approached Civil Hospital authorities. A doctor derided me and called me ‘fattu’. As a doctor, if I don’t have a test, won’t it be affecting others?” When contacted, Civil Hospital authorities claimed that Dr Sharma’s swab was taken. “He was asymptomatic and thus he was advised not to go for a test,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/called-coward-for-seeking-test-doctor/articleshow/75497739.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||People gatecrash shop, scramble for tobacco||Rajkot: Like a swarm of flies would descend on a lump of sweetmeat, a mob of nearly 50 people gatecrashed a shop and made a mad scramble for tobbaco products in Surendrangar district The video of the incident reported from Sudamada village of Sayla taluka few days ago has gone viral on social media.The nicotine addicts gatecrashed the shop of Ramesh Ali Mehrani after news spread like wildfire that he had procured bidis and chewing tobacco of a popular brand. Mehrani sells cattle feed. But had had brought more than 50 boxes, each containing 20 bundles of bidis each bundle containing 20 bidies, and 30 boxes of chewing tobacco of a popular brand, police said. “About 20 boxes of bidis and 10 boxes of tobacco had already been sold when we raided his shop. People, elderly and youngsters, gave too hoots to social distancing and made a mad scramble for tobacco,” said Shaktisinh Gohil of Sayla police station. “When the crowd saw us, they dispersed in a matter of minutes. We arrested Mehrani and seized 30 boxes of bidis and 20 boxes of tobaccos, all worth Rs 12,600,” added Gohil.Nicotine has been extremely difficult to get as its sale has been banned after the lockdown. The products are, however, beign sold in black at more than five times the actual price.Surendranagar district has reported just one positive Covid case, that too of a truck driver who had come from the adjoining Botad district. He is also asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/people-gatecrash-shop-scramble-for-tobacco/articleshow/75496145.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Rs 33,000 collected as fine for not wearing mask||MYSURU: In the past two days, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has collected more than Rs 33,400 as fine from the public for not wearing mask and spitting in public places. If people are found not wearing mask and spitting in public places, they need to pay a fine of Rs 100 for each of the lapse. On the first day of enforcement, the MCC collected Rs 16,700 as fine from 167 violators. The maximum fine was collected in Zone 4 where Rs 5,500 was collected from 55 violators. Almost all violations were for not wearing mask. On day two, that is on Friday, the corporation authorities penalised more than 167 people and collected more than Rs 16,700 as fine. After collecting the fine, the corporation authorities gave the violaters mask to wear. Dr DN Nagaraj, health officer,MCC, said: “Mysuru is a red zone. To bring more discipline among public and make mask mandatory and avoid spitting in public places, we have come out with this checking drive. Hence, we request people that once they step out of their house, they have to cover mouth and nose with any cloth. It is not mandatory that they should use surgical mask..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rs-33k-collected-as-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/75496135.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Ensure fertilisers to farmers at fair price: Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh write to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh on Friday wrote separate letters to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, asking for compensation to betel leaf traders and ensure fertilisers to farmers at fair price. “Prices of fertilisers have increased hugely in the state recently,” Digvijaya Singh wrote to Chouhan. “DAP (diammonium phosphate) which was priced at Rs 1,074 per bag has risen to Rs 1250 per bag. Potash which was priced at Rs 870 per bag has now become Rs 950 per bag. When commodity prices have decreased considerably, then increase in the prices of fertilisers is painful and intolerable for farmers,” the senior Congress leader claimed. He informed chief minister Chouhan that farmers in the state are extremely dissatisfied with the current fertiliser price increase. “My request to you is that price rise of fertilisers be controlled and farmers be provided the same at fair price,” he wrote. He asked the chief minister to ensure that necessary steps are taken to control the prices of fertilisers. Former chief minister Kamal Nath wrote to Chouhan informing him about the huge losses being incurred by betel leaf wholesale and retail traders. “Amid the present Corona crisis, I want to draw your attention to the problem being faced by betel leaf traders,” the letter said. “Betel leaves cannot be kept for a long time and that is why traders have incurred huge losses as their stocks perished. The livelihood of paan traders is at stake,” Kamal Nath argued. “I have been informed that in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, wholesale business for betel leaf has been started,” he said. The Congress leader urged Chouhan that in the green zone areas, paan (betel leaf) should be relieved of the lockdown and wholesale, retailers should be compensated. “Those who run small paan kiosks should be given free rations for three months and Rs 7,500 per month as financial aid,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-diggy-write-to-cm-paan-traders-fertiliser/articleshow/75497803.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for rape, blackmail||RAJKOT: A man was arrested on Friday for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman several times after allegedly blackmailing her in Gondal of Rajkot district. Police said the accused, identified as Mustaqit Khalifa (25), had allegedly raped the survivor several times after allegedly blackmailing her with the photographs and video clips of their intimate moments. “The survivor was in search of a job. Khalifa promised her to get one and made friends with her. During their courtship, Khalifa allegedly clicked the photographs and shot the video clips of their intimate moments. Then he started blackmailing the survivor for having sex with him, tired of which the survivor finally lodged a complaint against him,” said K N Ramanuj, inspector with Gondal city police station. “At present, we have detained Khalifa. We will formally arrest him, once his Covid-19 test report comes in,” added Ramanuj. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-rape-blackmail/articleshow/75496156.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||Correctional facilities under lens||Indore: Jail ADG Sudhir Shahi reached Indore and inspected jails after increasing number of inmates were reported positive. The senior official inspected arrangements and asked superintendent how they were handling things and took stock of how inmates were getting tested. “We have 2,000 inmates in central jail currently and all of them are screened almost every day,” said superintendent Rajesh Bhangre. He added that of the seven sectors in the central jail, they have 38 barracks. “All inmates in these sectors are screened and those found with symptoms are sent to an isolation ward where they are kept for a few days under observation and are given common flu tablets. If they get well, they are sent back to their barracks and if their condition does not improve, they are again sent to an isolation centre or to quarantine facility in Asrawad Khurd,” he said. Till now, 140 people have been sent to the quarantine centre. “We have total 26 positive patients of which two are in Aurobindo, eight in MRTB and 16 are undergoing treatment at quarantine centre,” he said. Only one of these patients was arrested from Chandan Nagar, who had brought Covid-19 to central jail, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/correctional-facilities-under-lens/articleshow/75497748.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan loses Rs 41 crore a day liquor revenue due to lockdown||JAIPUR: With the lockdown further extended to May 17, the state government is keen to open liquor outlets as it is losing over Rs 40 crore a day, including duty and Value Added Tax (VAT). A senior official in the finance department said that it is hard to manage the finances of the state with tax revenues falling significantly, including royalty from petroleum, because of the historic low prices of crude oil. Niranjan Kumar Arya, additional chief secretary (Finance), said, “The state government is losing Rs 41 crore daily as the liquor outlets remain closed. This includes both excise duty and VAT. Annually, the state gets about Rs 15,000 crore from both the heads.” With regard to the opening of shops, he said the state will identify the areas based on the new guidelines of the Centre . Much before the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was stretched fiscally because of farm loan waivers, discoms debt burden and delayed and reduced GST share to the state. The state government in its new excise policy for 2020-21 had raised licence fees for hotel and restaurant bars but it had to roll back those hikes to cushion the industry hit by the lockdown. However, keeping in view the staggering revenue losses, the excise department on Wednesday raised the additional duty and licence fees for country liquor which is expected to bring in an additional Rs 800 crore cumulatively to the exchequer. However, the additional income will not be even closer to the Rs 1,600 crore it is estimated to to have lost due to the closure of shops, said an official. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has already said that the state should be allowed freedom to prepare strategy to mitigate the pandemic problem which would have given the state government the power to decide on what is to be kept closed or opened. Many states like Karnataka and Kerala and political leaders have already spoken in favour of opening shops in manner that does not hamper the fight against coronavirus. There are already reports of a black marketing thriving. Sector experts said if these outlets remained closed any further, it would be hard to contain bootlegging and illegal sale of spurious liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-loses-rs-41cr-a-day-liquor-revenue-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75498381.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 2, 2020||India||Don’t leave, BSY & KCR govts appeal to migrants||BENGALURU/HYDERABAD: With lakhs of migrant workers stranded in various places raring to go back home, many states are staring at a labour crisis when economic activity resumes and are urging guest workers to stay put. “We intend to resume economic activities soon. We have appealed to employers to protect workers’ interest and pay their salaries. It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back and co-operate with us,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Friday. Home to about 8 lakh migrants, excluding the IT/ITeS sector, Bengaluru depends on them to keep its economy going. Contractors, builders, trade unions and activists TOI spoke with said 45%-50% of them may go back to their villages, and this could impact the city’s economic recovery. Alarm bells are ringing in Hyderabad too. The Telangana government has instructed district collectors to identify workers and try to convince them that work would start soon. State chief secretary Somesh Kumar said a majority of the workers preferred to stay back as industries in rural areas were set to restart operations. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesRead AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts were“We intend to resume economic activities soon. We have appealed to the employers to protect workers’ interest and pay their salaries. It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back in the state and co-operate with us to resume the economic activities once we receive directions from the Union government,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Friday. In Bangalore, Sathya Mukund of AITUC said many migrants wanted to leave as there was not enough incentive to stay back and depending on charity was a blow to affects their dignity. “They are poor, but won’t accept free food. The present relaxation (work at in-situ sites) spells a lot of uncertainty, and workers believe it may be better to return to the villages where they feel safer,” said Mukund. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: What all you can do from today, and what you can'tNEW DELHI: The second extension of coronavirus-induced lockdown began across the country from Monday. The two-week extension was announced by the government on Friday. Lockdown 3.0 began as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country breached the 40,000-mark. Here is a look at the various activitiesChaluve Gowda, director, Hombale Constructions, which has nearly 1,800 workers in 12 sites across the city, said many of them have requested for arrangements to be made to return home. Roshin Mathew, executive director, Brigade Group, said: “In our colonies, about 50% of them have decided to stay back since we’ve been paying salaries and taking care of them. Yet, many of them want to leave.” Alarm bells are ringing in Hyderabad too. The Telangana government has instructed district collectors to identify workers and try to convince them that work would start soon. State chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said a majority of the workers preferred to stay back as the industries in rural areas are set to begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-leave-bsy-kcr-govts-appeal-to-migrants/articleshow/75499149.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||Sudden rise of corona cases in Burhanpur & Mandsaur||Indore: An alarming rise in number of Covid-19 cases has been reported in Burhanpur and Mandsaur while two more deaths were recorded in Khandwa district. According to Indore division’s report of the day, 17 new cases including one death were reported in Burhanpur, which had not reported any case of Covid-19 since around 10 days. “We had reported the first case. The patient belongs to Maharashtra but was being treated here in a private hospital. Later, a former corporator of Daudpura area, who had visited Saudi Arabia for Haj around a month ago, had tested positive,” district collector Rajesh Kumar Koal told TOI. He added that all 17 positive patients are from Daudpura and had come in contact with the former corporator. “We have declared the area as containment zone while all the required steps are being taken to trace people in primary contact with positive patients and to check spread of the disease,” he said. Mandsaur district on Friday reported 20 new positive cases forcing local administration to extend lockdown by two weeks to May 15. Mandsaur, which has reported two deaths, had not reported any new positive case in around one week until today, when 20 new positive cases reported in a day increased the tally here to 29. On Thursday evening, local administration had discharged a 28-year-old female patient, who was the first positive patient of Mandsaur. Following the development, district crisis management group comprising MP Sudhir Gupta, MLA Yashpal Sisodiy, collector Manoj Pushp and other senior officials emphasized on strict implementation of lockdown and ensure all precautions to check spread of the disease. The collector expressed need to extend the lockdown, which was scheduled to end on May 3, for next two weeks. Likewise, Dewas district crisis management group today agreed to extend the ongoing lockdown till May 10. In the meeting, collector, senior police officials, zila panchayat CEO, DMC commissioner, CMHO, civil surgeon and district commandant discussed plan with MP Mahendra Singh Solanki and MLA Gayatri Raje Pawar. It was decided that Dewas is adjacent to the worst-affected Indore and Ujjain while lifting the lockdown on May 3 will result in starting commercial and other activities and can increase spread of Covid-19. The administration has however planned starting some industrial units and agricultural activities by ensuring all precautions. As per Indore division’s bulletin, Indore late on Thursday night reported four deaths and 49 new cases and is the worst affected for so far reporting total 72 deaths and 1534 positive cases. “Today, Khandwa reported two more deaths and the toll rose to six. Besides, one more positive case was reported here, further increasing the tally to 47,” Indore joint director (health) Dr JS Awasya told TOI. He added that one more patient was tested positive in Dhar and now, total 49 cases including one death has reported there. During the day, Khargone also reported three new positive cases and now, with total three deaths and 74 cases, the district is worst affected in the division after Indore district. Indore divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi on Friday visited the district and took stock of the situation. “The Centre has shifted district from red zone to orange zone,” Tripathi told TOI. His statement and Centre’s list of cities of red, orange and green category shifting Khargone from red to orange zone raised many eyebrows. “I can’t comment, whether it’s a typing error or not but in the Centre’s list….. We are putting all the efforts to control spread of the disease here,” Tripathi said. Under Ujjain division, Ujjain district reported three new deaths and six new positive cases. With this, district has so far reported total 27 deaths and 147 positive cases. Besides, two new cases each were reported in Dewas and Ratlam district while Shajapur, Neemuch and Agar-Malwa districts reported no new case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sudden-rise-of-corona-cases-in-burhanpur-mandsaur/articleshow/75497754.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Members pull out savings to feed poor during lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Members of the transgender community have taken out their savings for the cause of filling empty stomachs in the state during the ongoing lockdown. “Though we saved some money for future, the difficulty of migrant workers and street children due to the lockdown has become unbearable for us. We can’t sit idle and decided to spend our savings to provide meals to the needy,” said Hasini Manikala, a member of the transgender community. “We started feeding the needy in Kadapa district and later we started in Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur districts and our community members in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and few other districts of Andhra Pradesh have launched the distribution of food. We have been feeding over 3,000 to 4,000 people in a day for the past two weeks,” said Manikala, who formed the Hasini Association, which has over 1,300 transgenders as its members. “Since migrant workers are not in a position to prepare food, we have been preparing steamed vegetable rice, egg curry, mixed vegetable curry and distributing the food packets, including curd and banana,” said Tonny, a transgender man. Commending the efforts of the community during the crisis, police said members of the transgender community wear masks and are following social distancing while distributing food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-members-pull-out-savings-to-feed-poor-during-lockdown/articleshow/75496167.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Rajkot||Cop ends life in Junagadh||RAJKOT: Tired of the frequent squabbles with his wife, a cop consumed pesticide tablets at his residence in Police Line on Bilkha Road in Junagadh on Thursday night. Police said the deceased, identified as Dilip Dangar (55), assistant sub-inspector who used to serve as the driver of the circle police inspector, wanted to end his life over the unpleasant domestic atmosphere. “Our preliminary investigation suggests that Dangar took the drastic step over the domestic unrest between him and his wife,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police. Dangar, who had remarried after he got divorced from his first wife, is survived by two daughters from his second wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-ends-life-in-junagadh/articleshow/75496181.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Two more test positive in DK district||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district on Friday reported two more Covid-19 positive cases. With this, the number of patients has increased to 18 in the district. The latest addition to the tally is a 69-year-old man from Bantwal and 62-year-old man from Boloor here. The district also had six cases from outside, and these patients were treated at the designated hospital here. While the Bantwal patient (P-578) is a secondary contact of P-390 (the district’s first Covid-19 victim), the patient from Boloor (P-579) is the husband of P-536 (who was the 16th resident of the district to test positive). With the death of P-409 on Thursday evening, the district has nine active cases now. “Twelve patients, including four from Kasaragod, and one each from Bhatkal and Karkala in Udupi, have also been discharged,” said DC Sindhu B Rupesh. ‘Toll-booth staff safe’ Dr Sudhir Chandra Sooda, district health and family welfare officer of Udupi, said all the 18 staff of toll-booths at Thekkatte and Sasthan in the district, have tested negative for Covid-19. They had come under the scanner after a Covid-19 patient, travelling from Mumbai to his village in Mandya on April 21, crossed these booths in a dates-laden truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-more-test-positive-in-dk-district/articleshow/75496160.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Indore||Lockdown effect? More children are exploring porn nowadays||Indore: City based psychiatrists have noticed an increase in number of children exploring porn on the internet while being stationed in front of screens for hours. Since school work and classes have also shifted online, parents now cannot force children to stay away from laptops. Working parents are facing a lot of problems as despite being at home, they are not able to monitor what their child is doing on laptop. According to psychologist and cybercrime expert Nirali Bhatia, increased and unstructured time online may expose children to potentially harmful and violent content as well as greater risk of falling prey to various types of cybercrimes (such as cyberbullying, trolling, grooming) and addiction. “A lack of face-to-face contact with friends, peers may lead to heightened risk-taking such as sending, sharing sexual images or indulging in sexting,” she told TOI. Bhatia added that during this lockdown, parents can take an initiative to be proactive and talk to the children about the dangers online, about sexual or violent content and its effects on young minds. Many parents are also approaching cyber experts asking them to install hidden software to track what their children are doing. They should ensure that the devices their children use are all secured by an antivirus which is regularly updated plus the software of those devices is also updated in order to avoid any kind of malware hacks. Psychiatrist Dr Hiral Kotadiya said that access to computers and internet has become easier and voluntary exposure can happen because more time is spent on screen. “The possibility of accidental exposure is also there as something inappropriate can pop up based on adult history,” he said. There is curiosity and inquisitiveness because children are partially informed but have pressure from peer group and so they may explore it. Cyber bullying can also happen in such a scenario. “If they watch porn accidentally, kids below the age of six years might not understand but may repeat the things that they watch on the internet. The younger children between 6-12 years get very disturbed or angry as they don’t know how to react and so violence may increase,” he said adding that adolescents get distressed and repeated exposure might lead to addiction for them which may in turn lead to academic downfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/lockdown-effect-more-children-are-exploring-porn-nowadays/articleshow/75497750.cms||Karishma Kotwal
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Relatives worry who’ll attend to patients||AHMEDABAD: Dhiraj Patni’s mother Sakriben is on ventilator since the last week of April and Dhiraj was inside the ward O3 serving his mother. But after a video went viral claiming that relatives were allowed to stay with Covid-19 positive patients, the relatives have been pushed out of the wards, though they say, there are no ward boys or ‘aayas’ to help patients urinate or pass stool. Relatives of patients at the Covid-19 facility in Civil Hospital are now being made to wait in a corona camp and have to wait for the staff to call them. Patni, however, was all praises for the doctors who made regular rounds and treated the patients. He said his brother Naresh and his daughter were hospitalized while his mother was on ventilator. “We have already lost my father to Covid-19 and do not want to lose my mother. Since April 25, I was inside the ward serving my mother. She is on ventilator and hence she cannot go to the toilet. There is a urine bag which I used to empty every time. I also used to change the bedsheet if my mother use to pass stool on the bed. There is no ward boy or any aaya in the ward. All relatives are made to take care of the patients,” Patni said. He added, “If you call the nurse, she says that cleaning stool is not her job. She is right as her job is to take care of medical needs of the patients, but the ward boys and aayas are nowhere to be seen. They just sit somewhere or move here and there.” Till the time he had been allowed inside the ward, said Patni, they had to get masks, sanitizers and gloves at their own expense. Citing an example, a relative of another patient said that a woman had damaged her vigo and started bleeding. Staff took no care even when they saw blood welling out. She had to rush and call the nurse who came after two minutes. Even if glucose bottles finished drip, patients had to close the flow first, and then had to inform. “Band kari didhu che ne (Have you closed the flow?)” would be the question asked after staff ultimately arrived after 30-odd minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/relatives-worry-wholl-attend-to-patients/articleshow/75497771.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Woman, 22, kills self||Mussoorie: A 22-year-old woman committed suicide late on Friday evening by hanging self in her room. The deceased has been identified as Poonam, a resident of city's Indira Colony. The exact reason for suicide has not been ascertained as yet and according to the police, the death is being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-22-kills-self/articleshow/75497153.cms||Anmol Jain
May 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Sirohi police seize tobacco consignment worth Rs 1 crore||JODHPUR: Sirohi police on Friday seized a huge consignment of tobacco worth Rs 1 crore and arrested 3 persons. The consignment was loaded in Udaipur and was meant for delivery at Sanchores’s Ranivara in Jalore district. Mandar SHO Chhagan Lal Dangi told that the consignment of tobacco pouches was hidden under sacks of corn. “Following a tip off, a checkpost was set up at Sirohi-Jalore border where the truck was intercepted,” said Dangi. The driver said the truck was loaded with corn and it was to be delivered in Raniwara in Sanchore subdivision of Jalore district. On checking the truck, pouches of tobacco were found hidden under the sacks of corn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sirohi-police-seize-tobacco-consignment-worth-rs-1-crore/articleshow/75498390.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spurt in Covid-19 +ve cases in Gandhinagar puts babus on their toes||GANDHINAGAR: There is a heightened sense of concern in the top administration after state capital Gandhinagar and its surrounding villages registered a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases. Many of those who have tested positive have come in contact with secretariat officers and staff. After the government of India included Gandhinagar in the Covid-19 red zone on Friday, worries increased in the secretariat. The government appointed ACS rank official Rajiv Gupta as nodal officer for the state capital to fight the pandemic whose growth in the state capital can seriously affect the state’s core administration. At present, several key sectors of Gandhinagar like Sector 8, 2, 3, 24, 7, 23 and 29 have been declared as containment areas. A majority of IAS/IPS officers live in these sectors. Over 10 adjoining villages from where vegetable is supplied to the city have also been declared as containment zones. A senior officer said, “The government will have to take strict measures to prevent entry of any suspected Covid-19 patient into the secretariat. All staffers need to be screened on a daily basis, especially those who are coming from Ahmedabad and from Gandhinagar’s containment areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurt-in-ve-cases-in-gnagar-puts-babus-on-their-toes/articleshow/75497768.cms||Kapil Dave
May 2, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer man held for posting fake news on coronavirus||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG), along with the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and the cyber cell, arrested a man from Ajmer for posting provocative message on social media and spreading fake news about coronavirus. Till now, action has been taken in over 300 such matters and 10 cases registered by the SOG who has been keeping a close watch on social media activities to ensure that no panic is created in the state about the pandemic. Sanjeev Kumar Gupta was arrested by the SOG from Ajmer for posting objectionable content on a WhatsApp group with the intent to disrupt communal harmony, claimed officials. Anil Paliwal, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “Our team has been keeping a close watch on the content which is shared between people on social media platforms especially on those posts which can create communal disharmony or give rise to spread of fake news about coronavirus. While scanning the content, we found that the accused had posted a message on social media which was inflammatory in nature because of which he was arrested.” Cops have been keeping a strict vigil on social media activities to ensure that it is not being misused to spread false narrative about Covid-19. “We have teams who are monitoring all forms of social media to ensure that no one tries to create panic among residents by sending fake messages. Strict action is being taken against those who have been found to be doing so and more arrests are likely in the future,” added a police officer. Although a bailable offence, cops are hopeful that more arrests will act as deterrent for people to avoid posting such messages. An official said, “In times like this, it is crucial that we do not let fake news be spread to create panic. At the same time it is of utmost importance that communal harmony be maintained in this time of crisis. We will take action as and when required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-man-held-for-posting-fake-news-on-coronavirus/articleshow/75498392.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Udaipur||Sirohi police seize tobacco consignment worth Rs 1 crore||JODHPUR: Sirohi police on Friday seized a huge consignment of tobacco worth Rs 1 crore and arrested 3 persons. The consignment was loaded in Udaipur and was meant for delivery at Sanchores’s Ranivara in Jalore district. Mandar SHO Chhagan Lal Dangi told that the consignment of tobacco pouches was hidden under sacks of corn. “Following a tip off, a checkpost was set up at Sirohi-Jalore border where the truck was intercepted,” said Dangi. The driver said the truck was loaded with corn and it was to be delivered in Raniwara in Sanchore subdivision of Jalore district. On checking the truck, pouches of tobacco were found hidden under the sacks of corn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sirohi-police-seize-tobacco-consignment-worth-rs-1-crore/articleshow/75506559.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||During lockdown, S Goa police net Rs 45 lakh in fines||Margao: The South Goa police are closer to reaching the Rs 50 lakh mark of fines collected from violators of prohibitory orders imposed during the lockdown from March 25 till April 30. The South Goa police have so far booked 343 FIRs under Section 188 of the CrPC and for violating section 144 and netted an amount of nearly Rs 45 lakh. The highest amount of fines – Rs 6 lakh - was collected by the Fatorda police station. Altogether 733 people were arrested for violating the prohibitory orders and 259 vehicles were seized. Margao sub-division consisting of Margao town, Maina Curtorim, Colva and Cuncolim police stations, topped the list with 143 cases booked with 224 arrests. With 93 vehicles seized, Rs 16 lakh was collected in fines at all the four police stations. Altogether 89 cases were booked by the four police stations under Quepem sub-division consisting of Quepem, Curchorem, Sanguem and Canacona police stations. A total of 172 people were arrested and 76vehicles seized, while Rs 7.47 lakh were collected from fines by the Quepem sub-division. At the Vasco sub-division consisting of Vasco, Verna, Mormugao, Vasco Railway and airport police stations, altogether 69 cased were booked and 207 people arrested. A total of 74 vehicles were seized and fines aggregating Rs 13.4 lakh collected at all the five police stations. Altogether 42 cases were booked at the Ponda and Collem police stations coming under the Ponda sub division. 130 people were arrested, 16 vehicles seized and Rs 6.5 lakh collected through fines, the data released by the South Goa police headquarters reveal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/during-lockdown-s-goa-police-net-rs-45-lakh-in-fines/articleshow/75498716.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Four patients discharged in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI: Four patients, including two children, were discharged from the ESI Hospital here on Thursday. A one-year-old child (P-274) from Kavalaga village in Kalaburagi taluk, found infected with the virus on April 15, was treated at the isolation ward of the hospital. A two-year-old boy (P-227) from Wadi town was tested positive on April 12. The other two cured patients are a 24-year-old woman (P-220, who was tested positive on April 12), and a 38-year-old woman (P-222), who tested positive on April 15. P-220 is the daughter-in-law of P-177, the fruit merchant who succumbed to the infection. P-222 worked as an assistant at a hospital. Of the 53 cases, five have died and 12 recovered and discharged. The district still has 36 active cases. 5 discharged in Vijayapura  A 60-year-old man and an 18-month-old child were among the five patients discharged from the Vijayapura District Covid Hospital on Friday. Doctors and the medical staff of the hospital bid farewell to them by clapping and presenting them a box of dry fruits and a sapling. The number of cured patients in the district now stands at 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-patients-discharged-in-kburagi/articleshow/75496214.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: This pregnant technician is unstoppable in crisis time||VADODARA: A personal protection equipment (PPE) kit, hot drinking water, balanced diet along with herbs prescribed by the government’s AYUSH ministry helps 25-year-old Rekha Khant, a frontline warrior wage a relentless war against coronavirus even in her first trimester of pregnancy. Despite being allowed to go on leave, this never-say-die woman said she won’t rest till she debugs the world to make it safer for her unborn child. An emergency medical technician with 108 emergency services, Khant refused to take a single day off since lockdown and has been handling emergencies in Chhota Udepur including carrying suspected COVID-19 patients to hospital. “The simple consideration that the battle needs health workers the most, keeps me going strong,” said Khant, a native of Aravalli district. Husband, Kalusinh Khant, too, supports her in her endeavour. “My husband too goes to work at the petrol pump, but we both take utmost care not to get infected. He encourages me to continue doing my work in spite of my precarious condition,” Khant said. “We were not even aware that she is expecting a baby. It was only when her colleagues informed that we go to know about her pregnancy,” said Mahendrasinh Chauhan, emergency management executive. Chauhan added, “We asked her to take leave, but she refused and showed readiness to continue her work which really made us proud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-pregnant-technician-is-unstoppable-in-crisis-time/articleshow/75498018.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Employees’ union thanks Rajasthan CM for not deducting wages||JAIPUR: The All Rajasthan State Employees’ Joint Federation (Unified) has thanked chief minister Ashok Gehlot for not making any deduction from the salary of the state employees in April due to Covid-19.  State president Gajendra Singh Rathore said for the last several days, there have been reports that the salary of the state employees would be deducted in April as well due to the lockdown. This caused a lot of disappointment among the employees. The federation conveyed this feeling of the employees to chief minister. Gehlot then issued a directive not to make any deduction from the salary of all the state employees and officers in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employees-union-thanks-cm-for-not-deducting-wages/articleshow/75498398.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi minorities panel chief booked for sedition||NEW DELHI: Delhi Minorities Commission chief Zafarul Islam Khan was on Friday booked for sedition and promoting enmity on grounds of religion for his Twitter post that led to an uproar on social media. The case is being probed by Delhi Police Cyber Cell, which will soon send him summons to join the probe. The FIR was registered on a complaint by a south Delhi resident at ACP Safdarjung office. The complaint alleged that on April 28 Khan had made a provocative post that intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in society. It added that considering the sensitive environment in the country, the comments made by Khan were “deliberate and seditious with malicious intent to further hurt sentiments”. A screenshot of Khan’s social media post was also attached with the complaint. In the post, Khan had allegedly praised fugitive Zakir Naik claiming that he was a “respected household name in the Arab and Muslim world”. The account from which the provocative post was allegedly made was found to be operated by Khan himself. Moreover, he had signed off as chairman of Delhi Minorities Commission. Meanwhile, Khan on Friday apologised claiming that the post made by him earlier this week was “ill-timed and insensitive” in view of the country facing a medical emergency due to the novel coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minorities-panel-chief-booked-for-sedition/articleshow/75498404.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Only Haridwar in red zone now, Dehradun, Nainital in orange||Dehradun: In a major relief for Uttarakhand, Dehradun and Nainital have been included in the orange zone in the list of Covid-19 affected districts released by the Union government on Friday. While Haridwar is the only district in the red zone, the remaining 10 are covered under the green zone. Following the list, the state government has started preparing its report to seek further relaxation in districts which are included under the green and orange zones. Presently, only medical stores, along with diaries and grocery stores are opening from 7 am to 1pm in the state. However, plans are afoot to ensure that shops are opened in the green and orange districts for a longer duration. With the state government giving a nod to private construction, possibilities are high that it would request the Centre to open shops selling construction materials. To boost the revenue and economic condition of the state, efforts are also on to identify commercial sectors, which can be granted permission to start operating. Urban Development minister Madan Kaushik said, "The new list from the Centre is encouraging and we have already started our preparations. It is not only about opening of shops and commercial organisations but also preparing our self for the situation if the lockdown is removed." He added that national highway projects are being given due focus and efforts were on to start other key projects at the earliest. Till date there have been 57 cases of coronavirus positive reported in the state. Of which, 37 have been cured and discharged and 20 cases were active. The breakup of the data reflects that 31 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Dehradun, 10 in Nainital and seven each in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar. There are 13 active cases in Dehradun, followed by three in Udham Singh Nagar and two each in Haridwar and Nainital districts. The state government has identified seven containment areas each in Haridwar and Dehradun and one at Nainital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/only-haridwar-in-red-zone-now-dehradun-nainital-in-orange/articleshow/75497169.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Old, women and kids be given priority for travel: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said due to the vociferous demand from Rajasthan, the central government finally acceded to the demand of the state to run special trains for migrant labourers to reach home. He said apart from trains, the service of roadways and private buses could be availed for transportation of workers from nearby states. He directed the officials to make arrangements for their smooth travel in coordination with other states. He said elders, pregnant women and children had to be given special care and priority. Those who were planning to come by their own vehicles should be issued passes in consultation with the respective states, he said. The chief minister was holding a high-level meeting on lockdown and migrant workers at his residence. He said the state is in regular touch with the Centre and states to the challenging task of the return of lakhs of migrant workers to the state from different parts of the country. He said the state government is also trying its best for smooth return of the workers. Gehlot said due to social distancing and the ruthless containment policy adopted by the state, corona has been brought under control. He said the central and state guidelines had to be strictly adhered to in the third phase of lockdown announced on Friday. Chief secretary D B Gupta said the workers could travel in special trains by paying general ticket charges. He said the government is in talk with the Railways to increase the number of special trains. Additional chief secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup said the state government will be issuing fresh guidelines in the light of the orders issued by the Centre on Friday for restricted lifting of lockdown from May 3 to two more weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/old-women-and-kids-be-given-priority-for-travel-cm/articleshow/75498402.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Reconsider DA freeze, Cong tells Centre||Panaji: Congress has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging the Centre to reconsider the freeze on dearness allowance (DA) hike. On April 23, the Union government announced its decision to put on hold the DA hike for the year. This, said state Congress spokesperson Urfan Mulla, is harsh on the lakhs of government employees. In March, the Union cabinet had approved a 4% increase in DA, taking it to a total of 21%. However, with the hike put on hold, central government employees and pensioners will continue to receive DA at 17% as part of their salary and pension. “The country is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, where government employees such as police and doctors, teachers and so many others have worked hard and made an effort to fight the coronavirus as much as they can. The government, instead of rewarding its employees for their contribution, is doing injustice to them,” Mulla said. Congress urged the PM to pay the DA as promised and instead cancel the “self-indulgent Rs 20,000 crore beautification project” in Delhi and suspend official foreign tours. “If this suggestion is adopted by the government then it will not be necessary to deduct the increment in DA which will benefit lakhs of employees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reconsider-da-freeze-cong-tells-centre/articleshow/75498714.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag doctors relieved as woman completely cured||Hubballi: It was with palpable relief that the doctors at the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) discharged a 59-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 infection, and had been admitted close on the heels of an 80-year-old woman succumbing to the novel coronavirus – the first death from Covid-19 reported in the district. GIMS director Dr PS Bhusaraddi said the 59-year-old woman was discharged on Friday. “Yes, we were worried because we were unable to save the 80-year-old woman, and curing the new patient was a challenge for us. But the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff rose to the occasion and ensured her recovery. Both the district in-charge minister and the deputy commissioner called us every day and enquired about her condition,” Dr Bhusaraddi said. The discharged patient had displayed mild symptoms of Covid-19 when she was admitted to GIMS on April 16. “She had cold and cough, based on which we started treatment, which she responded to and recovered,” Dr Bhusaraddi said. Parting gift for patient The 59-year-old woman, who completely recovered from the dreaded Covid-19 infection was given a stately farewell with Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath, superintendent of police Yateesh N and the staff of GIMS seeing her off. She was offered a Rs 5,000-worth Betageri silk sari as a farewell gift. The doctors also provided her provisions including food grains, sufficient to last a month to help her through the hard times. The woman, who hails from the underprivileged sections of society, was assured by the district administration of its unstinting support during the lockdown. Her discharge has brought the number of active cases in Gadag district to three, and doctors at GIMS are confident of their being discharged in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-doctors-relieved-as-woman-completely-cured/articleshow/75496269.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||CM requests rly min for 12 special trains||CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday spoke to rail minister Piyush Goyal and requested him for 12 special trains to bring back locals from other states. "We have made the request and the rail minister has assured that the permission would be given for long distance trains but the nod from Home ministry was required short distance trains," CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said. The CM has requested special trains on routes of Delhi-Haldwani, Delhi-Dehradun, Chandigarh-Dehradun, Lucknow-Dehradun, Lucknow-Haldwani, Jaipur-Dehradun, Jaipur-Haldwani, Mumbai-Dehradun, Mumbai-Haldwani, Bhopal-Dehradun, Ahmedabad-Dehradun and Bengaluru-Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cmrequests-rly-min-for-12-special-trains/articleshow/75497189.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Brain stroke patient, found positive, dies||DEHRADUN: A 56-year-old woman, a patient of brain stroke, who had also been diagnosed as Covid-19-positive, died in AIIMS Rishikesh on Friday morning. The health officials though refused to term it as a Covid-19 death and cited different reasons for the demise of the patient. Meanwhile, the woman's cremation was done as per Covid-19 protocol. Officials of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the woman was suffering from heavy blood discharge in brain due to high blood pressure. “Apart from bleeding in main area of brain which controls all body functions, she was also suffering from pneumonia and urine infection,” said Dr Ravi Kant, director, AIIMS Rishikesh, adding that even though the patient was corona-positive, the main problems she was facing were related to brain and not Covid-19. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand health department, in a health bulletin, said that the woman died due to 'ventricular tachycardia secondary to acute coronary syndrome', which they added meant in simple terms that there was sudden reduced blood flow to the heart. Incidentally, two of the hospitals where she was treated earlier mentioned her to be ‘Covid-19- negative’. According to UB Mishra, dean, hospital affairs, AIIMS Rishikesh, the patient was admitted in AIIMS on April 22 and her Covid-19 test was done on April 27 after she became symptomatic. Her report came out positive on April 28. A few health professionals meanwhile expressed surprise at the death not being classified under Covid-19 deaths. “There is no doubt that the immediate cause of death can be anything in Covid-19 patients including cardiac arrest, brain stroke or other reasons but we cannot neglect that she was also suffering from pneumonia, a prominent symptom of Covid-19, which can be the primary cause of death. This case may fall in the category of co-morbid death due to corona,” said an official from Uttarakhand health department, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, one more patient who had tested Covid-19-positive recovered and was discharged from Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) on Friday, bringing the tally of those who have recovered so far in the state to 37.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/brain-stroke-patient-found-covid-positive-dies-health-officials-say-death-not-covid-19-related-attribute-it-to-heart-failure/articleshow/75497195.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Exodus during easing of norms has government worried||HYDERABAD: At a time when lockdown norms are being eased and industries allowed to operate in rural areas, especially MSMEs, and construction sites, the homeward flight of skilled and semi-skilled migrant workers has industries and the state government in a fix. On Friday morning, 1,225 migrant workers from the IIT-Hyderabad campus construction site left for Jharkhand on a special train. They were part of the over 2,000 workers engaged by two infrastructure giants at IIT Hyderabad, where construction work is likely to be impacted by this sudden development. According to sources, infrastructure development work at the Dandumalkapur MSME Industrial park too has taken a hit after migrant labour from Bihar, who had been camping at the site since the lockdown, did the vanishing act on Friday. “The government was planning to give permission to resume work at the site but the workers, who were there till yesterday, just disappeared today,” said a source. On April 28, Telangana government instructed district collectors to permit industries, brick kilns, stone crushing units, rural repair shops of agriculture implements, textiles, small plastic industries, beedi making and some units in IALAs (industrial area local authority) to operate. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar told TOI that collectors have been asked to identify workers in their respective districts and convince them that work will be starting soon and that even if they return home they will be under 14-day home quarantine. “While a majority of the workers want to stay back as industries in rural areas are set to restart, some migrants are keen on going back home. But as per the Centre’s instructions, the home states should also agree to their arrival,” the CS said. Labour department officials said 40% of the estimated six lakh migrant workers in Telangana work in construction and infrastructure sectors. Pointing out that informal estimates of migrant labour is approx 8 lakh, FTCCI president Karunendra Jasti said while labour intensive industries are sensitive to the humanitarian aspect of their reverse migration to villages, the government needs to step in with social security or incentivising plan to coax them to resume work sooner. However, FICCI Telangana chairman T Muralidharan said the government can resolve the inter-state migrant labour problem by encouraging migrants from within the state. But officials termed it as a temporary problem. “The government has already asked units allowed to function, to maintain social distance and operate with minimal staff.,” said a senior official in CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exodus-during-easing-of-norms-has-govt-worried/articleshow/75497820.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC tracing primary contacts of Covid-19 infected||HYDERABAD: With positive cases being detected on April 30 and May 1, multi-disciplinary teams have started speaking to coronavirus patients to track down their primary contacts. By Friday evening, 46 people were identified as primary contacts and they have been home quarantined. “Most of the people who are home quarantined are primary contacts of people who tested positive on May 30. The quarantined people need to follow home quarantine guidelines for 28 days,” said a GHMC official. Places where coronavirus positive cases were detected and deaths were reported on May 30 — Navarang Guda, Chruch Colony and TV Colony (all of them located in or near Ramanthapur) — were barricaded. Professors Colony, Vanasthalipuram and Jiaguda are the other localities which were barricaded on Friday. The person who tested positive in Navarn Guda was in touch with eight people. The patient has been sent to Gandhi Hospital and his eight primary contacts are home quarantined as their test results were negative. In Chruch Colony one infected person spread the virus to his family members (two people) and the three of them have been hospitalised. “After probing a family in Church Colony we found out that there are no additional primary contacts or secondary contacts,” said a GHMC official. On May 30, two infected people came to Malakpet Gunj (wholesale market) and infected three shop owners. The five positive cases have been hospitalised and their families have been home quarantined. “The two persons spread the virus to three shop owners. The remaining market is unaffected.” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-tracing-primary-contacts-of-covid-infected/articleshow/75497833.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Many govt departments ‘flouting’ DOP directive||JAIPUR: Despite the department of personnel’s (DOP) directions asking all the departments at the secretariat to e-mail the list of names of the staff being called to office to a senior security officer, it was not being followed strictly by the departments, said an official. Meanwhile, at the agriculture department, the employees complained that they were scared to even sign the attendance register as sanitiser was not made available for them to apply before signing the register. “Safety measures are hardly in place like sanitisers in the rooms where the employees sit. People bring their personal sanitisers. Notice is issued if someone doesn’t come on being called,” said a junior-level staff at the agriculture department in Krishi Bhawan. Agriculture department’s joint director, administration, Sitaram Jat, said, “Only officials belonging to A and B category are being called to office. The employees in the C and D catergory are asked to report to office only if it is urgent or their services are needed. If officials belonging to A and B category don’t come to office, only then they are marked absent. We sanitise the entire building with machines and also provide sanitisers to the employees.” However, many officials who were not in the A and B category were seen working at the department. Taking strong objection to many junior employees of various departments going to the Secretariat unnecessarily without official directions to report to office, the DOP on Thursday issued an order asking all department heads to e-mail or give in a pro forma the list of names of officials being called to office to the senior deputy secretary, security. Principal secretary, DOP, Roli Singh, said, “This has been done to ensure that nobody comes from areas that are sensitive and discouraging people to hang around unnecessarily. Initially, there were some lapses but later they realised the seriousness of it and they stopped doing that. It has also been done as a precautionary measure in order to trace the contact history of a suspected person, if at all there is any. That’s why we want a list from the secretaries.” She also said employees in the departments engaged in essential services - like home, IT department, and agriculture - are coming. While some employees at Krishi Bhawan said an employee at the watershed department was issued notice for coming to office from a curfew-affected area, S R Banjara, commissioner of the department, denied having issued any such notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-govt-departments-flouting-dop-directive/articleshow/75498408.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||Ensure 24X7 power supply, PM asks power ministry||PM Narendra Modi on Friday asked the power ministry to ensure uninterrupted supply and initiate measures to maintain the sanctity of contracts and enhance sustainability in the sector as the country , still under the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic,moves to gradually restart economic activities. During a meeting to take stock of the pandemic’s impact on the sector, a government statement said the PM sought further reforms to improve the viability of discoms, including rationalisation of tariffs, timely release of subsidies and improved governance. Some of these issues are being addressed through the Electricity Act of 2020, the draft of which is being discussed among stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ensure-24x7-power-supply-pm-asks-power-ministry/articleshow/75499162.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Foreigners stuck in Vrindavan, Rishikesh urge for extension of visa till June||DEHRADUN: Many foreign nationals, especially those from countries like USA, Australia and Germany, who are currently in Vrindavan and Rishikesh, have asked for an extension in their visa instead of the exit permits that have been issued to them to return to their countries. Quite a few of these are elderly people, especially those who are in Vrindavan, and have been staying in the town for years on extended visas. One such foreign national, an 80-year-old woman who is associated with the spiritual group, Iskcon, told TOI over phone, "There is a 20% death rate for people of my age if they contract Covid-19. I am currently in a safe situation here in Vrindavan and don’t want to take any risks. It will be a death sentence for me if I am forced to travel back to California." She added that many others who are in Vrindavan have been given exit permits of dates between May 10 and May 31. Most of these foreign nationals have been living in India since the past 6-7 years and said that they were able to comfortably get visa extensions earlier to extend their stay. “We consider India as our home and it is unfortunate that we are being shown the door like this. We love this country, and I hope that the government listens to us," said an elderly foreigner in Vrindavan who requested not to be named. The situation is similar in Rishikesh which is another hub of foreign travellers, who come to India to learn yoga. Rohan Maclaren from Australia, who is currently stuck in Rishikesh and is staying in Parmarth Niketan ashram told TOI that he came to India in January on a 90-day visa which expired during the lockdown. "Our visas have been extended gratis till May 3 and I should technically leave India as soon the lockdown ends but I really don’t think this is a good idea. I would request the Indian government to extend the visa of foreigners stuck in India, at least till June," he said. Echoing similar sentiments, Ulrike Mueller from Germany said that India could contain the virus outbreak due to its strict implementation of lockdown and she would prefer to stay on till the situation improves in his home country. "I came to Rishikesh to attend International Yoga Festival and had applied for a visa extension on April 9. Recently, I was informed by the Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO) that I should reapply for visa extension after the lockdown ends as they have closed my file. The reason was not elaborated to me. I only urge the government to let me live in India until this pandemic gets over," she said. Meanwhile, when contacted on the issue, Roshan Bhakuni of the FRRO in Lucknow told TOI that visa extension depends on a case-to-case basis and the visa is extended after viewing the reason and requirement of an individual's stay in India. Responding to the matter, ministry of home affairs (MHA) spokesperson Vasudha Gupta said that such individuals should send an e-mail to the concerned FRRO specifying that they need visa extension beyond May 3 and May 17 and do not want to avail ‘Exit’ on gratis basis. The official added that their applications will be examined and decision subsequently taken on the merit of each case. According to estimates by police, there are around 1000 foreigners currently stranded in Rishikesh and approximately 700 in Vrindavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/foreigners-stuck-in-vrindavan-rishikesh-urge-for-extension-of-visa-till-june/articleshow/75497205.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four die of Covid-19, 82 more cases, infection numbers rise to 2,666||JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed four more lives on Friday taking the total death in the state to 62. This apart, 82 persons tested positive for the virus taking the infected count to 2,666. In Jaipur, there were two casualties taking the death count in the city to 34. One person died in Nagaur, which was the second Covid death in the district. One died in Jodhpur, which was the eighth death in the city due to the virus. The Jodhpur victim was a 27-year-old girl from Pratap Nagar who had tested positive for coronavirus on April 22 and died at MDM Hospital on Friday. She was suffering from multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. A 32-year-old resident of Painter Colony in Shastri Nagar, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 28, died the next day. Another death was reported from the city’s Khazane Walon Ka Rasta. A 62-year-old man, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 28, died on Thursday. The cause of concern for health authorities is that they did not have any co-morbidity. In majority of the deaths reported in the state, persons who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities, but in the two deaths in Jaipur, doctors claimed that no comorbidity was found. A 26-year-old woman, who was a resident of Basni of Nagaur district and admitted to PBM Hospital in Bikaner on April 25, died while undergoing treatment on April 29. The health department officials said she had pregnancy related complications. Health department officials said 82 persons were found infected with the virus on Friday. The districts which reported the cases are Jodhpur (35), Jaipur (21), Ajmer (11), Chittorgarh (7), Kota (7) and one in Rajsamand. In Jaipur, the 21 persons who were found infected were from Ramganj (5), Sodala (3), Shastri Nagar (2), Kishanpole (2), two from unknown address and one each from Sikar House, Agra Road, Gurunanakpura, Dudu, Pratap Nagar, Purana Jalupura and Chand Pole. Health minister Raghu Sharma said all the migrants from the state who will return to their villages will have to stay at a quarantine facility for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-die-82-more-cases-infection-numbers-rise-to-2666/articleshow/75498411.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Four die of Covid-19, 82 more cases, infection numbers rise to 2,666||JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed four more lives on Friday taking the total death in the state to 62. This apart, 82 persons tested positive for the virus taking the infected count to 2,666. In Jaipur, there were two casualties taking the death count in the city to 34. One person died in Nagaur, which was the second Covid death in the district. One died in Jodhpur, which was the eighth death in the city due to the virus. The Jodhpur victim was a 27-year-old girl from Pratap Nagar who had tested positive for coronavirus on April 22 and died at MDM Hospital on Friday. She was suffering from multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. A 32-year-old resident of Painter Colony in Shastri Nagar, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 28, died the next day. Another death was reported from the city’s Khazane Walon Ka Rasta. A 62-year-old man, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 28, died on Thursday. The cause of concern for health authorities is that they did not have any co-morbidity. In majority of the deaths reported in the state, persons who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities, but in the two deaths in Jaipur, doctors claimed that no comorbidity was found. A 26-year-old woman, who was a resident of Basni of Nagaur district and admitted to PBM Hospital in Bikaner on April 25, died while undergoing treatment on April 29. The health department officials said she had pregnancy related complications. Health department officials said 82 persons were found infected with the virus on Friday. The districts which reported the cases are Jodhpur (35), Jaipur (21), Ajmer (11), Chittorgarh (7), Kota (7) and one in Rajsamand. In Jaipur, the 21 persons who were found infected were from Ramganj (5), Sodala (3), Shastri Nagar (2), Kishanpole (2), two from unknown address and one each from Sikar House, Agra Road, Gurunanakpura, Dudu, Pratap Nagar, Purana Jalupura and Chand Pole. Health minister Raghu Sharma said all the migrants from the state who will return to their villages will have to stay at a quarantine facility for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/4-die-82-more-cases-infection-numbers-rise-to-2666/articleshow/75506119.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government retracts order asking doctors to show cause of testing positive for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: With many health professionals in the national capital testing positive for novel coronavirus, Delhi government on Friday asked the medical directors of its hospitals to seek written explanation from such health workers how they got infected. In an order, which was later put in abeyance following public outrage, the state health secretary said the health workers should explain how they got infected despite wearing the required protective gear, maintaining safe distance and following precautions prescribed for healthcare workers. The May 1 order said it is reported that many doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff in non-Covid hospitals are either getting infected or reported as a contact of infected persons. “Medical directors are indiscriminately sending them in quarantine either in hotels or their homes for 14 days. This practice is causing an unnecessary shortage of doctors and staff in hospitals,” it stated. The order directed the medical director of hospitals to constitute a team of doctors to ascertain whether a person declared a contact comes under the central government’s parameters to be declared as the contact of a positive patient. However, later in the evening, another order was issued by the health secretary stating that the previous order regarding shortage of staff in non-Covid-19 hospitals due to infections of doctors and staff was being kept in abeyance till further orders. More than 200 health professionals from non-Covid facilities across the national capital have tested positive for novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-retracts-order-asking-docs-to-show-cause-of-testing-ve/articleshow/75498419.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Curfew to be lifted from Banbhoolpura on Sunday||Nainital: The Nainital district administration announced on Friday evening that curfew will be lifted from Banbhoolpura locality of Haldwani on Sunday. The decision to revoke the curfew was taken at the meeting of senior officials of the district, including the district maigstrate (DM) and senior superintendent of police (SSP). Banbhoolpura was declared a Covid-19 hotspot on April 6 after five cases were reported from the area. On April 11, a curfew was imposed in the locality after a rumour spread that religious leaders were being taken to quarantine centres. The rumour prompted hundreds of locals to come out on streets and stage protest against police, administration, and the health department. Nainital DM Savin Bansal said that once the curfew is lifted, guidelines that are followed across the state will come into force in Banbhoolpura. “Once the curfew is lifted, locals will be given relaxations as per the guidelines of government from 7 am to 1 pm. The administration officials will give detailed information on the relaxations and prohibitions in the area on Saturday,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/curfew-to-be-lifted-from-banbhoolpura-on-sunday/articleshow/75497202.cms||Prashant Jha
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Market sealed as 3 +ve cases emerge||Hyderabad: The Mahboob Gunj market in Malakpet was sealed by GHMC authorities on Thursday night after two traders and a helper tested positive for coronavirus. Barricades have been erected at the entrance of the market and a police picket has also been set up. On Thursday night, police officials from Chaderghat station arrived at the market with GHMC officials and asked vendors to shut shop immediately. The decision to temporarily shut the market has come as a blow to many traders for whom the month of Ramzan promises to be a period of lucrative business. “Although continuous lockdown has already affected the business a lot, the sudden halt of business at Mahboob Gunj will further have an adverse impact on the traders,” said Mohammed Altaf, who owns a wholesale shop. The decision to seal the market has come close on the heels of the wholesale onion market being shifted to Patancheru from the Gunj premises. “We have been asked by GHMC authorities to cordon off the whole market. A police picket has been deployed,” said P Sateesh, inspector at Chaderghat police station.“Social distancing norms were being violated and the market was very close to Malakpet Red Zone. Due to this, we took the decision to shut the market for next couple of days. After a review meeting, a decision will be taken regarding restarting business activities at the market premises,” said a senior GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/market-sealed-as-3-ve-cases-emerge/articleshow/75497836.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 2,081 government schools declared quarantine centres in Patiala||PATIALA: The district administration in Patiala declared all the government schools, including primary, middle and senior secondary schools as quarantine centres till further orders. The decision has been taken by the deputy commissioner to deal the Covid-19 suspects under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. The decision has come a day after a number of pilgrims from Nanded Sahib and some persons from Rajasthan have been evacuated and brought back to the districts of Punjab. In Patiala, around 146 persons, including 95 pilgrims, were brought by the government buses. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit revealed that there are 2,081 schools in the district including primary, high schools and senior secondary schools. He said that the step was taken as a precautionary measure so that the suspects in rural areas can be quarantined in their village school or neighbouring village if any need arises. The district authorities had already declared number of government buildings including colleges, NIS Patiala, some inns and others as quarantine centres having capacity of more than 5,000 persons including Chiranji Ashram with a capacity of 150 quarantine beds, government college (girls) with a capacity of 450 quarantine beds, government Mohindra college with 200 beds, a government state college of education with 342 beds, NIS Patiala with 120 beds, government polytechnic college with 200 beds, Gurudwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib with 300 beds, Gurudwara Parmeshwar Dwar having 200 beds, Khalsa College with 70 beds, Laxmi Bai Dental College at Sirhind road with 250 beds and Gurudwara Bahadurgarh Rajpura road with 150 beds. However, it has now raised its capacity by announcing all the schools in the district as quarantine centres. Meanwhile deputy commissioner claimed that if need arises other government buildings may also be used as quarantine centres. He said that over 2,200 buildings including government schools have now been made as quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-2081-government-schools-declared-quarantine-centres-in-patiala/articleshow/75499161.cms||Bharat Khanna
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman booked after posting lockdown violation video||AHMEDABAD: A Vastrapur woman who uploaded her own lockdown-violation video on social media was booked by police on Friday. She had posted a video of herself passing by the Vastrapur police station According to the FIR, the woman giggles while passing by the police station and she is apparently heard saying that she does not fear police. On the basis of her social media accounts, she was identified as a resident of Goyal Intercity. Vastrapur police have booked her under IPC Section 188 for disobeying a government notification. Charges under the Epidemic Act have been invoked as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-booked-after-posting-lockdown-violation-video/articleshow/75497848.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||My request to pvt OPDs to open: CM||CM Rawat on Friday issued an appeal to all private doctors to restart their out patient departments (OPDs).He said thatit was the moral duty of doctors to look after the needs of patients during this time and it was an urgent need as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/my-request-to-pvt-opds-to-open-cm/articleshow/75497210.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Outstation mining trucks posing a risk to locals: Cong||Margao: Expressing concern over mining trucks that are arriving into Goa from neighbouring Karnataka which has seen a large number of Covid-19 positive cases, state Congress president Girish Chodankar on Thursday said that “rash driving of these trucks has also endangered the lives of the people with chances of fatal accidents.” Pointing out that almost 200 trucks were entering Goa daily, Chodankar said, “There is fear amongst Goans about severe outbreak of corona virus. Goa Pradesh Congress committee (GPCC) demands that the government issue a clarification on how these trucks are allowed to enter Goa when inter-state transportation, except of essential goods, is banned due to the nationwide lockdown. Is it that mining is made part of essential activity by the Modi government, who is known to patronise crony capitalists at the cost of the poor?” He further said, “transportation contracts were being given to non-Goans thus exposing the BJP government’s apathy towards mining dependants, adding that it was possible for the government to instruct mining companies to engage Goan trucks for transportation of the ore. Chodankar also demanded that the government explain whether the drivers and others travelling in the trucks are tested for coronavirus and whether they are issued Covid negative certificates. “GPCC also demands that the chief minister deploy traffic police and RTO officials on the route where these trucks are plying to bring in discipline and save people from losing lives. It is unfortunate that the government is focusing more on issuing challans to common man for minor mistakes. Is this the new methodology of revenue generation of a bankrupt BJP government?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/outstation-mining-trucks-posing-a-risk-to-locals-cong/articleshow/75498721.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Decisions on lockdown 3.0 modalities on Saturday||GANDHINAGAR: The state administration will meet on Saturday to decide on various aspects of the Union government notification and how they will be implemented in the state even as stage three of the lockdown begins from May 4.  Although the new guidelines for lockdown 3.0 permit state governments to do micro-zoning within large areas under municipal corporations and even in red-zone districts, the state government is not inclined to provide any major relaxation in lockdown for three cities — Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara. Rajkot, where there are relatively fewer Covid-19 cases, may get some relaxation. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and state government spokesperson said, “The state government will strictly follow the Union government guidelines for the extended lockdown period. Officials have been asked to prepare a report based on the guidelines that have been issued. We will meet on Saturday to discuss every issue in detail, after which the government will make necessary announcements.” Sources said that the government will seek feedback from officers, political leaders, business and trading community and general public, before taking a call on which activities should be permitted in the green, orange and red zones. “Any relaxation can lead to further worsening of the situation. Therefore the government will examine all aspects closely before making announcements in this regard,” the sources said. After the government of India declared 9 districts of Gujarat in the red zone, 19 in orange and 5 in green zone and indicated the possibility of relaxation in orange and green zones, there was a buzz in the state administration that the state government may consider micro-zoning in the four big cities of Gujarat and offer some relaxations. However, a decision in this regard will be taken on Saturday. With 326 new Covid-19 patients testing positive in Gujarat on Friday alone, the state now has 4,721 positive cases. As the number of Covid-19 patients jumped from 766 cases on April 15 to 4,721 on May 1 – a 516% increase in just a fortnight – the number of red zones defined by the Union health ministry has also gone up. According to a letter issued by the ministry, nine districts namely Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Anand, Banaskantha, Panchmahal, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Arvalli, are now classified under red zone. The state has 19 districts in the orange zone while only five districts, namely Morbi, Amreli, Junagadh, Porbandar and Devbhumi Dwarka, are in the green zone. According to the previous classification, five districts — Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and Rajkot were classified under red zone i.e. hotspots with large outbreaks. According to the new list, districts are designated as hotspots /red-zones, orange zones and green zones based on incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/decisions-on-lockdown-3-0-modalities-today/articleshow/75497852.cms||Kapil Dave
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: CETs unlikely to be held in May||HYDERABAD: All the local common entrance tests (CETs) such as EAMCET, ICET are unlikely to be held in May owing to extension of lockdown by another two weeks as declared by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday. Over two lakh students appear for various CETs to secure admission in professional courses such as engineering, management, polytechnic, law etc. As per the earlier schedule, all CETs were scheduled to commence from May 2 beginning with the Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET). All the CETs were set to be concluded by May 31, following which the results were to be declared in June. However, the extension of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic has derailed the Telangana State Council of Higher Education’s (TSCHE) plans. Previously, the TSCHE had extended the last date for payment of application fees till May 15. “Conducting the exam and maintaining social distancing is not an issue but we are not sure as to how long it will take now for normalcy to be restored. We will be waiting for government directives before we finalise a schedule for all the CETs,” said Papi Reddy, TSCHE chairman. Another major challenge for TSCHE is that the local CETs should not clash with other national-level competitive exams such as Joint Entrance Examination (JEE Main and JEE Advanced), National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) which too have been postponed by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Following the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, the TSCHE is also devising a modified examination and academic calendar which is likely to be declared by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cets-unlikely-to-be-held-in-may/articleshow/75497854.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie documentary bags Best Documentary award at Dada Saheb Phalke Film Festival Awards 2020||Mussoorie: An hour-long documentary titled “Savoy: Saga of an Icon”, that captures the 200 year-old history of Mussoorie, bagged the “best documentary” and “best cinematography” awards at the Dada Saheb Phalke Film Festival Awards 2020 on Thursday. Anchored by acclaimed historian and author Ganesh Saili, this documentary has so far received a total of 19 awards in various film festivals across India and abroad. The documentary team comprises director Kshitij Sharma, cinematographer Abhishek Negi and producer KK Kaya. “The documentary captures the social history of Mussoorie and development of the town, funnelled through the archway of Savoy,” said Saili.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-documentary-bags-best-documentary-award-at-dada-saheb-phalke-film-festival-awards-2020/articleshow/75497223.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Prominent politicians in Uttarakhand on target of hackers||Dehradun: The top state politicians appear to be on the target of hackers and people using fake social media accounts. The issue came to the fore when minister Rekha Arya made a complaint with DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi alleging that someone had made a fake account with her identity and was circulating objectionable messages through them. This is not the sole example and the accounts of some top politicians have been hacked or duplicate accounts were created under their name to spread malicious information. Former CM Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri urban development minister Madan Kaushik, an OSD of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and a number of other BJP leaders too have been on target of hackers in the past. The person who created the Facebook account in the minister’s name made a Facebook call to her relative and a teacher and showed them pornographic content. The issue was brought to the knowledge of Arya, who made a police complaint on Thursday. This was not for the first time when a social media account of the minister has been targeted. On January 10, this year, the Instagram account of the minister was hacked and she had reported the matter to police. Terming it a serious issue, Arya said, "Police needs to act promptly in this matter. This is not for the first time I have been targeted on social media. I have brought the matter to police knowledge and waiting for the findings." She added that police is yet to inform her about the developments in her Instagram account hacking case. Narendra Pant, circle officer and in-charge of cyber cell, told TOI, "We received a complaint from minister’s office that someone made a fake profile on her name and made calls to her contacts through messenger. As the profile was deleted within no time, we have sought details from Facebook to ascertain the identity of the culprit."  Earlier, in June 2019, the Facebook Account of Dhirendra Singh Panwar, the OSD for CM Rawat, was hacked. Simultaneously, the FB account of many other BJP leaders including Sumit Pandey were Rajesh Chaudhary hacked and objectionable and obscene contents were circulated through these accounts. In October 2019, the social media accounts of minister Madan Kaushik were hacked. His Gmail, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter accounts were hacked between October 28 and 30, last year. Similarly, in September 2017, the Twitter account of former CM Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri was hacked and a series of "discontented" tweets were posted his Twitter handle. His daughter Ritu Khanduri, who is BJP legislator from Yamkeshwar constituency filed a police complaint in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prominent-politicians-in-uttarakhand-on-target-of-hackers/articleshow/75497234.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Six districts turn ‘orange’, but five cases in region||TRICHY: Six central districts progressed to orange zone from red while three recorded five new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday. Karur, Ariyalur, Nagappatinam, Trichy, Perambalur and Pudukottai were classified under orange zone while Thanjavur and Tiruvarur stayed in red zone as per Friday’s bulletin. Karur, Ariyalur and Nagappattinam being moved to orange zone despite having new cases raised many eyebrows. The officials attributed the new standards of the health ministry to the classification. Within 12 hours of the last Covid-19 positive patient in Karur district getting discharged, a fresh Covid-19 positive case has emerged. The district had its last case on April 17. A 25-year-old person from Chinnavarapalayam in the district tested positive and was shifted to the Karur MCH. He was working as emergency medical technician with 108 emergency ambulance services in Chennai and had come to his native place on April 24. He along with his parents have been brought to the medical college and swab of 12 of his close contacts taken for test. The lone patient from Karur district, a 32-year-old woman, was discharged. On Friday, the hospital discharged two patients from Dindigul and one patient from Namakkal after their recovery. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old police constable attached to the dog squad of Ariyalur police has tested positive. The police department had collected samples of 342 policemen on April 28 of which only the 32-year-old resident of police quarters turned positive. Ariyalur municipality has now set up a containment zone for a radius of 3 km around the quarters and disinfected the vicinity. Samples of 55 people were also lifted. “We have also collected swabs of the policemen who were deployed for duty near the containment zones, hospitals and check posts. Police stations and quarters of the police personnel are being periodically disinfected,” Ariyalur SP V R Srinivasan told TOI. Meanwhile, two Covid-19 positive patients aged 12 years and 36 years of Ariyalur district were discharged from MGMGH. Nagappattinam district also had a new case in a 62-year-old man from a primary source of infection. Thanjavur witnessed two more cases after April 23, both women. Both of them contracted the disease through secondary contacts of positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-dists-turn-orange-but-5-cases-in-region/articleshow/75498422.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||ICSE exam schedule to be out early||HYDERABAD: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will conduct the remaining class 10 (ICSE) and class 12 (ISC) exams, which were suspended in March after the national lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, subject to the Central government’s directives on the lockdown. While examination for six ICSE subjects was pending, eight subjects for ISC were postponed following the lockdown. According to a press release by CICSE, all these exams will be conducted within a period of 6-8 days, including the weekend. “Revised schedule for the exams shall be announced eight days prior to the commencement of the exams. After the conduct of the remaining examinations, the CISCE shall declare the results within a period of six to eight weeks,” read the release. In the meantime, CISCE has advised all its affiliated schools to continue with online teaching-learning processes during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/icse-exam-schedule-to-be-out-early/articleshow/75497858.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Work of converting Aguada jail complex into museum resumes||Calangute: Following the relaxation of some lockdown restrictions, work on the redevelopment of the Fort Aguada central jail complex, which is being converted into a museum, has resumed. Work had commenced in February and the museum is expected to be inaugurated in December. The redevelopment and restoration of the former jail complex, as well as the Aguada Fort, has been undertaken by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), under the Central government’s Swadesh Darshan scheme, at a cost of Rs 25crore. The plan includes widening of the approach road and creation of a new parking area for visitors. When ready, the museum will showcase the lives of Goa’s freedom fighters, many of whom were jailed there during Portuguese rule. Besides statues and murals of prominent personalities, the museum It will also have sound and light shows, a cafeteria and an open-air exhibition and performance area for art shows and music events. A proposal to have a gallery on the life and times of former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar has, however, run into opposition with some freedom fighters pointing out that Parrikar had no role to play Goa’s freedom struggle. Meanwhile, Candolim sarpanch Blaize Fernandes has refuted allegations leveled by a local activist who said that the hill next to the jail gate was being excavated illegally. Fernandes said the work is being carried out by the GTDC-appointed contractor and as per the approved plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-of-converting-aguada-jail-complex-into-museum-resumes/articleshow/75498728.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Aloysius to roll out 40-plus free online courses from May 3||Mangaluru: The 140-year-old St Aloysius College has launched several free online add-on courses, not only for their students, but also interested members of the public, who will receive a digitally generated certificate, on successful completion of the course. The courses will run from May 3 to May 25. More than 40 free online certificate courses in food science, physics, humanities and graphic design, have been launched in the past few days. Staff members of different departments have conceived, designed, and offered these certificate courses. These courses are designed with a view to enhance the knowledge base for those taking them, and its application for the betterment of society. According to the staff who developed these courses, this unique project has caught the imagination of students and teachers, who have been registering for these courses, within days of them being announced. Popular courses have over 300 candidates registered, even before the scheduled commencement date of May 3. These online courses are designed meticulously, to add value to the curriculum of the institution, and augment competence and skill-sets of students. St Aloysius College principal Rev Fr Praveen Martis said that the college has taken initiatives towards reaching out to the needy, and to meet the needs of students going through uncertain times. Log on to: https://qrgo.page.link/dARVB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/aloysius-to-roll-out-40-plus-free-online-courses-from-may-3/articleshow/75496334.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Passengers screened, social distancing norm followed||HYDERABAD: The first special train to transport stranded migrant workers was flagged off from Lingampally at 4.50am on Friday with 1,225 passengers on board. The 24-coach train to Hatia in Jharkhand, which usually seats 72 persons per compartment, was restricted to 54 persons per compartment in accordance to social distancing guidelines. “A special train was run on request of the state government and as per the directions of ministry of railways. All necessary precautions such as prior screening of passengers, maintaining social distancing at the station and on the train were followed,” South Central Railways (SCR) chief public relations officer, Ch Rakesh, told TOI. “As of now only one train is running from the state and any further trains shall be planned only upon directions from the ministry of railways and on request from state governments of both originating and destination locations,” he added. According to SCR, senior officials from state government and railways along with Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police were deployed to personally supervise the boarding of passengers and operation of the special train. Sources reveal that the train that left the city carried migrant workers from IIT Kandi campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passengers-screened-social-distancing-norm-followed/articleshow/75497860.cms||Arya Sharan
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Green nod to new Parliament plan||NEW DELHI: Paving the way for a new Parliament building, the expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the environment ministry has recommended granting green clearance to the project with some conditions, the main one being the outcome of a pending case in the Supreme Court. Congress criticised the government for pushing ahead with the project amid the novel coronavirus crisis, saying it showed the Centre’s “warped, distorted and completely absurd priorities”. After going through the response from the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the EAC said, “Based on the information and clarifications provided by the proponent vis-a-vis mitigation measures for likely environmental impacts proposed by the proponent, the EAC appraised environmental aspects of the project and recommended for grant of environmental clearance with following specific conditions.” Besides the outcome of the petition in the SC, the EAC has listed conditions including no cutting of trees, strict adherence to management of construction waste and enough provision for green space for the Rs 922 crore project. According to the proceeding of the EAC meeting that took place between April 22 and 24, the CPWD rejected concerns over the government taking up the project during the Covid-19 emergency. The Central Vista Committee, headed by a CPWD functionary, also gave “no objection” to the new Parliament while suggesting that the features of the new building should be “in sync” with the existing one. Congress, however, was not impressed and said the move came at a time when the government had frozen dearness allowance of central government employees and suspended MPLADS for two years. The party attacked the government alleging it has “misplaced priorities” and “ill-conceived goals”. It said when the nation is fighting the pandemic the government wants to go ahead with the project. Party functionary Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the country can get 15 lakh ventilators to fight Covid-19 with the amount planned to spend for the project. “It shows the warped, distorted and completely absurd priorities of this government. Bang in the middle of Covid-19, they are fast-tracking, hot-footing the project,” he said. Calling the project the government’s “hobby horse” and the proposed buildings as “Modi-mahals”, Singhvi said, “It is the intention to leave in a personal manner your own stamp, by littering the green verdant landscape of Rajpath with new buildings in the name of modernisation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-nod-to-new-parliament-plan/articleshow/75498429.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Sanitary workers posted at wholesale mkt get PPE kits||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has provided 25 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to sanitary workers involved in cleaning work at the temporary vegetable market in G Corner ground, to prevent them from contracting Covid-19. Each PPE kit consists of hand gloves, a face mask and a coat with head cover. Officials said that safety boots will be provided soon.“We have intensified preventive measures to ensure the safety of our workers’ as several people and vehicles from other other districts and states come here. We have instructed the workers to wear the safety gear while cleaning the market,” a corporation official said. The civic body disinfects the ground for 30 minutes before letting the sanitary workers to clean the market, which generates up to 10 MT of waste per day.Meanwhile, ever since Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai, fear has gripped a section of traders in Trichy. “We are petrified on hearing about traders in Koyambedu testing positive. It is high time that traders and loadmen followed social distancing in G Corner market,” a 32-year-old vegetable trader said. A section of traders also suggested dividing the wholesale market into country vegetable section, English vegetable section, tomato section and coconut section to avoid overcrowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitary-workers-posted-at-wholesale-mkt-get-ppe-kits/articleshow/75498424.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Requests to return swell||HYDERABAD: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said the state has received requests from Telugus stranded in various states but not migrant labourers. “A group of 25 to 30 girls from Siddipet are stranded in Amaravathi in Maharashtra. The government has sent permission letter to the district authorities. Similarly, from Kota in Rajasthan, some students want to come to Hyderabad and the government spoke to the authorities and provided consent letter. “We got requests from small groups like 3 to 4 people from other states. The state allows them but with a condition of quarantine and check-ups. They have to make their own transport arrangements,” the chief secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/requests-to-return-swell/articleshow/75497866.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Salem||6 arrested with 700 litres fermented sap, 30 litres illicit arrack||Krishnagiri: Six people were arrested with 700 litres of fermented sap and 30 litres of illicit arrack in two separate incidents in Kobasandram and Kottayur villages at Soolagiri here on Friday. According to Hosur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) C Sangu, he got a tip that some people were brewing illicit liquor at Kobasandram and Kottayur villages and conducted a raid. In Kobasandram village, he said, three people were indulged in brewing illicit arrack in a house. “While we managed to arrest two, one escaped. We have launched a manhunt for him. We have seized 500 litres of fermented sap and 15 litres of arrack from them.” The officer identified the accused as Natraj, 38 and Balaji, 35. “We are in search of the third accused, Prabu, 35.” In Kottayur village too they came across a four-member gang that was involved in brewing illicit arrack. “We arrested Krishnan, 35, Murugan, 30, Narasimhan, 29 and Chinnathambi, 32, and seized from them 200 litres of fermented sap and 15 litres of arrack,” the DSP said. All the six have been lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/6-arrested-with-700-litres-fermented-sap-30-litres-illicit-arrack/articleshow/75497879.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi opens online registration for one-time inter-state travel||UDUPI/ MANGLAURU: While the Udupi district administration opened online registration for one-time movement of people inter-state, Dakshina Kannada district too began the process for the same. In Udupi district, there are about 12,000 migrant labourers from different districts. Of them, 6,000 are willing to go back to their hometowns. The district administration has already sent 2,700 people to their hometowns, and 3,000 are yet to go back. On Friday, two buses were sent with 40 and 37 migrant labourers in them, to their native places. In different shelters in Kundapur, there were 600 labourers, of whom, 60 are yet to go back to their native places, said Kundapur assistant commissioner Raju K. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesh said the district administration has received an order, and henceforth, stranded people who want to go home, have to pay for their tickets. “We will only arrange for the vehicles for those who are stranded in the district. This might stop people from going to their hometown unnecessarily. We have started construction work, and we will need workers here. From Saturday onwards, tourists, travellers, students, and others, can apply to travel inter-state, through our website https://udupi.nic.in. Once we get all the duly filled applications, nodal officials will contact the concerned state administrative official, and after getting consent from them, they will be sent back. It’s a long process and takes time,” he said. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the district will also act as per the government SOP. In fact, the district administration has already started the process of developing the registration option in its portal, she said. Dakshina Kannada district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said that the district has been sending stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns, using KSRTC services. “There were more than 12,000 migrant labourers stranded in the district. Many are yet to be sent back. Meanwhile, more people are expected to return, once the one-time option to travel inter-state, is started for others,” he said. KSRTC Mangaluru division has already sent 142 buses from Mangaluru, to transport migrant labourers, with an average of 20-25 passengers in each vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-opens-online-registration-for-one-time-inter-state-travel/articleshow/75496379.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Labourers observe May Day by hoisting flags in houses||Trichy: The lockdown in place in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19 did not deter the spirit of the working class who observed the International Workers Day on Friday. Various trade unions in Trichy hoisted their flags at their offices, while observing social distancing. Labourers who could not reach the union offices hoisted their trade union flags in their houses.A few office bearers of trade unions including AITUC and CITU hoisted their respective trade union flags in Gandhi Market, Thanjavur road, EB road and Good Shed Road localities. Loadmen from Gandhi Market also hoisted their union flags while observing social distancing. The spirit of the workers who were engaged in their work even on the International Workers Day to contain the spread of Covid-19 was acknowledged. “To avoid crowding, we told our union members to hoist flags at their houses. We have raised a demand that the government provide a minimum of Rs 6,000 per family as compensation for the labourers whose employment is affected due to the lockdown,” G K Ramar, urban district president of CITU said. Stating that the logistics companies in Trichy city are not supporting the livelihood of workers depended on them during the curfew, CITU sought the state government insist the employers to provide essential commodities to the labourers’ families. The unions also sought a special package for the autorickshaw drivers whose livelihood has been severely impacted during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/labourers-observe-may-day-by-hoisting-flags-in-houses/articleshow/75498425.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Body of 6-month-old girl abandoned by parents buried||Ahmedabad: The body of the six-month-old baby girl, abandoned by her parents in Civil hospital on Tuesday, was buried on Friday by a charitable organization in the presence of police officials.The burial took place at a crematorium in Saijpur Bogha, with religious rites being performed by the charitable organization run by Praveensinh Darbar of Naroda. The girl’s parents fled to Sarthuva village in Dungarpur, leaving the body on a Civil hospital bed because they feared getting infected with coronavirus. Naroda police, which had registered a case of accidental death, on Friday received the medical report confirming that the girl had no Covid-19 infection. She had been admitted with high fever.Inspector Jaydeep Patel said that after getting the report, police and the charitable trust took the custody of the body and organized the last rites.Bharat Damor and his wife had come to Civil hospital with their girl on Monday. Police officials said that the parents thought that the baby had died of Covid-19.Inspector Patel said that the parents of the girl were traced and contacted through the Dhambola police station of Dungarpur. The parents refused to come to Ahmedabad for the last rites and gave an undertaking to let Naroda police cremate the baby according to government norms.“They have also mentioned in their statement recorded by Dhambola police that at present they are under quarantine and cannot come to Ahmedabad,” Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/body-of-6-month-old-girl-abandoned-by-parents-buried/articleshow/75497885.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||SHG women keep community toilets in slums operational||Trichy: Self-help group (SHG) women are rising up to the occasion and operating community toilets in the city despite the fear of Covid-19 spread. The city has around 430 community toilets, a majority of them maintained by the She (Sanitation and Hygiene Education) teams comprising SHG women. By collecting a minimal user fee, the SHG women were maintaining the toilets. Located in the slums that do not have access to safe toilets, the community toilets despite being a paid one received the support of locals. Initially, there was worry over the covid-19 spread and possible impact in the functioning of community toilets post the lockdown. City Wide Inclusive Sanitation (CWIS) project for which Trichy was selected as one of the four towns/cities in the country had provided the safety gears, disinfectants and sanitisers to the women maintaining 120 community toilets here. “We pitched in and provided the required safety gears. We instilled confidence in the SHG workers through sensitization drives,” Niladri Chakraborty, team lead, CWIS Trichy said. SHG women upon being provided with the safety gears displayed the courage to maintain the community toilets.Maintaining social distancing and insisting the people to sanitize hands before and after using the toilets, the SHE teams continue to maintain the toilets everyday. “People are obeying our instructions. We will continue to use hand gloves and face mask,” Selva Mary, an SHG member from Krishnamoorthy Nagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shg-women-keep-community-toilets-in-slums-operational/articleshow/75498434.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Isha founder’s painting fetches Rs 4.14 crore in online auction||COIMBATORE: An abstract painting by founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev fetched a whopping Rs 4.14 crore at an online auction. The money will be used to fund Isha Outreach’s Covid-19 relief efforts in the rural parts of Tamil Nadu, a spokesperson said. The 5ft x 5ft ‘To Live Totally!’ on canvas was up for auction on the Isha Outreach website for more than a month. The spiritual leader had recently announced that whoever donates the maximum amount to the #BeattheVirus fund, will get the painting. #BeattheVirus is Isha’s on-ground campaign to prevent the pandemic from entering the villages of Thondamuthur block, which have over two lakh residents. Vasudev, popularly called Sadhguru, said it was “not much of a painting” and that he is “not much of a painter”. Nearly 700 Isha volunteers are delivering freshly cooked meals in the villages during the lockdown. “Though the government and the administrations are doing much to reach out to the poorest of the poor in society, still, many shall fall through the cracks. It is the responsibility of every citizen to ensure nobody goes into starvation mode,” said Sadhguru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/isha-founders-painting-fetches-rs-4-14-crore-in-online-auction/articleshow/75497892.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Staff crunch continues in Delhi as borders stay closed||NEW DELHI: With the rest of the national capital region tightening the interstate movement norms, Delhi — with its all 11 districts in the red zone — is battling to gather the daily workforce required to implement the anti-novel coronavirus drive. While senior municipal officials admitted that the operations had been impacted to an extent, they refused to comment on the new restrictions imposed by the Haryana districts, including Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat, and the Noida and Ghaziabad authorities in Uttar Pradesh. The civic bodies were already managing with a curtailed workforce as close to 10% of the staff — who are above 55 years or have any pre-existing serious ailment — have been sent on leave on the health ground since the outbreak of Covid-19. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official said the attendance of staff had progressively gone down in the past few days. While 5,228 sanitation workers were absent on Tuesday and 5,351 on Wednesday, the number jumped to 6,913 on Thursday. Domestic mosquito breeding checkers and field workers from the public health department aren’t unaffected either. SDMC’s 230 DBCs, involved in disinfecting premises with handheld pumps, were absent on Friday while around 200 field workers were also missing. The Centre needs to intervene in resolving the situation as sanitation efforts in the containment zones will also be affected, said an official. SDMC has arranged for temporary shelters and announced reimbursement for interstate workers to stay in Delhi. Following the incentives announced on Wednesday, a slight improvement in attendance was noticed with 1,129 public health field workers reporting for duty on Friday against 1,036 on Wednesday. An official of North Delhi Municipal Corporation said 15-20% of its employees were absent on Friday. The corporation has six zones and around 10% of its 50,000 workers are also not working due to the age issue. A deputy commissioner claimed that while some workers were indeed facing problems at borders, they were some habitual offenders too. “We have no mechanism to check if a grievance is genuine. We are managing the situation by utilising the available manpower,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/staff-crunch-continues-as-borders-stay-closed/articleshow/75498438.cms||Paras Singh
May 2, 2020||India||From Delhi to Bihar on cycle, migrant dies in UP||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old migrant worker who was on his way back to Bihar from Delhi on his bicycle with a group died on National Highway-24 in Shahjahanpur after his condition suddenly deteriorated on Friday morning. The man, identified as Dharamveer, was a resident of Khareta village in Bihar’s Khagaria district. He was one of the seven members of the group that decided to rest near an under-construction toll plaza when it suddenly started to rain on Thursday night. On Friday morning, Dharamveer complained of chest pain and difficulty in breathing and died before receiving any medical attention. His sample was sent for Covid-19 test and the body would be sent for postmortem after receiving the test report on Saturday. The health department has also quarantined all the other six migrant labourers in the group following medical screening. Shahjahanpur Kotwali SHO Pravesh Singh said, “Health officials have quarantined other members of the group. We have informed the victim’s family in Bihar.” Watch From Delhi to Bihar on bicycle, migrant worker meets tragic death in Shahjahanpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-delhi-to-bihar-on-cycle-migrant-dies-in-up/articleshow/75499169.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 2, 2020||Erode||Techie heeds dad’s words and lands in isolation ward||Erode: An IT employee, who was travelling to Erode from Chennai on his bike, has been lodged at a quarantine ward in IRT government hospital in Perundurai for 14 days. Doctors have collected swab samples from him.S Manikandan, 21, of Chidambaram colony at Periyar Nagar in Erode, was working in an IT firm in Chennai. He was stuck in Chennai and wanted to come back home, said Sekar, his father.On Thursday evening, Sekar informed his son Manikandan that Erode had become became free of Covid-19 after all patients were discharged. “He insisted his son to come home on his bike,” said a police officer from Erode town police station. Manikandan started his journey in Chennai around 10 pm and reached Erode at 8 am on Friday.Sekar’s neighbours alerted police about Manikandan’s arrival from Chennai. Police and health department officials picked up Manikandan for inquiry and then sent him to the quarantine centre at IRT hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/techie-heeds-dads-words-and-lands-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/75497902.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Muted farewell for TNSTC staff retiring during lockdown||Trichy: Around 45 TNSTC employees in various ranks including conductors and ticket checkers have retired from Trichy region comprising 13 depots in Trichy, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts on April 30. As the retiring employees could not reach their depots owing to the lockdown, branch managers delivered a cheque to pay a portion of retirement benefits and a sandalwood garland at the doorstep of retiring staff. This is a shift from the routine in TNSTC history as the send-off party means a lot for the transport employees. The employees who are about to retire prepare for the D-day a month in advance as invitations for the send-off party would be prepared by then. “TNSTC employees retiring from the service value the feedback they get from their colleagues on retirement day. Since their family members will be present, the one final day is precious for us as we share interesting moments in our service,” a senior official with TNSTC Trichy region said. Though the retiring employees understand the current situation and acknowledge the need to suspend celebrations, the lockdown has indeed made them feel unlucky. “After retiring from the service, our colleagues will drop us home. It is a proud moment as we toiled for more than 30 years. Whoever retired during the lockdown will feel bad for missing out such moments,” said, P Gunasekar, a ticket checker who retired on April 30. The TNSTC depot buildings that look lifeless now would have otherwise been in a celebratory mood with music bands welcoming hundreds of guests for the retiring TNSTC employees. The situation is no different for other government employees who retired from their services on April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/muted-farewell-for-tnstc-staff-retiring-during-lockdown/articleshow/75498436.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||26% of 447 Covid-19 victims in Maharashtra had no health condition||MUMBAI: The share of individuals with no underlying health conditions succumbing to Covid-19 has been steadily rising in the state. An analysis of 447 deaths by the medical education department on Friday showed that 26% of the victims didn’t have any co-morbid conditions such as diabetes or hypertension. About two weeks ago when there were 178 deaths, this share was around 19%. State data also shows that while a majority of the deaths continue to be in the elderly age groups, mortalities are being recorded among teenagers and young adults. There have been two deaths in the 11-20 age bracket, and 10 in the age-group of 21-20 years. The worst hit are those between 51 and 60 years; 124 of the 413 analysed deaths took place in that age bracket. Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner of the National Health Mission, said cases of younger people dying of the infection are being closely analysed in the state. “In some, we found a history of alcoholism, kidney or liver problems. But our audits largely point towards a delay in seeking care,” he said. “In several, we found that they hadn’t accessed healthcare till about 12-13 days after the onset of symptoms,” Yadav added. ”In another tricky subgroup, there were some who were asymptomatic and by the time they reached hospital, they collapsed in hours,” Yadav added. A 53-year-old man, who was the first to receive plasma therapy in the city but died in Lilavati Hospital, had delayed coming to hospital by at least 10 day. Doctors said by the time he had reached, his lungs were done for. Accounts of families show that crucial time is often wasted as patients are shunted between hospitals. The brother of a 25-year-old Girgaum resident who died told TOI how they were turned away by two private hospitals. Kasturba Hospital finally admitted his brother, but he succumbed in three days. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, medical education secretary, said there were some social factors at play. “Many are delaying seeing a doctor as they are worried about being quarantined and taken away if Covid-19 is suspected. We are getting this feedback from several parts of the state that fear is keeping people away from seeking care,” he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria had said in Delhi the stigmatising of Covid-19 patients and their relatives were keeping people away. Doctors are also not ruling out the possibility of genetic predispositions making some healthy individuals more susceptible than the rest. Dr Mukesh Desai, chief immunologist at Wadia Hospital, said the severity of the disease often depends on how the host responds to the virus. “Genetic defects could make people more susceptible to a severe form of the infection. An international consortium is already studying that,” he said. Infectious diseases expert Dr Om Srivastava said the immune system of a healthy individual, if rendered dysfunctional due to lifestyles choices, could also see a critical manifestation of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/26-of-447-state-victims-had-no-health-condition/articleshow/75498440.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Pune||26% of 447 Covid-19 victims in Maharashtra had no health condition||MUMBAI: The share of individuals with no underlying health conditions succumbing to Covid-19 has been steadily rising in the state. An analysis of 447 deaths by the medical education department on Friday showed that 26% of the victims didn’t have any co-morbid conditions such as diabetes or hypertension. About two weeks ago when there were 178 deaths, this share was around 19%. State data also shows that while a majority of the deaths continue to be in the elderly age groups, mortalities are being recorded among teenagers and young adults. There have been two deaths in the 11-20 age bracket, and 10 in the age-group of 21-20 years. The worst hit are those between 51 and 60 years; 124 of the 413 analysed deaths took place in that age bracket. Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner of the National Health Mission, said cases of younger people dying of the infection are being closely analysed in the state. “In some, we found a history of alcoholism, kidney or liver problems. But our audits largely point towards a delay in seeking care,” he said. “In several, we found that they hadn’t accessed healthcare till about 12-13 days after the onset of symptoms,” Yadav added. ”In another tricky subgroup, there were some who were asymptomatic and by the time they reached hospital, they collapsed in hours,” Yadav added. A 53-year-old man, who was the first to receive plasma therapy in the city but died in Lilavati Hospital, had delayed coming to hospital by at least 10 day. Doctors said by the time he had reached, his lungs were done for. Accounts of families show that crucial time is often wasted as patients are shunted between hospitals. The brother of a 25-year-old Girgaum resident who died told TOI how they were turned away by two private hospitals. Kasturba Hospital finally admitted his brother, but he succumbed in three days. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, medical education secretary, said there were some social factors at play. “Many are delaying seeing a doctor as they are worried about being quarantined and taken away if Covid-19 is suspected. We are getting this feedback from several parts of the state that fear is keeping people away from seeking care,” he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria had said in Delhi the stigmatising of Covid-19 patients and their relatives were keeping people away. Doctors are also not ruling out the possibility of genetic predispositions making some healthy individuals more susceptible than the rest. Dr Mukesh Desai, chief immunologist at Wadia Hospital, said the severity of the disease often depends on how the host responds to the virus. “Genetic defects could make people more susceptible to a severe form of the infection. An international consortium is already studying that,” he said. Infectious diseases expert Dr Om Srivastava said the immune system of a healthy individual, if rendered dysfunctional due to lifestyles choices, could also see a critical manifestation of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/26-of-447-state-victims-had-no-health-condition/articleshow/75499773.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||90 new cases take state’s corona count to 2,715||Bhopal: With 90 new cases, the corona count in state reached 2,715. In addition, eight casualties were reported in Madhya Pradesh — four in Indore, two in Khandwa, one each in Shajapur and Ujjain, as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services, Madhya Pradesh. With this, the Covid death toll in state reached 145. The districts where new cases were reported are Indore (29), Bhopal (18), Mandsaur (15), Ujjain (9), Khargone (3), Jabalpur (2), Raisen (2), Dewas (2), Ratlam (2), Harda (2), Anuppur (2), Dhar (1), Morena (1), Shajapur (1) and Gwalior (1). As per the state health bulletin, of the total patients who are admitted at different hospitals across the state, the condition of 54 is critical and 1992 patients are said to be in stable condition. Of the 54 critical patients, 45 are admitted at Indore, 2 in Bhopal and 7 in Ujjain districts. Meanwhile, 42 patients also recovered on Friday, says the bulletin. With this, total number of patients who have recovered from Covid has reached 524. As per the state health bulletin, test reports of 44,116 suspected patients have been received so far in the entire state and of those patients — out of which 2,715 have tested positive. Six out of every 100 patient whose samples were taken were tested positive in state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/90-new-cases-take-states-corona-count-to-2715/articleshow/75497254.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrant workers who want to go to UP by train can register: Collector||Ahmedabad: The district collectorate has begun registering migrant workers who wish to return to Uttar Pradesh by special trains. District collector K K Nirala said that as soon as 1,200 persons register for a particular district or station, train arrangements will be made. “Our mamlatdar offices and other centres have begun registering migrant workers who wish to go to UP. It must be clarified that the workers will pay the train fare,” the district collector said. He added that as of now, the Ahmedabad district collectorate is making train arrangements for migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh only. Meanwhile sources in the railways said that a train for Lucknow was scheduled to leave on Saturday with migrant workers, but has been cancelled. The government has decided to run special trains to transport migrant workers from different states to their respective states. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrant-workers-who-want-to-go-to-up-by-train-can-register-collector/articleshow/75497893.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Tireless Hyderabad cop a ray of hope for needy||HYDERABAD: Ever since the lockdown was announced, it has been a 24x7 job for SR Nagar police inspector S Murali Krishna, who has stopped going home for the last several days so that he is available at the police station to address the issues of the people, especially the needy. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he has not stepped out of his PS limits ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown on March 24. “He has not gone home for the last 37 days and intends to put in all efforts in the days to come to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” a constable said. With Krishna at the helm, cops have taken it upon themselves to distribute food to the hungry and needy in the areas falling under the SR Nagar PS limits. They have also distributed groceries in some localities. A cook has been hired to prepare food for at least 150 people every day at the PS. “My family understands the kind of work I do. They also understand the situation because of the coronavirus outbreak and they do not complain,” Krishna, who resides in Vanasthalipuram, told TOI. Apart from enforcing the lockdown, Krishna makes himself available to the public all the time. An ante room in the PS is where he sleeps. With their boss staying put in the PS itself, SIs have also started staying back to be available 24 hours on the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tireless-cop-a-ray-of-hope-for-needy/articleshow/75497906.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Boy arrested for raping, impregnating minor girl||The Golden Rock all-women police station (AWPS) has arrested a 16-year-old boy for sexually assaulting and impregnating a girl of his age in Trichy city. The girl who was undergoing check-up at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) is five months pregnant. It was her mother who brought the crime to light last week leading to the boy’s arrest on Tuesday. Police said the girl and boy were classmates till class IX at a government school in the city and were in love. The boy discontinued his education after that while she is studying in class X now. Despite leaving school, the boy was in touch with the girl resulting in a sexual relationship. According to her complaint, the boy sexually assaulted the girl on October 20 last year and continued it several times after that. The girl became pregnant but her family members were unaware of it. When they came to know about it, her parents lodged a police complaint. Both of them belonged to different castes. The boy has been booked under various Acts including protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) Act. He was produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) on East Boulevard road which ordered him to be kept at the government observation home. The decision on whether to continue the pregnancy or not will be taken after considering her health and legal factors, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-arrested-for-raping-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/75498439.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Probe BJP ministers’ graft allegations: Goa Congress to governor||PANAJI: With two BJP ministers trading allegations of corruption, Congress on Friday said that governor Satya Pal Malik should verify the allegations and if required, dismiss the Pramod Sawant-led government. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that “documented proof of the corruption” of several BJP ministers in Goa exposes the loss to the state exchequer “necessitating the dismissal” of Sawant and his cabinet. “The governor should seek an explanation from the chief minister about the statements made by deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and ports minister Michael Lobo trading charges in public, acknowledging that there is gross corruption. ” Chodankar said. Congress was reacting to Ajgaonkar’s reported statement that no MLA in the state was free of corruption. Lobo has also made a public statement alleging that law and order issues in Pernem had political patronage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-bjp-ministers-graft-allegations-goa-congress-to-governor/articleshow/75499168.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 2, 2020||Goa||Probe BJP mantris’ graft allegations: Cong to guv||Panaji: With two BJP ministers trading allegations of corruption, Congress on Friday said that governor Satya Pal Malik should verify the allegations and if required, dismiss the Pramod Sawant-led government. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that “documented proof of the corruption” of several BJP ministers in Goa exposes the loss to the state exchequer “necessitating the dismissal” of Sawant and his cabinet. “The governor should seek an explanation from the chief minister about the statements made by deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and ports minister Michael Lobo trading charges in public, acknowledging that there is gross corruption. ” Chodankar said. Congress was reacting to Ajgaonkar’s reported statement that no MLA in the state was free of corruption. Lobo has also made a public statement alleging that law and order issues in Pernem had political patronage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-bjp-mantris-graft-allegations-cong-to-guv/articleshow/75498442.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai dist admin checks crowding at fish market by allowing home delivery||Trichy: While Pudukottai district administration has made arrangements for door delivery of essentials like milk, medicine and vegetables during the lockdown, fish too has been added to the list.The contact numbers of fish sellers in each area has been shared by the district administration Meat shops and fish markets are among the places where the administration is facing challenges in ensuring social distancing. While these shops had to be closed during weekends due to overwhelming crowds throwing social distancing to the wind, the same was seen on weekdays when the shops are kept open. “Meat and fish shops turned out to be real challenge in maintaining social distancing. Therefore, it was decided to have protein rich fish delivered to door steps of the family who wants to order them,” said a senior official from the Pudukottai district administration. “Pudukottai has seen just one positive case so far and we have been able to effectively contain the spread. We want to ensure that less number of people venture out even to get essentials. By making door delivery of essentials and other edibles, we can ensure that people stay indoors,” said the official. People can call MPS Palaniappan fish stall on 9443720654 and 8903384654, RR Prabakaran fishstall on 9943921960 and 9659870266, MPS Annadurai on 9865920646, MRS Baskaran on 9942940546 and 6381496621. Home delivery of the fish will be made at the door step at a reasonable price from 6am to 1pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-dist-admin-checks-crowding-at-fish-market-by-allowing-home-delivery/articleshow/75498443.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hubballi||Stranded persons to be sent home||HUBBALLI: Dharwad district administration has asked migrant labourers, students and stranded tourists, including pilgrims, to register their names to return to their native places. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said that those who want to return to their native places should register their details at the nearest gram panchayats, tahsildar’s office, police station, CMC or city municipal corporation in person or can call 1077, or send a message on WhatsApp to 9449847646 and 9449847641. They will have to bear the transportation cost. Once the government issues guidelines, the district administration will make travel arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stranded-persons-to-be-sent-home/articleshow/75496412.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Business||Aarogya Setu app to be mandatory for all employees before resumption of work||NEW DELHI: Amid a debate over the practicality of making it mandatory for public and private sector employees to download the Aarogya Setu App, sources said the law empowers authorities to seek full compliance. The home ministry guidelines issued on Friday said use of Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for all employees, both private and public. It said it will be the responsibility of the head of the organisation to ensure compliance. The Aarogya Setu App is expected to be downloaded when employees resume work. Sources said the head of the organisation will have to issue an order or letter urging employees to download the App which is seen by the government as a key tool to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Source acknowledged that given limited penetration of smart phones, the effort may be more of nudge now but the government remains serious about promoting its use. Those in containment zones will have to download the App. "The head of the organisation will have to issue a letter to employees saying you are expected to download this App," an official said. He said this is part of the standard operating procedures including sanitation that has to be followed before resumption of work. The use of Aarogya Setu App is part of Annexure I of the home ministry guidelines which highlight the national directives for Covid-19 management. Annexure 2 of the guidelines outlines the offences and penalties for violation of lockdown measures. It has specific punishment for obstruction, false claim or warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aarogya-setu-app-to-be-mandatory-for-all-employees-before-resumption-of-work-in-office/articleshow/75499172.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi corporation teachers to get a month’s pay||NEW DELHI: A day after North Delhi Municipal Corporation school teachers announced that they would go on mass leave on Monday to protest non-payment of salary for three months, the civic agency has decided to take a loan and disburse a month’s salary. Following a meeting on Friday, north corporation commissioner Varsha Joshi tweeted: “Giving one-month salary to municipal teachers after taking a loan in view of the difficulties they are facing. Hoping our troubles will end soon. Trying hard for the same.” @Praveen87297102 Giving one months salary today to teachers m pl. On loan, in view of the difficulties you are all… https://t.co/AOCOSTwbqF— Varsha Joshi (@suraiya95) 1588319887000While the salaries are expected to be credited in the employees’ accounts early next week, deliberative wing also assured the teachers association of arranging the remaining two months’ salary by next week. “I request the teachers to cancel their mass leave decision at this crucial time when we have to work together to fight the pandemic. We give assurance that we all are raising your demands at every platform,” tweeted Jai Prakash, standing committee chairman. मैं @SNMNDMC से अपील करता हूँ की अपना सामूहिक अवकाश हड़ताल को वापस लेलें , यह समय बहुत नाज़ुक है और हम सबको मिलकर… https://t.co/xrO4Gu3aeb— Jai Prakash (@JPBhaiBJP) 1588329252000East corporation officials, too, spoke to the teachers in their jurisdiction on Friday, to consider their demands for no deduction in travel allowance. The teachers also want that they should not be marked absent on days they could not reach schools due to the lockdown. Teachers of schools in south and east corporations had also announced to join the north corporation teachers in the mass leave. Later on Friday, the teachers associations decided to wait for another week and postponed the mass leave decision. “We will wait for next week and then take further decision,” said Kuldeep Khatri, president of Shikshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-teachers-to-get-a-months-pay/articleshow/75498453.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||DCPs, SPs can also issue inter-state emergency passes||HYDERABAD: As people from other states, who are in medical emergencies, and those who have lost family members are finding it extremely difficult to approach the DGP office and the Commissioners of police to obtain emergency passes, permission has been given to DCPs and SPs to issue emergency passes from Friday. After news about migrant workers leaving the city in a special train started flashing on TV channels, several migrant workers started approaching state police headquarters seeking permission to return to their native places and formed a line along with emergency pass seekers. However, Saifabad police explained the situation to them and made them leave the place. As the demand for inter-state travel passes increased, government issued new guidelines on Friday. As per the new guidelines issued by the government, zonal DCPs and SPs can now issue inter-state emergency passes to people who need to travel due to death in the family or for those who have medical emergencies and also for those who are stranded here due to lockdown. But students and migrant workers are excluded from the list. Police have also been asked to permit vehicles carrying construction material as construction activity has been allowed for the ventures where workers are available on-site in the camps. Permission has also been given to brick kilns and stone crushers to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dcps-sps-can-also-issue-inter-state-emergency-passes/articleshow/75497916.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Over 600 labourers from Jaisalmer leave for Uttarakhand, UP by road||JAISALMER: After those from Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, over 600 labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand were sent home from Jaisalmer on Friday evening. As many as 300 labourers from Uttarakhand were sent in seven buses and 350 labourers from UP were sent in eight buses. Most of the labourers have been sent back to their states from Jaisalmer and only around 400 labourers are left behind, who are from Bihar and other states. There has been no information from Bihar with regard to their return. District collector Namit Mehta said that there were around 1,000 migrant labourers, of which 650 from UP and Uttarakhand were sent back to their home states on Friday evening. They were sent in 15 buses. Seven buses left for Haridwar carrying the Uttarakhand labourers and eight buses left for Bharatpur carrying the UP labourers. On Wednesday, around 18,000 from Madhya Pradesh, 3,500 from Punjab were sent back. On Thursday, 1,000 labourers were sent back to Haryana. Earlier, around 14,000 labourers from various districts of Rajasthan were sent back to their districts. He said prior to sending back these labourers, medical tests were done and buses were sanitised and food was given to them. These labourers were sent from Jaisalmer city, Sutharmandi, Jawahar Nagar, Sultana, Nehdai, PTM, Mohangarh, Deva, Boha, Kabir Basti, Ramgarh, Chandhan etc. The migrant workers expressed their gratitude to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the stage government, and thanked the district administration for arranging food for them and their stay at shelter homes. The labourers also thanked the philanthropists and volunteers. Meanwhile, labourers from Rajasthan stranded in other states are coming back. On Thursday night, total 391 labourers came to Barmer from six states and in last three days, total 989 migrants from six states have come to Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-600-labourers-from-jaisalmer-leave-for-uttarakhand-up-by-road/articleshow/75497952.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Shack owners ask for waiver of licence fee||Saligao: President of the All Goa Traditional Shack Owners Association Manuel Cardozo has appealed to the chief minister and the tourism minister to provide them relief in the form of compensation due to the losses incurred on account of the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking to reporters, Cardozo demanded a complete waiver of the licence fees for the next tourism season. “This is the worst ever tourism season for shack owners and other stakeholders,” he said. Cardozo also claimed that “lakhs of rupees belonging to the shack owners were pending with the tourism department” and demanded that the government release the money at the earliest. “The authorities have stated that the next season might only start in December, so there is not much scope for business. We have already suffered losses due to last year’s extended rains,” said Cardozo. He added that social distancing norms would further affect business. The next tourism season is looking bleak for the shack business, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-owners-ask-for-waiver-of-licence-fee/articleshow/75498450.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Return of TN migrants poses fresh challenge, 52 quarantined in Trichy||Trichy: As Trichy district moved to the orange zone due to absence of any new positive case since April 22 as well as other factors, the district administration was faced with the fresh challenge of quarantining migrant labourers who have started returning. “We have home-quarantined 52 migrant labourers who reached Trichy today. None of them had symptoms, yet we have lifted samples from 12 of them randomly,” collector S Sivarasu told TOI. The labourers, residents of rural Trichy, have returned from Chennai, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi by trucks and cars, and more are expected in the coming days. There have been no new cases in the city from April 17 and in rural Trichy from April 22. However, the district administration as well as health officials were apprehensive about these labourers testing positive in the coming days because of their travel history. The district has four active cases being treated at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) as of Friday while 47 have been discharged. After testing close and family contacts of the patients, the district administration has taken samples from 928 pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) in the 25 containment zones. Trichy city police also took proactive steps to keep up the morale of their police officers and personnel by taking the swabs of policemen on frontline duty at the isolation ward at MGMGH and the nine containment zones in Trichy city. Samples were lifted from 60 police personnel, though they did not show any symptoms, and they were subjected to Covid-19 test at MGMGH. As the results of 40 of them were out, all of them tested negative. The results of 20 more samples were awaited. “We have arranged for the tests for our people on frontline duties as a pre-emptive measure to ensure the safety and health of the officers and policemen. It will boost the confidence level of those guarding the containment zones and isolation wards,” city police commissioner of V Varadharaju told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/return-of-tn-migrants-poses-fresh-challenge-52-quarantined-in-trichy/articleshow/75498449.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Goa government hikes compensation for people, livestock attacked by wild animals||PANAJI: Three months after five tigers were allegedly poisoned in the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary by tribal villagers to stop attacks on their cattle, the forest department has notified a scheme increasing compensation paid to affected families. A compensation of Rs 10 lakh will be paid to the family of the deceased killed by a wild animal. In case of a permanent disability, compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be paid. A person losing his cattle to an attack by a wild animal will be eligible to receive compensation of up to Rs 50,000. The compensation amount will depend on the type of cattle and its breed. The poisoning incident brought to the fore that villagers whose cattle fell prey to wild animal attacks in the past, had not received much help from the government, despite losing a source of income. The claims were not settled for months and there were demands to increase the compensation. The restructured scheme — compensation for damage by wild animals — also aims to simplify the procedure for determination and disbursement of compensation to the affected party. Under the scheme, compensation for attack on humans by wild animals will be admissible to residents of the area or authorised visitors only, if the incident has occurred within the premises of a wildlife sanctuary or national park. If an attack takes place outside a wildlife sanctuary or national park, the scheme mandates that compensation shall be available to any person attacked. The scheme mandates that an early investigation into the attack has to be initiated by the range forest officer and an applicant has to submit his claim within three days of the incident. In cases of loss of human life, the claim needs to be settled within three working days after receipt of the victim’s postmortem report.  For claims pertaining to death of cattle due to an attack by a wild animal, the owner will have to submit his claim along with the postmortem report within three days to the RFO. The nearest veterinary officer must visit the site within 48 hours of receipt of the complaint and furnish a certificate mentioning the loss in rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-hikes-compensation-for-people-livestock-attacked-by-wild-animals/articleshow/75498445.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Textile units in Karur may work, but won’t sustain sans new orders||Karur: As the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has come down to just one, which was reported on Friday, textile units in the rural parts is likely to be partially opened. Opening the units may be a temporary measure to revive the industry, but without fresh orders they may be able to remain open for a month only. Senior officials from the district administration said that industrial units located in less populated rural areas may be opened-up to for industrial activity once the lockdown norms are relaxed in select districts. Home textile products manufactured in the district are exported to European and American countries and unless the situation normalises in these countries they may not get new orders. “About 70 textile manufacturing units located in the rural parts of the district have been identified which may be operated if the lockdown norms are relaxed,” said Karur Textile Manufacturer Exporters Association president Atlas M Natchimuthu. “Even if we work here with 50% work force, all of them may not have work. Further, work will be available for a maximum of one month to finish pending works,” said Natchimuthu. “We do not have money for rotation as payment from the buyers has been delayed for the goods received. Some of the buyers have cancelled the order and some have postponed the orders,” he added. With a turnover of Rs 3,000- Rs 4,000 crore, the home textile export manufacturing being the largest industrial activity in Karur with about 600 units across the district. He said about 30%-50% of the workforce will be engaged in the initial days and they will be brought in buses. Passes will be issued to workers accordingly. Mosquito net manufacturing is another major activity in Karur with about 100 big and small manufacturing units during its peak. “Though it would be better if manufacturing starts once Covid-19 settles down, we are ready to start operation with strict measures at place,” said R Kuppurao, from Karur Traditional HDPE Yarn and Mosquito Net Knitted Fabrics Manufacturing Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/textile-units-in-karur-may-work-but-wont-sustain-sans-new-orders/articleshow/75498446.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan borders witness massive influx of migrants from Gujarat||JODHPUR: Sirohi has opened its borders for migrants from Gujarat and other southern states. Thousands of migrants are now reaching the border of Sirohi at its Mawal and Madar checkposts by different means to enter Rajasthan. According to an estimate, 5,980 migrants from other states have crossed the border and over 60,000 have registered themselves, which include both inbound and outbound migrants. All the migrants reaching the border at these checkposts are now being allowed in the district, irrespective of the permission from the state of their origin, after the intervention of Sirohi MLA Sanyam Lodha. Earlier, district magistrate of Sirohi Bhagwati Prasad had written letters to the administrations of the Gujarat’s hotspot districts not to give permission to those migrants who had not been living in the government quarantine centres. “But since such migrants also started leaving after learning about the opening of borders and they got stuck at the border. Lodha ji visited the border to take a stock of the situation and got them permission to enter the state,” said a Congress worker. Interestingly, many such migrants, who applied online, set-off assuming the receipt of the online application as permit for entry. This huge influx has resulted in a massive gathering of migrants on the state border, which has been taking a toll on the administrative resources engaged in recording the data and screening of migrants. “We had not been expecting such influx of migrants given the previous orders. The arrangements had been made keeping in view that only migrants from quarantine centres of the hotspot districts of Gujarat would be entertained first and that too only from Mawal checkpost and others will have to register themselves online,” said an administrative official adding that it is getting unmanageable now. On the other hand, the Jalore administration has also been receiving migrants in large numbers from its Makhupura border post and has focused its attention on villages while sending locals with advice of home isolation. “So far, 4,804 migrants from states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, AP, MP, TN, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Goa have entered through Jalore border,” said Jalore DM Himanshu Gupta, adding that 1,147 migrants left Jalore for other states. “We have made it essential for each migrant to fill a bond stating that he or she would remain in home isolation for 14 days and similar bonds by two neighbours, who would ensure that the migrant followed the isolation protocol strictly.” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-borders-witness-massive-influx-of-migrants-from-guj/articleshow/75497954.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Dome-shaped chapel to get new lease of life||Panaji: With the roof of the unique dome-shaped Dom Lourenco chapel in the heart of the city lying open, just as in July last year, heritage lovers have raised the alarm about its fate in yet another monsoon season.Gusty winds blew off the protective cover that had been installed by the directorate of fire services personnel last year. At the peak of monsoon in 2019, the roof of the 190-odd-year-old chapel near Hotel Mandovi had collapsed. The iconic chapel, partly concealed by other buildings, is one of the few heritage landmarks in the city with a changing landscape. Popularly known as Capela de Dom Lourenco, it was built by the nobleman and rebuilt by his grandson’s widow, Dona Juliana Maria da Silva Telo e Menezes in 1827.On noticing the historic chapel’s appalling condition, Oscar de Noronha, a history researcher, who had also raised the issue last year, immediately took recourse to the social media. “With the monsoons now fast approaching, what the fate of the chapel will be is anybody’s guess,” he wrote.The appeal for urgent repairs stirred some heritage lovers and concerned citizens, including an architect, Fernando Velho offered his services gratis to the cause.The post has also activated the Confraria of the nearby Immaculate Conception Church, and preparations are under way for a site visit. “We have consulted architects and hope to start work next week. Covid-19 also came in our way,” Oscar Vaz, Confraria president, said. Architect Tulio de Souza and conservation architect, Ketak Nachinolkar are on board to prepare plans for the restoration.The proposal has been hanging in the balance since 2013, when town and country planning department had approved an allocation for its restoration. “Since monsoon is approaching, we are only trying to mount the roof to prevent further deterioration of the existing structure – the walls and the interiors which include the altar,” de Souza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dome-shaped-chapel-to-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/75498454.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 2, 2020||India||‘Need clear guidelines to counter profiteering and low-grade kits’||MUMBAI: With the country already reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic, patients and consumers are now raising concerns over unethical practices like price gouging and selling of sub-standard quality N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Prices of N95 masks have increased by nearly four times, while different prices are being charged for PPEs across the country, with their quality also being suspect. Industry experts have also said that false and fake certification is rampant and fly-by-night manufacturers have surfaced in the absence of clear product specifications and monitoring by government. Prices of surgical masks were capped by the government in March to plug overcharging, while N95 masks were not included in the notification. With the exceptions of masks, there is no clarity or uniform guidelines on the protective gear specification for health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers, resulting in some of them buying sub-standard kits from dubious manufacturers. “The Union health ministry in ‘Rational Use of PPEs’ has laid down guidelines only for a few categories of healthcare workers, while other organisations are required to use them as per hospital infection control policy, hence, we request government to provide standard guidelines for each category of workers,” Dr Sanjiiiv, chairman, PWMAI (Preventive Wear Manufacturers’ Association of India) told TOI, adding that this is leading to confusion. There is also a demand for clear national standards to be set by Bureau of Indian Standards for specification of each category/ product of PPEs so that MRP can be capped. “In order to protect consumers, MRP of PPE and other Covid-relevant medical devices needs to be capped at a reasonable level. We suggest an MRP of around four times the ex-factory price or import-landed price. It is difficult to cap prices for PPE in the absence of clear BIS standards as these have to be co-related to a defined product specification/ category, so it’s imperative that BIS releases these standards after due consultation with stakeholders,” Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of AiMeD, industry body of domestic medical devices said. “There has been a proliferation of PPE manufacturers, many of which are new entrants trying to take advantage of the situation caused by pandemic and operating without necessary quality compliance. This has also led to a sellers’ market with outrageous quotations for PPE components”, Malini Aisola, co-convenor of All India Drug Action Network told TOI. The price of a PPE kit by state-owned HLL Lifecare, which is designated as a single-window procurement agency for Central government hospitals, is around Rs 1,100. However, kits are being sold for as low as Rs 250 in the private sector but these kits are suspected to be substandard and without a proper barrier to protect against microbes and fluids, an industry expert said. In certain cases, patients are being billed as high as Rs 1,500-2,000 for PPE kits, by hospitals. “Most private hospitals are billing patients for PPEs and the charges can vary widely, depending on the treatment and hospital. Even the patients, whose treatment is covered under Ayushman Bharat, are being forced to pay for PPEs out of their pockets. For example, if a patient, covered for dialysis under Ayushman Bharat, is asked to pay Rs 170 for PPEs everytime he/she goes for dialysis, as was being done by one private hospital in Jaipur, the patient actually ends up paying Rs 1,360 a month, considering that he/she would need this treatment at least twice a week. Recently, Rajasthan released an order warning private hospitals to refrain from charging extra from patients, apart from what they are entitled to as per the package rates fixed under insurance scheme. However, in the lack of any monitoring, how much would this order get implemented, we will have to see,” says Chhaya Pachauli, director at Prayas and member Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. Rama Venugopal executive director, Value Added Corporate Services, who has experience in industry’s regulatory requirements said that the market is rampant with fraudulent and sub-standard products, with huge markups and price fluctuations, hence government inspectors should monitor and visit these units. Dr Sameer Agarwal , president of Practicing Pathologists Society, Rajasthan said that there is a huge mark-up in prices of N95 masks, which are now being sold around Rs 250-300 a piece, with GST being charged anywhere between 5%-18%. The Supreme Court recently asked the Centre to provide PPE kits to health workers working in ‘non-Covid treatment areas’ too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-clear-guidelines-to-counter-profiteering-and-low-grade-kits/articleshow/75498456.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Woman and 10-year-old son electrocuted in Barmer district||JAISALMER: A woman and her 10-year-old son died after being electrocuted at Manjal village under Samdadi police station area in Barmer district on Friday. The bodies were kept at the mortuary of a government hospital and were later handed over to the family members after postmortem. According to information from Samdadi police station area, Rewat Singh, a resident of Manjal, gave a report to the police that his wife Hina Kanwar (35) was putting the clothes on a clothes line to dry. Close to it, a wire which had live current running through it snapped and her 10-year-old son Suraj Pal Singh came into contact with the wire. Kanwar raised an alarm and tried to rescue her son by holding him and was herself electrocuted in the process. People from the neighbourhood reached the spot and took both the woman and her son to the community health centre at Samdadi, where the doctors declared them dead. Based on the husband’s report, police have lodged the case and started investigation. Police said that at the time of the incident, the woman’s husband was in the fields. He said a wire had been tied at their house for drying clothes and close to that was an electric wire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-and-10-year-old-son-electrocuted-in-barmer-district/articleshow/75497949.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Pune||From bypass to cancer operations, Maharashtra caps hospital charges for uninsured||MUMBAI:In a first, the state government has invoked five Acts, including the Epidemic Diseases and Disaster Management Act, to cap treatment rates for the uninsured at private hospitals. The decision to fix hospital package costs for 173 common procedures has been prompted by numerous profiteering complaints against hospitals from both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients. The public health department issued a notification on Thursday to regulate rates for angiography, bypass, knee and hip replacement, cataract, hernia, normal and Caesarean deliveries, and even cancer surgeries till the pandemic ends. The order said hospitals cannot charge a mark-up fee of more than 10% on the net procurement cost of consumables such as personal protective equipment or for other items. City hospitals call reduced treatment rates ‘impractical’The state notification says items such as implants, lenses, catheter balloons, orthopaedic prosthesis, stents, staplers and pacemakers cannot have a markup of more than 10%. The rates will be in force till the pandemic ends, the state said. Following the notification, even the city’s swankiest hospital, for instance, cannot charge an uninsured person more than Rs 12,000 for an angiography, Rs 75,000 for a normal delivery or Rs 86,250 for a C-section. Top city hospitals charge Rs 35,000 to a lakh for an angiography. Sources said the intention was also to rein in some five star private hospitals (a majority of which are trust-run) and are not under the General Insurance Public Sector Association (GIPSA)—a group made up of four public sector insurance companies—or any of the state insurance schemes, and have a free hand at charging patients. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said people have paid up to a lakh for a single day’s treatment in a Mumbai private hospital. “While those with an insurance cover are anyway secure and pay set charges, it’s the uninsured who are being charged exorbitantly,” said the minister. A state source said hospital bills would be monitored and any violation could attract action under the Epidemic Act that has provisions for six-month imprisonment or fine, or both. The notification has reiterated that charitable hospitals should reserve 10% of their beds for the poor and 10% at concessional rates in accordance with the Bombay Public Trusts Act. The notification has also brought in regulations for hospitals under GIPSA’s Preferred Provider Network (PPN). It said if an uninsured patient were to take treatment there, they cannot be charged more than the rate for the lowest bed category, irrespective of the class the patient is admitted in. This clause will also help an insured person who has exhausted his insurance cover, as once his limit has been exceeded, he has to be extended the lowest bed charges. Over 90% of hospitals in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune are a part of GIPSA’s PPN, the state said. For hospitals beyond Mumbai and Pune, where most tie up with multiple third party administrators (TPAs) and offer the same treatment at varying rates, the state has said they have to charge the lowest package rates. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO, State Health Assurance Society, said, “We are urging hospitals to follow this rate as people are facing extraordinary hardship due to the outbreak and the economic conditions.” Reacting to the diktat, private hospitals in the city have called the rates “impractical”. “How can a hospital in the city and the suburbs provide treatment at the same cost?” asked a hospital head. Dr V Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said they were already treating patients from the poor and weaker category. “In fact, we have a Covid-19 positive patient on ventilator whom we are treating for free right now,” said the head while maintaining the hospital’s rates have not changed post the pandemic. Dr P M Bhujang of H N Reliance Hospital said they were studying the notification and have sought some clarity. Another hospital said they will be discussing the matter with state authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-bypass-to-cancer-op-state-caps-hospital-charges-for-uninsured/articleshow/75499757.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Special trains to bring back migrant workers||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh government will bring home the migrant workers stranded outside the state via train. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the announcement on Friday, while thanking the Prime Minister and Union home minister for allowing state to bring home migrant workers with the help of railways. Chouhan said, he has already talked to the railway minister in this regard and directed additional chief secretary ICP Kesri to furnish detailed information to the ministry of railways on the number of migrant workers that have to be brought back to state, where they would board and alight and also make arrangements for their food and medical screening as soon as they reach their hometowns. Kesri, who is in-charge of the control room set up to bring back migrant workers stranded outside the state, said over 40,000 workers have already reached the state via buses. Over a lakh are still stranded in different parts of the country. Efforts are on to bring them back with the help of railways. Among them, 50,000 are in Maharashtra 30,000 in Gujarat, 8000 in Tamil Nadu, 5000 in Karnataka, 10000 in Andhra Pradesh and 3000 in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/special-trains-to-bring-back-migrant-workers/articleshow/75497260.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||From bypass to cancer operations, Maharashtra caps hospital charges for uninsured||MUMBAI:In a first, the state government has invoked five Acts, including the Epidemic Diseases and Disaster Management Act, to cap treatment rates for the uninsured at private hospitals. The decision to fix hospital package costs for 173 common procedures has been prompted by numerous profiteering complaints against hospitals from both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients. The public health department issued a notification on Thursday to regulate rates for angiography, bypass, knee and hip replacement, cataract, hernia, normal and Caesarean deliveries, and even cancer surgeries till the pandemic ends. The order said hospitals cannot charge a mark-up fee of more than 10% on the net procurement cost of consumables such as personal protective equipment or for other items. City hospitals call reduced treatment rates ‘impractical’The state notification says items such as implants, lenses, catheter balloons, orthopaedic prosthesis, stents, staplers and pacemakers cannot have a markup of more than 10%. The rates will be in force till the pandemic ends, the state said. Following the notification, even the city’s swankiest hospital, for instance, cannot charge an uninsured person more than Rs 12,000 for an angiography, Rs 75,000 for a normal delivery or Rs 86,250 for a C-section. Top city hospitals charge Rs 35,000 to a lakh for an angiography. Sources said the intention was also to rein in some five star private hospitals (a majority of which are trust-run) and are not under the General Insurance Public Sector Association (GIPSA)—a group made up of four public sector insurance companies—or any of the state insurance schemes, and have a free hand at charging patients. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said people have paid up to a lakh for a single day’s treatment in a Mumbai private hospital. “While those with an insurance cover are anyway secure and pay set charges, it’s the uninsured who are being charged exorbitantly,” said the minister. A state source said hospital bills would be monitored and any violation could attract action under the Epidemic Act that has provisions for six-month imprisonment or fine, or both. The notification has reiterated that charitable hospitals should reserve 10% of their beds for the poor and 10% at concessional rates in accordance with the Bombay Public Trusts Act. The notification has also brought in regulations for hospitals under GIPSA’s Preferred Provider Network (PPN). It said if an uninsured patient were to take treatment there, they cannot be charged more than the rate for the lowest bed category, irrespective of the class the patient is admitted in. This clause will also help an insured person who has exhausted his insurance cover, as once his limit has been exceeded, he has to be extended the lowest bed charges. Over 90% of hospitals in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune are a part of GIPSA’s PPN, the state said. For hospitals beyond Mumbai and Pune, where most tie up with multiple third party administrators (TPAs) and offer the same treatment at varying rates, the state has said they have to charge the lowest package rates. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO, State Health Assurance Society, said, “We are urging hospitals to follow this rate as people are facing extraordinary hardship due to the outbreak and the economic conditions.” Reacting to the diktat, private hospitals in the city have called the rates “impractical”. “How can a hospital in the city and the suburbs provide treatment at the same cost?” asked a hospital head. Dr V Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said they were already treating patients from the poor and weaker category. “In fact, we have a Covid-19 positive patient on ventilator whom we are treating for free right now,” said the head while maintaining the hospital’s rates have not changed post the pandemic. Dr P M Bhujang of H N Reliance Hospital said they were studying the notification and have sought some clarity. Another hospital said they will be discussing the matter with state authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-bypass-to-cancer-op-state-caps-hospital-charges-for-uninsured/articleshow/75498448.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Strictly implement spitting ban, say officials||KOTA: Spitting in public places is prohibited under municipal laws across the state and there is a provision of imposing penalty, but ineffective implementation has irked health professionals. According to health professionals, spitting can spread Covid-19 as the saliva of an infected person can carry the virus for more than 24 hours. They have demanded a total ban on all the products of tobacco, areca nut and paan masalas during the pandemic. Union health ministry in its letter stated that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has appealed to the public not to consume and spit tobacco products in public. Chewing tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut (supari) increases production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. “There is a widespread culture of chewing paan with tobacco, which in the last few years has been replaced by paan masala mixed with tobacco and other products. Thus, spitting has become a common sight and it is very harmful for human health as it invites infection that stays effective for 24 -72 hours,” said Dr Amit Goyal, oncologist, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Jodhpur and Voice of Tobacco Victims (VOTV) state patron.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/strictly-implement-spitting-ban-say-officials/articleshow/75497951.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad doctor duped of Rs 56,000 while trying to buy 1,000 N-95 masks||HYDERABAD: A doctor working in a hospital at Banjara Hills was duped by online fraudsters when he placed an order for the purchase of N-95 masks. A few days ago, the doctor had posted his requirement for 1,000 masks on an online commerce portal. A person contacted him over phone and assured him that they would supply the masks and asked the doctor to pay half the amount upfront. “The telephone caller gave a bank account number and the doctor transferred Rs 56,000 cash to the bank account on Thursday. Subsequently, the accused became inaccessible,” city cybercrime police said. Realising that he got duped, he contacted Hyderabad police who registered a case on the charges of impersonation and cheating, apart from IT Act and started a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctor-duped-of-rs-56k-while-trying-to-buy-1k-n-95-masks/articleshow/75497924.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||New Telangana high court judge to take oath on Saturday||HYDERABAD: Ten days after the Supreme Court recommended the names of four advocates to be elevated as judges, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday okayed their appointments. While Telangana got one judge, neighbouring Andhra Pradesh will have three new judges. Hyderabad advocate B Vijaysen Reddy will be sworn in as judge of the Telangana high court on Saturday. All judges will formally assemble and Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan will administer the oath of office. However, lawyers and visitors will not be allowed as the entry into the high court is restricted due to the lockdown. With Vijaysen’s appointment, the strength of judges of the high court will reach 14. The Centre also notified the appointment of three advocates as judges of AP high court. B Krishna Mohan, K Suresh Reddy and K Lalitha Kumari will be sworn in as AP judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-t-hc-judge-to-take-oath-today/articleshow/75497929.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||23-year-old youth arrested for minor’s rape, murder in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR: Bhiwadi police has arrested a 23-year-old youth for raping and murdering a 14-year-old girl in Neemrana police station area. The incident took place on April 29. The girl’s father had registered a complaint with the local police station alleging that the accused had abducted his daughter. “After we received the complaint, we started looking for the girl. We also alerted our sources. Her body was found inside a well in a forest. The well was around 200ft deep and we had to use a crane to take the body out,” said an official. According to officials, the accused had abducted the minor girl. After sexually assaulting her, he killed her. He, then, dumped her body in the well. “After the alleged abduction, we started interrogating the locals and found that the girl was apparently friends with the accused. We started looking at CCTV footages in nearby areas. We received information from our sources following which we arrested the accused. We will question him further to find the reason behind the brutal murder,” the official said. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) as well as under POCSO Act has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/23-yr-old-youth-arrested-for-minors-rape-murder/articleshow/75497944.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘ Maharashtra’s anicut to hit water supply to PWD plant’||KERI: The 10MLD water treatment plant planned on the Amthane-Dumashem plateau in Mencurem in a bid to alleviate the water crises in Bicholim has hit a hurdle even before its construction. The Maharashtra government is in the process of building an anicut to divert water from the Colvale river, which will result in a shortage in supply of raw water to the proposed plant. The Maharashtra government has undertaken the construction of the anicut along with jack wells and pipelines to carry water from the Colvale river to Vengurla in Maneri-Sasoli villages of Dodamarg in Maharashtra, near the Goa border, without obtaining permission from the riparian state of Goa, sources in the water resources department said. When Laxmikant Parsekar was the chief minister of Goa, the issue of the proposed anicut was brought to his notice. Though he reportedly spoke to Devendra Fadanvis, who was then the chief minister of Maharashtra, on the issue, the work of laying pipelines and jack wells continued unabated. In order to solve the repeated drinking water crisis of Bicholim town and vicinity, PWD Minister Deepak Pauskar recently announced that the department would take up work, on priority-basis, on the 10 MLD water treatment plant at Mencurem. Speaking to reporters on an earlier visit, Deepak Pauskar had said, “PWD has obtained NOC from Hari Sukhaji Parab and 16 others in survey no. 21/2, to construct the WTP, at a cost of Rs 46 crore rupees, to solve the drinking water crisis.” Chief engineer of water resources department Shrikant Patil said, “We object to Maharashtra’s construction of the anicut, being built at Maneri-Sasoli, as it will affect water supply to the plant”. “Presently, on account of the lockdown, the work of laying pipelines has been halted by the Maharashtra government. However, the work was going on in full swing before the lockdown,” said Mase Gawas, a resident of Ibrampur, Pernem. “If the anicut is completed, there will be a serious water crisis when the pumping of raw water begins at Hedus- Sasoli,”said Gawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mahas-anicut-to-hit-water-supply-to-pwd-plant/articleshow/75498457.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Soldier, kin drown in Hemavathi backwaters||TNN Madikeri: Two people, including a soldier, drowned in Hemavathi backwaters at Besuru Niluvagilu village near Kodlipet, Kodagu district on Friday. The deceased have been identified as 31-year-old Lokesh, son of Nanjappa of Harohalli village, Arakalgod taluk, Hassan district and his kin 27-year-old Latesh, son of Shanthraju from Besuru Niluvagilu village near Kodlipet. Lokesh was serving in army’s AMC regiment for the last 11 years. The duo had gone for a swim on Friday when the incident occurred , police said. Engaged a week ago, Lokesh was on a visit to Latesh’s village. A case was registered at Shanivarasanthe Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/soldier-kin-drown-in-hemavathi-backwaters/articleshow/75496457.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Congress starts helpline in Bundi district||KOTA: Bundi district Congress Committee has launched a helpline and control room at its office on Friday to facilitate the inbound and outbound migrant labourers. “All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary, Dhiraj Gurjar, launched the helpline responding to a call given by AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi,” said Charmesh Sharma, vice-president of district Congress Committee. Over 50 migrant labourers from various states registered with the control room within a few hours on Friday and the process to send them to their hometowns has begun, he said, adding that the migrants labourers of Rajasthan stuck in other states of the country have also started registering with the control room for return to their respective homes in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-starts-helpline-in-bundi-dist/articleshow/75497947.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||Domestic production of med devices ramped up||NEW DELHI: Amid rising demand for medical equipment to deal with increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Friday said it has ramped up domestic production to ensure sufficient supplies of ventilators, oxygen cylinders, personal protection equipment (PPEs), masks and RT-PCR testing kits. The government said the projected demand for ventilators in hospitals to combat the Covid-19 outbreak is 75,000. To meet this, it has placed orders for 60,884 ventilators, of which 59,884 will be supplied by domestic manufacturers — accounting for over 98% of the total order placed so far. Similarly, production of PPEs has been ramped up from around 3,300 per day in March to 1.86 lakh per day now. Against a projected demand of 2.2 crore PPEs, required by healthcare workers over the next three months, 1.42 crore units will be manufactured domestically.  P D Vaghela, department of pharmaceuticals secretary, who also heads an Empowered Group formed to ensure medical supplies during the Covid crisis said that there were many challenges to reach up to this level. “But we took the challenge as an opportunity to create supply chains and ramp up domestic manufacturing capacity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/domestic-production-of-med-devices-ramped-up/articleshow/75499176.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers facing harassment by locals||JAIPUR: Migrant labourers who returned from the bordering districts of Gujarat are facing harassment by locals. Cases of migrants being denied to spend their 14-day quarantine in their homes by locals are making it difficult for the administration to accomodate them in government facilities. Bassi town in Chittorgrah has made a rule to not allow any migrant until they serve a 14-day period in a government school located in an isolated place. Arrangements for their food, water and other facilities have been made by erstwhile rulers of Bassi. “We are expecting an avalanche of migrants who could be potential carriers in our 21 villages. This is why we have to be strict till they are free of the virus,” said Col (retired) Randhir Singh, a member of the erstwhile royal family. Government rules say a migrant with no symptoms can be home quarantined for 14 days instead of a government facility. Dungarpur has received a few thousand migrants from Gujarat in the last seven days. Many of them have scaled the distance by foot, while others have come in state transport buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-facing-harassment-by-locals/articleshow/75497942.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Another cop tests Covid-19 positive||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old constable of Rachakonda police commissionerate tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The constable, who has been unwell since April 24, was admitted in King Koti Hospital two days ago. Nine of his colleagues and nine family members were placed under quarantine. “The constable has been on lockdown-related duties, including vehicle checking and patrolling. On April 24, he complained of fever while on duty. The next day, he went for a check-up at King Koti Hospital due to severe headache. He was sent for home quarantine. On April 29, his symptoms were very evident. He was admitted in the King Koti Hospital and samples were sent for examination,” said a police official. On May 1, the results came and the constable had tested positive. “He has been shifted from King Koti Hospital to Gandhi Hospital. The police station where he has been working has been sanitised,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-cop-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75497936.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Corona vigilantes’ assault truck driver in Alwar district||ALWAR: A number of incidents are coming to light where volunteers designated by the district administrations to enforce the lockdown are found misusing their positions and misbehaving with the public. In a recent incident in Alwar’s Bansur, a group of such volunteers allegedly beat up a truck driver and also humiliated him. The team was constituted by SDM Rakesh Meena which comprised locals as well as few NCC cadets who were meant to be stationed at the checkpost. The victim, Balbir Singh, whose hand was fractured because of the assault said, “They stopped my vehicle and beat me up for no reason. They also humiliated me by forcing me to kneel down as a form of punishment. I even approached the SDM but no action was taken against anyone.” According to sources, a similar incident happened less than a week ago when a youth was allegedly beaten up by similar coronavirus ‘vigilantes’. Cops and district administration have been regularly taking the help of volunteers in the form of force multipliers to ensure that people follow the lockdown guidelines set by the Centre and the state government. M L Lather, DG, Law and Order said, “Volunteers are designated to help the police and local administration to maintain the lockdown and there are certain conditions which need to be kept in mind. Although, I am not aware about the incident in Bansur, any such team of volunteers needs to also have a government official as its part, which could be a patwari etc. Also, use of force is absolutely illegal and no one can take law into their hands.” Meanwhile, the district magistrate of Alwar, Indrajeet Singh claimed that they are looking into the matter and said, “We will not tolerate any kind of hooliganism and action will be taken against the accused if found at fault. For the time being, the volunteers’ team will be removed from the checkpost and police personnel will be deployed there.” Watch Rajasthan: ‘Corona vigilantes’ assault truck driver in Alwar district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-vigilantes-assault-truck-driver-in-alwar-dist/articleshow/75497943.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Viral clips show no social distancing at Ghazipur mandi||NEW DELHI: While Delhi government managed to decongest the Azadpur auction yard with some new steps to reduce the number of people and vehicles, Ghazipur wholesale fruit and vegetable market saw a large number of vendors crowding the place on Friday, throwing social distancing in view of the Covid epidemic for a toss. A huge crowd of vegetable vendors and other customers gathered at the entrance of the wholesale market even as the officials at the Mandi tried to enforce social distancing. The videos of the huge crowd of people with bags and plastic crates gathering at the gate and later police officials asking them to stand in a queue went viral on social media. Ghazipur Agricultural Produce Marking Committee secretary Shyam Lal, however, said the crowd gathered due to change in the timings of the Mandi that came in effect from Thursday, leading to confusion among the buyers. People stand in a queue ignoring social distancing at the entrance of Ghazipur vegetable market“We had changed the timing of the mandi just a day earlier to open for the buyers from 4am to 6am. Since they were not aware of the change, the crowd gathered outside. We have again reverted to the old timings to ensure that they don’t feel any inconvenience,” Shyam Lal said. He added that the mandi committee had taken several measures to enforce social distancing in view of coronavirus epidemic. “We have also introduced thermal scanning for anyone entering the mandi and deployed public announcement systems to make people aware of the necessity to maintain social distancing,” Shyam Lal added. Meanwhile, two health teams at Azadpur mandi carried out medical tests of a large number of traders and staff on Friday. The arrival of vegetables and fruits was slightly less than 6,000 tons but the officials said that it was enough to cater to the need of Delhiites and no surge in pricing was noticed owing to any scarcity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/viral-clips-show-no-social-distancing-at-ghazipur-mandi/articleshow/75498462.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker electrocuted in coffee estate||Madikeri: A wild elephant was electrocuted in a private coffee estate near Pollibetta in Kodagu district on Thursday evening. The tusker was treading across the estate owned by Kuppanda Aruna when it received electric shock around 7.30pm. Forest officials from Thithimathi visited the spot. An autopsy was conducted by veterinary doctors. Gaur succumbs to injuries following fight Madikeri: A Gaur which was injured in a fight with another one succumbed to injuries on Thursday. The incident took place at K Badaga village in Kodagu. Two Gaurs were involved in a fight in the forest lining near K Badaga village and one was seriously injured. A few villagers who spotted the injured Gaur stuck in a ditch at a private estate in the village alerted the forest department. Officials from Virajpet lifted the Gaur from the ditch using a crane and provided first aid. The Gaur was later shifted to Mysuru Zoo for treatment. However, the animal succumbed to its injuries later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-electrocuted-in-coffee-estate/articleshow/75496511.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Navy to thank Covid fighters in state on Sunday||Panaji: In line with the call given by the Union ministry of defence, Indian Navy helicopters will conduct a flypast over Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and ESI Hospital, Margao, on Sunday morning. Naval helicopters will shower flower petals on the two hospitals, which serve as dedicated medical facilities to tackle Covid-19 in Goa. The flypast will be conducted at around 10am, with the choppers taking off from the naval airbase INS Hansa. The initiative of the armed forces is a gesture to thank doctors, nurses and healthcare workers. Nationally, the Indian Air Force will conduct a flypast from Srinagar to Trivandrum and another starting from Dibrugarh in Assam to Kutch in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-to-thank-covid-fighters-in-state-on-sunday/articleshow/75498463.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Happy Friday: No positive cases in Anand after spike||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand recorded its fifth Covid-19 related death on Friday after a 54-year-old resident of Aling crossroads area in Khambhat town succumbed to the virus at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad.According to health officials, the patient had other co-morbid conditions including hypertension and diabetes. However, the district, which has been declared as red zone, got a respite after no positive cases were reported within 24 hours ending on Friday evening.Meanwhile, a 53-year-old woman from Aling crossroads area got discharged from the Karamsad hospital on the same day, taking the total number of recoveries to 32 in the district.On Friday, principal secretary (health), Jayanti Ravi, also visited Anand along with a team of experts from B J Medical College. She also conducted a review meeting to assess the situation in Khambhat, the coastal town, where so far 62 positive cases have been recorded.She also visited hotspot areas of Khambhat along with a team while directed the district health officials to ensure that citizens above 50 years are provided constant telephonic guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/happy-friday-no-positive-cases-in-anand-after-spike/articleshow/75497967.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||SRI method takes a back seat in paddy cultivation||Edited_340 wordsMargao: The mechanisation of paddy cultivation in Goa has led to a steep decline in the number of farmers practicing the SRI method of paddy farming over the last few years. The system of rice intensification (SRI) in paddy production was first introduced in Goa in 2010, which aimed at increasing the yield of rice. The principle behind this technique includes using less quantity of water and individual transplanting of very young seedlings in a square pattern.50ha of agricultural land was brought under SRI method of cultivation in the pilot project undertaken by the agriculture department at Netravali in 2010. NABARD had provided financial assistance for the project for which Mineral Foundation, an NGO, had been roped in to provide technical support. As the method promised nearly twice the yield of that obtained from the traditional method of paddy cultivation, a large number of farmers subsequently shifted over to this technique and reaped a rich harvest. However, as mechanisation took over the processes of paddy cultivation in the state over the last few years, the labour-intensive SRI method took a backseat.Acknowledging the fact, director of agriculture, Neville Alfonso said, “Though not many farmers are practicing SRI method today, there are some farmers in places like Sanguem, Quepem, Canacona and Sattari, where paddy is cultivated by SRI method,” Sources in the agriculture department said that the SRI method is followed by farmers cultivating paddy in hilly or undulated terrains where mechanised transplantation isn’t feasible. “The farmers in Goa can afford mechanisation because of the handsome subsidies offered by the government. But on the other hand, it also snatches away the livelihood opportunities for poor farmhands in the villages,” a senior agriculture officer said. Sources in the agriculture department also said that modern mechanised transplanters can also be adjusted to transplant paddy by SRI method. Agro researcher Dr Sachin Tendulkar stressed on the need for promotion of SRI as it ensures 50% savings of seeds for farmers over the traditional methods and also requires less quantity of water for irrigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sri-method-takes-a-back-seat-in-paddy-cultivation/articleshow/75498464.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Two boys drown in Hunsur lake||MYSURU: Two children drowned were while swimming in a lake at Manuganahalli village of Hunsur taluk on Friday. The boys — Rahul, 12, and Nuthan, 14 — are said to have drowned in the lake, near which they grazed their cattle for sometime. The duo, who left their houses in the morning to graze cattle, met a watery grave as the lake had huge pits due to illegal sand mining, police said. As the children did not return home, their parents and relatives went in search of them, and found their clothes near the lake. They immediately informed the villagers and police, after which expert swimmers in the village fished out the bodies. Hunsur police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-boys-drown-in-hunsur-lake/articleshow/75496543.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 13 scale 21-ft wall to escape from Devgadh Baria jail||VADODARA: They broke three locks and scaled a 21-feet high wall to escape and the guards got no wind of this. The Devgadh Baria sub-jail may be no Alcatraz, but the daring escape by the inmates here in the early hours on Friday comes as a major surprise. Thirteen inmates accused of serious offences like murder, rape and robbery amongst other offences were found missing from two rooms in the prison. Both the rooms were located in the same barrack in the jail. The accused allegedly broke open the locks of two different cells and then even the barrack where they were lodged. As many as six inmates kept in room number three and all seven inmates in the barrack number four escaped after scaling the wall. Three inmates in room number three did not run away and were being questioned by the police. In-charge jailor P B Rana said that a guard found the inmates missing when he was on routine round at 4am to check on the inmates. Rana said on being informed he rushed to the jail and later registered an offence regarding the incident. Policemen guarding the jail had prepared a report regarding the incident that they handed over to Rana. Rana said that the police has roped in sniffer dogs to trace the accused and the route they followed to run away. He said that it was surprising that the inmates scaled such a high wall and could force open the locks. The manner in which the locks were opened clearly indicates that some instrument may have been used to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13-scale-21-ft-wall-to-escape-from-devgadh-baria-jail/articleshow/75497984.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sugarcane crop dries up, farmers face loss of Rs 60 lakh||PONDA: The lockdown has dealt a blow to sugarcane cultivators in the state, with their unharvested crop drying up in the fields due to a shortage of farm labour . Harshad Prabhudesai, vice-president of the Goa Sugarcane Farmers’ Association has estimated that around 2,000 tonne of sugarcane has dried up since the lockdown began.In his village of Wadem-Sanguem alone, at least 1,200 tonne of the crop has been lost. Sanguem taluka is the highest sugarcane producer in the state, and has contributed over 12,393 tonne canes to the Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana this season, until February 28. Cooperation Minister Govind Gaude has however claimed the state has left 1,600 tonne canes unharvested. He added that the government was considering paying compensation to the farmners who lost their crop. The factory pays Rs 1,200 per tonne and the agriculture department pays a support price of Rs 1,800, totaling a price of Rs 3,000 per tonne for the canes supplied by the farmers to the factory. “Considering the urgent need for the payments to the farmers, we have decided to pay them at least 80 percent. The payments would be done most probably by next week ”, Gaude said. The farmers engage several teams of labourers from neighbouring states to harvest the canes, however as the harvesting started late this year, most of the labourers had left by the first week of March. “Once the temperature rises, labourers cannot work in farms as the dried leaves of the canes could injure them. But the labourers who had stayed back in Goa and were harvesting the crop also had to stop due to the lockdown”, Prabhudesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugarcane-crop-dries-up-farmers-face-loss-of-rs-60l/articleshow/75498475.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
May 2, 2020||Goa||In ‘green zone’ Goa, liquor shops likely to open on Monday||PANAJI: Goa, categorised as a green zone by the Centre, is likely to see retail liquor shops open from Monday. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI on Friday that the state would strictly follow guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. As per these guidelines, liquor shops are allowed to open, with restrictions. Earlier, South Goa was categorized as a green zone as per the Union government’s zoning list for Covid-19, while North Goa was a red zone. But as per the Centre’s classification on Friday, the whole of Goa is now a green zone, with the last Covid-19 case in the state detected on April 3. All seven cases have been cured. “With the efforts of our corona warriors and support of the people of Goa, our state has now been classified as a green zone by the government of India. The war against Covid-19 is far from over,” he said. Since there are several positive cases in the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka, Goa police are maintaining strict vigil at eight checkpoints. Sawant had said on Monday that people may have to wear masks and maintain social distancing for the next two years. “We must continue our fight against this virus by adopting a modified lifestyle which gives priority to safe health norms such as sanitisation, wearing of face masks, social distancing and staying at home during the lockdown period,” he said.  Earlier, the state government recommended to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown beyond May 3. Sawant had cited the increasing number of cases in Maharashtra and Karnataka to push for keeping the borders shut even after May 3. He had recommended that air and rail transport to the state stay suspended. Sawant had also suggested that economic activities could resume within the state. On Monday, TOI was the first to report that the Goa government was going to recommend that the lockdown should continue beyond May 3 and that Goa’s borders remain sealed. Earlier, during his April 11 meeting with Modi, Sawant suggested that the lockdown continue in the state till April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-green-zone-goa-liquor-shops-likely-to-open-on-monday/articleshow/75498481.cms||Murari Shetye
May 2, 2020||India||Punjab blames Maharashtra for Covid positive pilgrims, latter says it’s ‘not our fault’||CHANDIGARH/MUMBAI/AURANGABAD: The complexities involved in evacuating thousands of migrants across state borders are beginning to sink in. Maharashtra on Friday sealed areas around Nanded’s Takht Hazoor Sahib after Punjab saw a huge spike in cases with 215 pilgrims, who had visited the shrine, testing positive on their return. The gurdwaras in the complex remain open. A Maharashtra official said, “We are examining the residents around the gurdwara. We expect the results will available on Saturday,” he said. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts wereThe Punjab government, however, is unhappy that pilgrims who returned were not tested in Maharashtra and were just screened before they set out on their journey. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday shot off a letter to Maharashtra expressing displeasure on this count. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: What all you can do from today, and what you can'tNEW DELHI: The second extension of coronavirus-induced lockdown began across the country from Monday. The two-week extension was announced by the government on Friday. Lockdown 3.0 began as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country breached the 40,000-mark. Here is a look at the various activitiesRead our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesSidhu, in the letter, lodged a protest that the Maharashtra health authority had not conducted tests of Punjab residents who had been stuck there for about 40 days. “Had they informed us about this, we would have taken our medical team there to conduct their tests before bringing them back,” said Sidhu. The Punjab government is testing every person, irrespective of the state they belong to, he further said. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageMaharashtra has countered the charge saying, “Each and every pilgrim was medically examined before boarding, all of them were asymptomatic. However, when they reached Punjab, many tested positive. It appears that they caught the infection en route to Punjab, since their vehicles passed though some of the hot spots in Madhya Pradesh, particularly Indore and Khargone,” the official said. About 4,000 Punjab pilgrims were stranded in Nanded due to the lockdown and were accommodated in Sachkhand Saheb and Langar Saheb Gurdwaras. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The Maharashtra official said nearly 300 pilgrims had also clandestinely left for Punjab in private buses from Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-blames-maha-for-ve-pilgrims-latter-says-its-not-our-fault/articleshow/75499202.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Goa classified as green zone for Covid-19||PANAJI: Goa has been classified as green zone for Covid-19 by the Centre, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Goa had seven positive cases of coronavirus and all the patients have recovered. The last case of Covid-19 was detected in state on April 3. “With the efforts of our corona warriors and support of the people of Goa, our state has now been classified as a green zone by the government of India. The war against Covid-19 is far from over,” he said. “We must continue our fight against this virus by adopting a modified lifestyle which gives priority to safe health norms such as sanitisation, wearing of face masks, social distancing and staying at home during the lockdown period,” he said. The chief minister said the state will strictly follow the Union home ministry’s guidelines for green zones which were issued on Friday. On April 14, south Goa was placed in the green zone as per the Union government’s zoning list for Covid-19, while north Goa was placed in the red zone. As there are Covid-19 positive cases in neighbouring state, Goa police are keeping strict vigil at the eight checkposts across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-classified-as-green-zone-for-covid-19/articleshow/75499197.cms||Murari Shetye
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters in Bandipur asked to stay vigilant against poaching activity||MYSURU: Officials at the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR), anxious to prevent forest fires that are worryingly common during the summer months, have been given another reason to worry: Inspector general of the National Tiger Conservation Authority NS Murali has informed the foresters at BTR about a band of poachers lurking on the fringes of the woods. Murali has reportedly relayed to the foresters at Bandipur that the poachers are armed with country-made firearms. Forest department officials at Bandipur said that they had arrested several poachers in the past few weeks, and added that Chamarajanagar police had been intimated to act against those in possession of illegal arms. In his letter that BTR officials received on Tuesday, Murali has asked the foresters to remain on guard against poaching activity, which he suspected was likely to spike during the lockdown. “In view of such a possibility, it is requested that all field formations, and members of the anti-poaching camp network are on high alert, and appropriate steps taken to apprehend the poachers,” the letter added. Murali confirmed to TOI that the National Tiger Conservation Authority had learnt about poachers being active in the area through their intelligence network. “Owing to the lockdown, meat is in short supply and the poachers are trying to exploit this to further their ends. This advisory has been issued so as to prevent loss of wildlife,” he said. On the other hand, foresters have already nabbed many poachers who were caught red-handed trying to smuggle meat out of the woods. BTR field director T Balachandra, confirming that they had received Murali’s letter, said that the foresters at the reserve had foiled the plans of six gangs of hunters. “I will write to Chamarajanagar police to file a case against these poachers on the fringes under sections of the Arms Act,” Balachandra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-in-bandipur-asked-to-stay-vigilant-against-poaching-activity/articleshow/75496592.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt allows private sector to open mandis||BHOPAL: MP government has amended Mandi Act to allow private sector to form mandis and declare warehouses, godowns, cold storages and silos as mandis. Making the announcement in a video-conferencing with the farmers on Friday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the seven amendments have been made to make the act farmer-friendly. Besides, provision is also being made for direct purchase from farmers of their produce at the village itself by food processors, exporters, wholesale merchants and the last consumer in the supply chain. Mandi committees will not have any interference in the working of private mandis. Regulatory powers of managing director, mandi board, will be taken away and vested in the post of director, marketing. The traders will be able to use one licence for trading in the entire state and a provision of training has also been made. Two more amendments, that are already in force, provide for payment of mandi tax only once- the first time the product of the farmer is procured. In the subsequent deals across the state, no tax will be charged. Besides, fruits and vegetables will not be under the ambit of Mandi Act now. Chief minister said that the new provisions have been incorporated in the Mandi Act to ensure maximum prices of produce to farmers. After the amendments in Mandi Act, farmers will be able to sell their products to traders from their doorstep itself. There will be no compulsion to go to Mandi for the sale of their product. They will, however, have the choice to sell their produce in the mandi on the minimum support price (MSP) decided by the government. Greater competition to buy their products would ensure more remunerative prices for the farmers, he said. He said that a trader after acquiring a licence from the state government would be able to purchase the produce of the farmer at his farms or at their home. There will be one licence for the whole state. In addition to it, e-trading system has also been introduced. Under the system, farmers will know prices of specific farm products in mandis across the country. This would allow the farmers to strike a deal in any of the mandis across the country, which offers them the best prices. He said that the “Sauda Patrak” system introduced in the state has given a good result. Traders are purchasing farm products using “Sauda Patrak” from the homes of farmers and in mandis, too, 80 % deal have been done by this system only. This has also ensured better prices to farmers of their products and encouraged the state government to incorporate changes in the Mandi Act to make it more farmer-friendly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-allows-private-sector-to-open-mandis/articleshow/75497370.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 2, 2020||Goa||Three cruiseliners to bring home 1,200 Goan seafarers this month||PANAJI: Three more cruiseliners carrying over 3,500 Indians, including around 1200 Goans, are scheduled to disembark their crew at Mumbai and Goa ports in the coming weeks. Two of these cruiseliners — the Royal Carribean’s Ovation of the Seas and Carnivals’ Europa 2 — looking at disembarking their Goan crew at MPT, have already contacted the chairman, director of NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza told TOI. The ship handlers of these two cruiseliners will also disembark crew at Kochi and Mumbai ports. Due to the peculiar SOP of the government of India, the only option at this point is for them to take the sea route and sign off their crew in India. “The Royal Caribbean Cruises have been coming to Goa port over the years for tourism and would usually sign off their crew in another part of the world and arrange for paid flights to India. Now they’re on a different mission,” D’Souza said. Norwegian cruiseliner Seven Seas Voyager is expected to arrive at Mumbai port on May 10. “They want to disembark all the 160 Indian crew members at Mumbai. It has left Abu Dhabi and is already on the way but it is slow steaming as it wants to complete the 14 day-quarantine period at sea,” D’Souza said. This cruiseliner wants to follow the path that Marella Discovery took and send the Goan crew back home by road. The Ovation of the Seas coming in from South East Asia is expected to arrive in India on May 17 when it will disembark almost 1,000 crew members at Kochi port, 400 at MPT and 500 at Mumbai. Likewise, Europa 2 is expected in India by the end of May when it will disembark 500 crew members in Mumbai, 800 in Goa and almost 200 in Kochi. A large chunk of the 10,000-odd persons’ data the commission has received comprises seafarers who cannot sign off on Indian shores; the central government’s SOP for sign off doesn’t apply to them. . As their companies are ready to arrange charters to ferry them back home, they await the opening of airports. Commissioner for NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar told TOI that the commission continues to compile data of Indians stranded abroad and will share this data with the central government once it indicates the way forward. “Once the central government releases an advisory and mechanism for air travel, all states will have to work accordingly. The decision ultimately lies with the central government,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-cruiseliners-to-bring-home-1200-goan-seafarers-this-month/articleshow/75498489.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||BJP MLAs seek normal OPD services in pvt hospital||Bhopal: The BJP MLAs have agreed to the government's decision to extend lockdown for further two weeks and demanded that private nursing homes and doctors should provide regular service to the patients suffering from ailments other than corona infection. A meeting of public representatives called by state health minister Narottam Mishra on Friday discussed lockdown extension and problems being faced by the public due to non-availability of essential goods and health care. The meeting was attended by BJP MLAs Rameshwar Sharma, Vishwas Sarang, Vishnu Khatri, Krishna Gaur and Congress MLAs Arif Aqueel, PC Sharma and Arif Masood. BJP MLAs demanded that patients suffering from diseases other than corona were facing problems as private nursing homes and hospital were not providing services and treatment. The government assured that private hospitals have been instructed to help all patients as hospital for Covid-19 treatment have already been identified. "Private hospitals should be asked to treat patients suffering from various ailments. There was problem as in many areas, the hospitals have denied treatment to patients suffering from heart disease, liver or other ailments. The government should instruct the private hospitals to provide services to all," said Krishna Gaur. "We have agreed to the government decision to extend lockdown but, we have also urged the government to ensure proper supply of essential goods and ration to the needy," said Rameshwar Sharma. Former minister Vishwas Sarang said that public awareness is necessary to clear the confusion about corona while MLA Vishnu Khatri said that there should be partial relaxation in small industries and construction works in the areas of green and orange zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-mlas-seek-normal-opd-services-in-pvt-hospital/articleshow/75497383.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Activist not keeping safe distance held||Vadodara: A social worker, Prabhu Solanki, was arrested on Friday morning for not maintaining social distance at Kalyannagar Society on Ajwa Road while distributing food kits. Police said that during patrolling on Ajwa Road they noticed a group of people gathered outside Kalyannagar Society and Solanki was distributing food kits to them. Cops said that when he was asked why he had gathered people and why no social distancing was maintained, he did not give any satisfactory answer. Solanki was then arrested and taken to Bapod police station where an offence of violation of public notification was registered against him. “It is fine to distribute food kits. But it is necessary to maintain a social distance. Here, he had gathered people and all of them were crowding around him which puts everybody in risk of infection and so we booked him,” officials said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/activist-not-keeping-safe-distance-held/articleshow/75498036.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Goa||Free quarantine for Goans returning to state, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday there are approximately 3.5 lakh migrant workers in Goa and data is being collected to make necessary arrangement for those who want to return to their respective states. He said the government will provide free quarantine facility for Goans returning from other states. “We are collecting the data of those who want to go back. We will submit the data to Centre to make necessary arrangement for special trains for those people,” Sawant told TOI. He said those who have vehicles and want to return to their native state will be allowed to do so. Even buses would be made available to migrants who want to travel to Maharashtra and Karnataka, but on the request of the respective state. He said there are around 60,000 migrants staying in government camps and around 3 lakh in hotels. Sawant said the Centre’s decision to start special trains will benefit migrants, students and tourists who want to go back to their respective states. The chief minister said if a situation arises wherein the migrants are from Himachal Pradesh and a Delhi-bound train heading from Kerala via Goa is available, then a request would be made to the Centre to accommodate these workers so that they can go back their villages. A senior government officer said that the bus fare has to be borne by the state that wants to take back their people. Sawant also said the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue lockdown till May 17 was taken in the interest of the people. He said Goa will follow Centre’s guidelines on Covid-19 for districts in green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/free-quarantine-for-returning-goans-sawant/articleshow/75498504.cms||Murari Shetye
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19: 32 patients test negative, discharged in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Health department heaved a sigh of relief on Friday when 32 Covid-19 patients were discharged from three quarantine centres in Moradabad after they tested negative in two consecutive reports. One 55-year-old patient passed away on Friday. All these 32 patients had tested positive earlier and lodged at the quarantine centres, where their condition was constantly monitored by doctors and medical staff. District magistrate, Moradabad, RK Singh said now the tally of active patients in the district has fallen from 93 to 60. However, by evening, three fresh positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 63. The DM said they hsd got 106 sample reports in the evening and among them, 101 had tested negative while three were positive. Among three fresh cases, one is a 47-year-old woman, whose husband succumbed to Covid-19 in the morning. The other two positive patients are also women whose family members are already in quarantine having tested positive after coming in contact with Tablighi Jamaati members. Among those who were discharged on Friday in Moradabad, 12 were from Tirthankar Mahavir University, 11 from the district hospital while nine from the community health centre at Haldaur, in neighbouring Bijnor district. These nine patients were shifted to Haldaur CHC after testing positive for coronavirus in Moradabad. Chief medical officer, Dr MC Garg, said it was a big relief for them as such a large number of patients were discharged in a single day from quarantine centres. The DM said so far as many as 40 patients have been discharged in Moradabsd while five have succumbed to the virus. In neighbouring Sambhal district, two patients were discharged while one fresh positive case was reported there. Medical team in-charge in Sambhal, Dr Neeraj Sharma, said on Friday, two youths – one a resident of Sarai Tareen and the other of Deepa Sarai -- were discharged after their reports came negative. “Both youths had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaati men. On Friday, a 35-year-old man of Sarai Tareen tested positive. Now, the tally in Sambhal is 19,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/32-patients-test-negative-discharged-in-moradabad/articleshow/75497392.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Control room, checkposts set up to screen migrants||Vadodara: Students, tourists, pilgrims and migrant labourers from the district will be able to return to their hometowns after a control room has been set up at Vadodara district collectorate to facilitate their return journey in accordance with directives from Gujarat government and the Centre. Deputy collector Ram Joshi has been appointed as nodal officer for coordination. “Going by the guidelines, health screening of all stranded persons will be carried out at the urban health centres, community and public health centres across the country,” said Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. “Nine checkposts have been set up in entire district where police and health teams have been deployed. Those who could be screened at urban health centres, PHCs and CHCs will be screened at these checkposts,” she said. For queries, such stranded persons can call helpline number – 1077 – while permission will be granted through e-pass system after online applications are submitted on the portal of digital Gujarat. Between March 31 and April 30, the district administration in coordination with external affairs ministry, embassies and police department facilitated the return journey of 253 citizens from seven countries from Ahmedabad and Mumbai. These include 10 from Germany, 69 of Canada, 159 of United Kingdom, five of Austria, four of Sweden, five of Spain and one from Switzerland. Around 45 migrant labourers also left for Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh through vehicles that were arranged by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/control-room-checkposts-set-up-to-screen-migrants/articleshow/75498045.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Elderly couple killed in thunderstorm in Kheri||BAREILLY: A late night thunderstorm claimed the lives of an elderly couple and several domestic animals across Lakhimpur Kheri district. According to sources, the elderly couple was sleeping in their house when the wall of their room collapsed on them in Behdalal village in Maighalganj area. The other members of the family didn’t come to know about the incident at midnight and no one came to their rescue until morning. The couple were found when the wall's debris was removed. The incident also led to the death of three domestic cattle and a pet dog. It all happened when on Friday morning, Abrar woke up to a surprise at 5 am when he found that the room in which his parents were sleeping had collapsed and his parents were buried inside. He immediately removed the debris of the wall with the support of neighbours but his parents had died. Later the bodies were taken by Maigalganj SHO Chandrakant Singh and sent for autopsy. Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh told TOI, “Mohammed Munshin, 75, and his wife Akhtari Begum died after the wall of their house collapsed due to thunderstorm and heavy rain on Thursday night. Our team had conducted a survey and found that three goats, a buffalo calf also died in the incident. It was really an unfortunate moment for the family and we couldn’t do much for them except sanctioning the compensation. In such cases there is a provision of Rs 4 lakh for each human death, Rs 16,000 for buffalo calf and Rs 3,000 for the death of each goat.” “Rain and thunderstorm has caused damaged in nearby areas as well where few cattle have died. We will be sanctioning compensation in those cases, too. The harvest of wheat crop is almost complete and no damage to any crops has been reported so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-couple-killed-in-thunderstorm-in-kheri/articleshow/75497405.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 warrior: For 42 days, 65-year-old has slept in ambulance, says will go home ‘once coronavirus war is over’||Bareilly: This Ramzan is different for 65-year-old Babu Bharti. His wife, Bilkis, isn’t preparing hot sewai for iftaar and his three children haven’t asked for new clothes. In fact, Bharti, who drives an ambulance in UP’s Sambhal district, hasn’t seen his family in 42 days. Since March 23, the driver has been doing rounds of containment zones and hotspots in the district and has now made the emergency vehicle his home. “I sleep in the ambulance, I shower when I find a tubewell in a field. Arrangements for my food are made by the district hospital where I work. I have decided to go home only once we win the battle against coronavirus,” Bharti told TOI on Friday. Dr Neeraj Sharma, in-charge of the rapid action team against Covid-19 in Sambhal, said Bharti was part of the team since the outbreak in the district. “We have brought nearly 1,100 suspected Covid-19 patients for tests at the district hospital and at least 700 of them were ferried by Bharti. His dedication for his duty is unparalleled. He is ready with his ambulance services at any time of the day and night.” Bharti works on contract with the district hospital for Rs 17,000 a month. Sharma said Bharti was told to visit his home in Mandi Kishandas Sarai village, located nine km from the hospital, for Ramzan, but he refused to do so until the district is listed under the green zone. At present, Sambhal district is in the orange zone. Containment areas within red and orange zones have the most restrictions. Sambhal has recorded 19 confirmed cases and two deaths. Over 200 people have been put in quarantine shelters. “I talk to my family every morning to assure them that I’m safe. I can’t go back because I have a duty to do here. With infection rates peaking, ambulance services are required more than ever to carry suspected patients for testing,” said Bharti. He is also aware that older people might be at more risk due to Covid-19, but his age doesn't scare him. “I take all precautions. I sanitise the ambulance every time I bring in a suspected patient and make sure the medical staff use sanitiser before boarding the vehicle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-warrior-for-42-days-65-year-old-has-slept-in-ambulance-says-will-go-home-once-coronavirus-war-is-over/articleshow/75497397.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Virus shrinks big, fat weddings to family affairs||MANGALURU: The virus has certainly hit big, fat Indian weddings this year and couples-to-be are now just hoping there’s a let-up for a simple ceremony — with masks in the ensemble and socially-distanced family photos. In Dakshina Kannada alone, more than 100 families are scrambling to put plan B in operation for weddings after May 3, dialling priests, local politicians and authorities to figure out quick ceremonies, permissions needed and suitable venues. Bharat (all names changed), for instance, is to marry on May 24. The 29-year-old businessman got engaged to a girl from a neighbouring district in February, in a modest ceremony at her residence. The families had decided on a temple wedding in the morning, followed by a lavish reception for 2,000-odd guests. “We are expecting some relaxation in the lockdown after May 3 and hope the temple wedding can go on as planned. If not, we will hold a small ceremony at home. The reception, of course, stands cancelled. We have approached the district minister for permission. He has put our request on hold as he feels it’s too early to decide,” Bharat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/virus-shrinks-big-fat-weddings-to-family-affairs/articleshow/75496644.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||COVID-19 virus mutates quickly, lockdown should continue to check spread: Dr Vinetz||Bhopal: COVID-19 is a very stable virus, but mutates very quickly and has only human as hosts. Given the experience in Japan, Germany, Singapore where the virus had been contained but resurfaced on relaxation of social distancing norms, for India it’s advisable to continue lockdown in affected areas, said Professor Dr Joseph Vinetz, world-renowned infectious disease expert at Yale University. He answered queries from TOI on the nature of pandemic and its medications. Excerpts:  When will Covid-19 end and how to understand that the curve is flattening off? n There are three kinds of numbers. First is number of test confirmed positive patients, and this needs to be normalized to denominator of 100,000. Second is number of deaths. Deaths lag behind new cases by 2 to 3 weeks. Third is the number of tests. About 1 to 2% of all cases result in death. For a confirmed death due to COVID-19, one can estimate number of cases simply by multiplying by 50 or 100 and have a reasonable estimate of number of total cases, with in a margin of error. The infection incubation 2 to 28 days or in some cases 66 days and how could we be sure that spreading of infection is under control? n We are observing most people are a symptomatic Population based testing is needed to know whether the spread of infection is under control. The swab test which detects the RNA of the virus is expensive but demonstrates the presence of the virus. The test is not perfect and only detects about 60 to 80% of cases because is it a bit difficult to sample deep into the nose so that sometimes there are false negative tests. As for antibody test, no matter what the result, ‘immunity to infection’ for a person remains to be proven. Medics in US and Europe are talking about difficulties in intubation (use of ventilators) of COVID-19 patients because of hardening of lungs. They have been trying intubation from stomach and back. Are we advising our doctors to intubate patients from stomach or back in case of difficulties?  n The use of ventilators for COVID19 requires skill in intensive care medicine. I would not describe the lungs as being hardening, but rather filled with fluid and other damage which makes the lungs resistant to ventilation. Putting people on their stomachs to breathe has some advantage at least in the short term. Chest X rays are used to know the infection in lungs (big white area in lungs ) in COVID patients abroad ? What would be your advice ? n Regular chest x-rays are useful to identify the presence of infiltrates and are fast and inexpensive to perform. Is Hydroxychroloquine useful for COVID patients?  n There remains no evidence that hydroxychloroquine is useful for the treatment of COVID- 19 patients. I have seen dozens of patients receiving this medication with no evident effect. In fact at least 10% of patients have to have this medication stopped because of dangerous heart rhythms. It has a mild effect on dampening the immune system which definitely could cause damage in this disease, but we have not been able to observe any effect whatsoever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-virus-mutates-quickly-lockdown-should-continue-to-check-spread-dr-vinetz/articleshow/75497400.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||Health dept conducts pool sampling inBrahmpura after reports of fresh cases||Bareilly: A day after a 54-year-old woman and her 29-year-old son were tested positive for Covid-19 in Brahmpura of Bareilly city, the health department started pool sampling of suspected cases here in one-kilometre containment zone. On Friday, a mobile medical unit was deployed in Brahmpura where the health team led by district epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas conducted awareness drive on novel coronavirus in the area. The health team collected pool samples of neighbours of the infected person. Besides, 12 teams screened 5,110 people living in 1,022 houses in Brahmpura but did not find any suspected cases. However, teams found two people who returned to Bareilly from other places. Similarly, 38 teams conducted door-to-door survey and screened 4,375 houses in Hajiyapur on Friday and found 24 people who came here from other cities. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The 29-year-old Covid-19 patient works as a receptionist at a private hospital located at Stadium road. The test report of pool test of the staff of this private hospital has been found negative. Also, 24 individual samples and the pool test reports of 300-bed hospital’s staff have tested negative.” With no positive case reported in Bareilly on Friday, the total number of cases in the district stands at 10, including one death and six recovered. After these fresh cases were reported this week, the Centre has identified Bareilly as "red zone district". Two patients from Brahmpura and a 20-year-old youth from Shahbaz Palli village under Ramnagar block of the district are under treatment at community health centre (CHC) in Bithri Chainpur which has been designated as Covid-19 level one hospital. Even 14 patients from Budaun and one patient from Shahjahanpur who, too, were tested positive are currently under treatment at Covid-19 level one hospital which has 30 beds. Two health teams with 25 members each are presently working at this hospital in shifts. Officials said these two teams will soon be quarantined and teams from Budaun district will resume duty here from May 6. Director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey, said, “Apart from CHC in Bithri Chainpur, NER hospital with 65 beds has been affiliated as Covid-19 level one hospital. We are looking for one more CHC in Bareilly to upgrade it as level one hospital.” Officials said patients from Bareilly division has been kept at one hospital to save manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/health-dept-conducts-pool-sampling-inbrahmpura-after-reports-of-fresh-cases/articleshow/75497409.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Nagpur||Thakur meets Deshmukh over covid||Amravati: Concerned by the ever growing number of covid-19 positive cases in the city, Maharashtra Minister for Women and Child Development and guardian minister of the district, Adv Yashomati Thakur, called on veteran politician and ex-MLC, Prof B T Deshmukh, and sought his guidance and advice on the possible ways and means to control the spread of coronavirus which had infected 53 persons, including ten deaths. “I discussed the situation with him (Deshmukh) and issued instructions to the administration to act accordingly,” Thakur told TOI. “I asked the administration to do micro planning for high risk and low risk areas and intensify the survey and health check up drives,” said Thakur. She added that remedial measures taken were discussed. “Deshmukh asked me to focus more on the Red Zone by dividing it into high risk and low risk areas and also to intensify health check up drives. He suggested effective implementation of preventive measures for high risk areas through deployment of necessary squads, health check ups, information about suspects and collection of their throat swabs,” said Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thakur-meets-deshmukh-over-covid/articleshow/75511509.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||India lodges protest with Pak over killing of man along LoC||NEW DELHI: India registered a protest with Pakistan on Friday over the killing of an Indian national in unprovoked firing by Pakistani forces, official sources said. A young man was killed and another injured when Pakistan army violated the ceasefire and resorted to mortar shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch district on Thursday. Eighteen-year-old Gulfraz Ahmed was killed and another person was injured when shells hit their village in Mankote sector. A Pakistani soldier was killed in retaliatory firing by Indian forces. Pakistan had earlier this week summoned an Indian diplomat to register a protest over alleged ceasefire violations by Indian forces alo- ng the LoC. Pakistan had claimed that due to “indiscriminate and unprovoked firing” by India in Rakhchikri sector on Tuesday, two women sustained serious injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-lodges-protest-with-pak-over-killing-of-man-along-loc/articleshow/75499223.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||Test reports of 134 people, including 7 prime suspects, return negative||Pilibhit: Seven people had been quarantined in a single room of a shelter home, along with a 24-year-old youth, who had returned to Pilibhit from Indore district on April 21, and tested positive on April 26. On Thursday evening, the district health department heaved a sigh of relief when test reports of all seven returned negative. The reports were part of a tranche of test reports of 134 suspects in the district, which had been issued on April 30 by Lucknow-based Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. All of them returned negative. Additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi said the negative results of the seven quarantined roommates of the infected migrant youth was a relief for the district administration, as they were being viewed as highly susceptible. The administration had already prohibited inward and outward traffic at villages of all seven suspects, in addition to getting them properly sanitized, as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/test-reports-of-134-people-including-7-prime-suspects-return-negative/articleshow/75497420.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||Migrant worker on way back to Bihar from Delhi on bicycle dies in UP’s Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A 35-year-old migrant worker who was on his way back to Bihar from Delhi on his bicycle with a group died on National Highway-24 in Shahjahanpur after his condition suddenly deteriorated on Friday morning. The man, identified as Dharamveer, was a resident of Khareta village in Bihar’s Khagaria district. He was one of the seven members of the group which decided to take rest near an under-construction toll plaza when it suddenly started to rain on Thursday night. On Friday morning, Dharamveer complained of chest pain and difficulty in breathing and died before receiving any medical attention. His sample was sent for Covid-19 test. The body would be sent for postmortem after receiving the test report on Saturday. The health department has also quarantined all the other six migrant labourers in the group following medical screening. Dharamveer used to live in Shakur Basti area of Delhi. Dharamveer had returned to Delhi after celebrating Holi in his hometown. The group feared that the lockdown would be extended again, which is why they left for Bihar on their bicycles on Tuesday morning. Shahjahanpur Kotwali SHO Pravesh Singh told TOI, “The dial 112 team received a call from one of the members of the group. When our team reached there, one of them was gasping for breath and before we could do anything, he fell unconscious. He was rushed to a medical college in Shahjahanpur where the doctors pronounced him dead. Health officials have quarantined other members of the group. We have informed the family of the victim in Bihar.” Shahjahanpur medical college principal Dr Abhay Singh said, “The man was dead when brought to the hospital. As a precautionary measure, we have sent his sample for Covid-19 tests and his colleagues have been quarantined. The autopsy of the body would be conducted once the lab report is available to us.” Hundreds of migrant labourers are passing through Shahjahanpur district every day. Local NGOs, administration are arranging for their food and other possible support. A senior official said, “We cannot keep the migrants in any shelter home. Because once we record their presence, we have to quarantine them for 14 days – something they don’t want. This is the only reason we are allowing them to move further. We are providing them sanitisers, masks, food and checking their temperature using thermal scanner at different places.” Watch From Delhi to Bihar on bicycle, migrant worker meets tragic death in Shahjahanpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/migrant-worker-on-way-back-to-bihar-from-delhi-on-bicycle-dies-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75497414.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Three more succumb to Covid-19||Vadodara: Three persons died due to Covid-19 and 19 others tested positive in the city. The total number of cases reported in Vadodara city and district now stands at 324. The fresh deaths were reported of persons residing in the Wadi and Nagarwada area of the city. The deceased include an elderly man and an elderly woman residing in the Wadi area. An elderly man residing in the Nagarwada area of the city also succumbed. While two deatths took place in the SSG Hospital, one person died at the GMERS, Gotri Hospital. So far, 24 persons have died in Vadodara due to the disease. The fresh cases were reported from Mughalwada, Wadi, EME Campus, Nagarwada, Panigate and Sangam areas of the city. Sangam witnessed the first case since the outbreak. The case from the EME Campus was the fourth case connected to the area. A 60-year-old man who was kept at the Covid Care Centre at the High Speed Railway Training Institute was discharged on Friday. Four persons tested positive in Panchmahal district. These include a six-month old baby from Halol. The baby boy’s two family members have tested positive earlier. These include the baby’s father and grandfather. Three others who tested positive are from Godhra. The district has reported 43 positive cases so far.The 19 who tested positive were from 142 persons whose samples taken. Around 187 patients were still under treatment at hospitals and Covid care centres of whom 172 are said to be stable. Ten patients are on oxygen while five are ventilators of BiPAP machines. The total number of discharged patients has increased to 113 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-more-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75498064.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||Relief for Uddhav, Maha legislative council polls on May 21||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Friday announced biennial election to nine legislative council seats in Maharashtra, with polling to be held on May 21. The schedule of the elections, deferred earlier due to the lockdown, will allow chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to become a member of the state legislature before the May 27 deadline to remain in his post. As for other elections currently on hold on account the Covid-19 crisis — including biennial polls to 18 Rajya Sabha seats as well elections to legislative council seats in Bihar, UP and Telangana — the EC said it would take a review next week. Constitutional norms require a minister (including PM and CM) who is not a member of either House of Parliament/legislature at the time of assuming office, to be elected within the next six months. Uddhav’s six-month deadline will expire on May 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/relief-for-uddhav-maha-legislative-council-polls-on-may-21/articleshow/75499228.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499340.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Criminal courts directed to dispose of seized liquor||The Madras high court has directed all criminal courts in the state to take immediate steps for the disposal of liquor that is available in their property rooms after taking an inventory. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice T Krishnavalli passed the order on a suo motu plea after taking cognizance of the fact that four addicts stole seized alcohol from the property room of the Vedasandur judicial magistrate (JM) court in Dindigul district. A communication sent by the state public prosecutor A Natarajan to the registrar (judicial) of high court Madurai bench sought to issue appropriate direction for speedy disposal of alcohol items in the courts.In his communication dated April 28, Natarajan stated that the Dindigul prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) had registered a case, seized and produced a huge consignment of seized spirit before the Vedasandur court. The spirit was kept in the property room. Since all Tasmac outlets were closed following the Covid-19 pandemic, some desperate addicts stole the spirit from the property room. Four people involved in the theft were arrested. The judges observed that there appears to be substance and force in the request made by the public prosecutor. The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and the Rules framed thereunder do provide for expeditious disposal of alcohol items. Hence, the judges gave the direction and added said that if required, minimum samples may be retained depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. The judges also observed that the inventory and photographs/ videos certified by the JM shall be treated as evidence during trial in lieu of the actual contraband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/criminal-courts-directed-to-dispose-of-seized-liquor/articleshow/75498085.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 2, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499339.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499343.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Airlines need to hike last-minute fares to break even: CAPA||Mumbai: An estimate worked out by global aviation consultancy firm, Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), states that the average break-even fares for airlines post-lockdown will see an increase of 40-100% in the second quarter of this fiscal. The increase in fares will be due to certain seats being kept empty to adhere to social distancing norms and increased sanitation requirements, said the report. The report states that a low-cost airline will have to price its last-minute Delhi-Mumbai ticket at Rs 22,700 in order to recover the added costs. But due to poor demand, airlines will find it difficult to even sell at an average last-minute fare of Rs 7,000 in the second quarter. For the airline sector, the second quarter, which has always been an acid test, will be a make-or-break period this year, said the CAPA report. The report has listed the reasons why the average break-even fares would increase by 40-100%. As per Bureau of Civil Aviation Security requirements, the middle seats and the last three rows will need to be kept empty. Hence an airline can sell a maximum of 108 seats on an 180-seat aircraft, which is 60% of its capacity. The airline will also have to bear the added cost increased aircraft turn-around time on ground due to new sanitation requirements and need to maintain social distancing during boarding and disembarking. An indicative profile of low-cost carrier bookings on Delhi-Mumbai route indicated that 30% of seats are sold more than 15 days prior to departure at an average of Rs 3,500 per seat; 40% of seats are sold between 7 and 15 days prior at around Rs 4,500; 30% of seats are sold less than 7 days prior to departure at an average fare of around Rs 7,000, which could increase up to Rs 10,000 for last minute passengers. “If a similar profile is applied with social distancing in place, where 30% of seats are sold at an average of Rs 3,500, and 40% at Rs 4,500, then the average fare to be charged to the remaining passengers will be significantly higher,” said CAPA. If there are only 108 seats available for sale, the 30% last-minute bookings would have to be priced at an average fare of Rs 13,900 to break even. “If daily aircraft utilisation declines from 11 hours to 8 hours, this rate will increase to Rs 22,700,’’ it said. The report also said that airlines would find it difficult to sell even an average last minute fare of Rs 7,000 in Q2 given the weakened state of demand. Since these are highly uncertain times, the CAPA estimate comes with a caveat that the numbers might be revised in the future. The calculation does not take into account the fixed costs that airlines would incur, as initially a sizeable proportion of the fleet is likely to remain on the ground due to weak demand. “Some carriers may lose less money by remaining grounded,” the report said. CAPA has revised downward its traffic estimates for FY2021 to 55-70 million domestic and 20-27 million international passengers, the report said. The total estimated operational fleet would be 345-395 aircraft as compared to the pre-Covid fleet of around 650 aircraft, which would result in a surplus of 255-305 aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airlines-need-to-hike-last-minute-fares-to-break-even-capa/articleshow/75498535.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Dabhoi cops return to duty amid rousing welcome||Vadodara: Around two dozen cops from Dabhoi police station who were put under home quarantined after a head constable tested positive for coronavirus were felicitated by the residents of town on Thursday after they resumed their duties. Some 26 policemen of a police station, including an inspector, had to undergo quarantine after its head constable Rajendrasinh Zala had tested positive. All of them were in contact with Zala and so had to stay in the mandatory quarantine period. Zala had contracted the virus from the paan masala thief, Ayub Tai, whom he had arrested for looting a grocery shop owner of his tobacco stock. Zala was discharged on April 27 and Tai the next day. However, as the other police staff had two more days of their two-week quarantine period to end, they remained away from the police station. The police station’s charge was handed over to a sub-inspector from parole furlough squad of Vadodara rural police. On Thursday morning when they all reached the police station, some residents of Dabhoi town felicitated and welcomed by showering flowers on them. “It was a small gesture where we wanted to thank them for their work they have been doing at the risk of their lives and also conveyed our wishes so that they continue their duty in lockdown without getting affected,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dabhoi-cops-return-to-duty-amid-rousing-welcome/articleshow/75498077.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75498102.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499345.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499342.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu may be less liberal in relaxing norms||CHENNAI: Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. The state cabinet will meet at 11am on Saturday to decide on it. “The Centre’s guidelines are a virtual lifting of the lockdown. The state may not go that way, at least not till May 15. The state is yet to implement many of the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. So, we will consider local factors and we are at liberty to be more restrictive,” said a source. A panel for exit strategy submitted its report to the chief minister on Friday. E-passes set to be provided to industriesA day after a health expert committee endorsed a phased exit plan, finance secretary S Krishnanled committee for exit strategy submitted its interim report to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday with recommendations on sector-specific relaxations. The cabinet note will be prepared based on that, sources said. Meanwhile late on Thursday, chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on April 15. Tamil Nadu has about 37,220 factories with more than 24 lakh employees. At present, intra-district, inter-district and interstate movement of people is restricted and emergency travel passes are issued by the district administration. Henceforth, to streamline the issue of passes, an online portal, TN e-pass, has been developed by Tamil Nadu e-governance agency (https://tnepass/tnega.org). While intra-district passes (travel within a district) will be issued by district collectors/bdistrict industries centres or Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner in the city, inter-district passes (to travel outside the district) and inter-state pass (to go out of the state) will be issued centrally from the state e-pass control room in Chennai by a team of officials from industries, MSME, police and revenue. Individuals can get epasses for three reasons - marriage, funeral and medical emergency. “When more areas are opened up, there would be a huge rush for passes. E-passes will help employees, industries and individuals,” said a senior official. All organisations (shops and establishments, IT, industries) can apply for these passes by uploading their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhar as proof. Details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees will be notified by the government from time to time. The SOP on social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, include compulsory wearing of face cover, prohibition on gathering of five or more people and sanitisation of work place between shifts. Large meetings are prohibited, and spitting is punishable with a fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-may-be-less-liberal-in-relaxing-norms/articleshow/75499338.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana records 18 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death||CHANDIGARH: NCR districts of Haryana continue to dominate the Covid-19 positive case tally with 18 more cases and a death reported in the state. This takes the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana to 357 with four deaths till Friday evening. Six persons have been discharged from hospitals, taking the number of discharged persons to 241. Now, there are 112 active cases in various state hospitals. Faridabad recorded eight positive cases and one death while Jhajjar, Gurugram and Sonipat recorded four, three and one case respectively. Sources said, an elderly man died in a private hospital of Faridabad on Wednesday evening. His last rites were conducted in line with Covid-19 protocol on Thursday. Deaths were also reported in Ambala, Karnal and Rohtak. Sources said, all the eight fresh positive cases are first contacts of positive cases reported in the city over the last four days. With Friday’s count, Faridabad tops the tally with 61 cases, followed by 58 from Nuh and 67 from Gurugram. Those found Covid-19 positive in Gurugram and Sonipat are also said to be close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases reported since Monday. In Jhajjar, Covid-19 postive patients are vegetable suppliers and vendors from Jhajjar city and Bahadurgarh. In Sirsa, the two Covid-19 positive cases are pilgrims who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. They are being treated. More testing facilities have been set up and more persons have completed quarantine. Besides, more people have been booked for violating lockdown. Till Friday, 20,379 out of 35,887 persons completed quarantine at their houses or quarantine centres. Till Friday, health officials had drawn samples from 30,191 persons of whom 27,784 tested negative. Results of the rest are awaited. Scribes, deputy CM test negativeAll journalists and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who took the Covid-19 test on Wednesday tested negative. The samples were collected by a team of health workers from MLA Hostel dispensary and civil hospital, Panchkula. The samples were examined at a laboratory in Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital, Karnal. Health minister Anil Vij confirmed the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-records-18-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death/articleshow/75499232.cms||Manvir Saini
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Police ask pharmacies not to sell select drugs without prescription||Ramanathapuram: Miscreants purchasing select drugs across the counter to get a high has forced the Ramanathapuram district police to issue an advisory to pharmacies not to sell a list of drugs without prescription. While the closure of Tasmac outlets has made many addicts to come up with innovative methods to brew illicit liquor, some are resorting to purchasing medicines used for treating cough, anxiety and panic disorders. On April 28, the Thondi police arrested a 26-year-old and a 23-year-old after they were caught red-handed while leaving a pharmacy with tablets used for treating anxiety and panic disorders and cough syrup without prescription. The pharmacy owner was also arrested and the trio was booked under four sections of the NDPS Act, 1985. So, police issued the advisory with a list of drugs – Tydol, Diazepam, Mantrax, Alprazolam, Nitrazepam, Methamphetamine and Chlordiazepoxide – that should not be sold by pharmacies without proper prescription. “The list was prepared in coordination with the health department officials and the drug inspector,” superintendent of police (SP) of Ramanathapuram, R V Varun Kumar said. “Among such medicines are cough syrups with alcohol content priced at Rs 20 per bottle and consumed by the addict in one shot. There are also tablets that are dissolved in water and injected. We also come across miscreants faking prescriptions,” said Kumar. Some pharmacies that have run out of business due to the highly-restricted functioning of hospitals are selling these drugs without a prescription. “This could even turn out to be deadly and the pharmacy will be accountable,” the SP said. It would result in cancelling the licence and legal action against the owner as well as the sales personnel. Pharmacies can inform the district police at 9489919722 in case of any suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-ask-pharmacies-not-to-sell-select-drugs-without-prescription/articleshow/75498109.cms||M K Ananth
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||No-cost indigenous hands-free system keeps tribal workers safe, sanitized||VADODARA: Like always, Kanchan Rathwa, a casual labourer from Raysingpura village of Chhota Udepur district reached the outskirts of his village in Raysingpura on Wednesday morning. He is part of the construction labourers employed to dig a pond. However, unlike the everyday practice of getting a bucket of water to wash his hands and feet after work, Rathwa was introduced to curious-looking object on Wednesday. He saw two PET bottles hanging from a bamboo rod and tied to a wooden stick on the ground with a rope. To his surprise, he was asked to push the stick to the ground with his feet, while cupping his palms under the bottle. He did as told and some liquid splashed on to his palms. Kanchan was asked to rub it vigorously all over his hand, terming the act as sanitizing — a new terminology for a tribal worker like him. Kanchan went home a happy and safe man. The two plastic bottles hanging to the bamboo frame and tied to the wooden stick that resembles like the accelerator pedal of a car, is an indigenous hands-free sanitizer system created for around 50 casual labourers at the pond site under MGNREGA scheme. The hand sanitizer system at Raysingpura was done as an experiment “We had to follow the norms of social distancing for the workers and also ensure that they could get hand sanitizers at the workplace. But if 50 workers use the same bottle, chances of them contracting infection was high. So, we thought of this foot-pedal idea so that they can sanitize themselves without even having to touch the bottle,” explained Maitri Leuva, Chhota Udepur taluka development officer. Labourers started work a few days ago after lockdown was eased in the rural parts of the country. Within two days, the no-cost hands-free system became very popular in the entire region and could easily be replicated across the state. “After the system was installed on Wednesday, people from neighbouring villages visited to have a look and now they too want to have a similar system in their village,” said Vikram Rathwa, sarpanch of Raysingpura. “The system seems to be a grand success within two days. We will try to replicate the same system at other sites of Sujalam Sufalam Yojana in the district,” said Munaf Sheikh, assistant works manager (MGNREGA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-cost-indigenous-hands-free-system-keeps-tribal-workers-safe-sanitized/articleshow/75498096.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Plea to waive cable TV payment for 3 months||MADURAI: A consumer body appealed to the chief minister to waive the monthly subscription fees for the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation Limited from April to June. In a representation, Empower centre for consumer and environment education, research and advocacy asked the government to consider the economic condition of the people. Executive director of the organisation, A Sankar cited that that people, especially those from the lower income strata of society are confined to houses since the lockdown. MADURAI“Unable to go out for work, farmers, farmhands, construction and unorganised workers are at home for nearly one-and-a-half months. Charging them a few hundred rupees a month will burden them amidst the economic loss,” he said. Shankar said that TV is one of the main sources of information for them on the Covid-19 pandemic and also a source of entertainment. “Disconnecting the lines will add to undue depression. We also appeal to the government to pass directions to the private set-top box service providers not to disconnect the lines during the three-month period,” he said. Citing similar reasons, the Ramanathapuram district police has asked cable television operators not to disconnect lines due to non-payment of charges. In case of any issues, consumers can report to the district police at 9489919722. Police have also circulated the message along with the number on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-waive-cable-tv-payment-for-3-months/articleshow/75498097.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||As poachers hunt down hares, forest officials net Rs 11 lakh fine||Madurai: Hunting with native breed dogs and torch lights has become rampant in the rural areas of Tenkasi district after the lockdown was imposed. Forest department officials in the Kadayam range have collected a fine of Rs 11.4 lakh in less than two weeks from 48 poachers caught hunting hare in the buffer zone of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR). Hare being a schedule IV protected species, the offenders were booked under various sections of the wildlife protection Act and fines ranging between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 collected. “Fine of Rs 50,000 will be paid by two more accused on Saturday. The offences were committed outside the forest area in Avudayanur, Thipanampetti, Kasinathapuram and Chettikulam,” forest range officer C Nellai Nayagam told TOI. Nellai Nayagam said that usually those engaged in poaching the small animal for its meat are local villagers. “Most of them are masons and helpers in the construction sector. During the lockdown, they hunt every day,” the officer said. Some of the accused are regular offenders while the others are first-timers. The team of 16 comprising trainee range officers, foresters and anti-poaching watchers led by the range officer conducted the intensive raids based on a tip on the increasing incidents of poaching. Tracking the accused turned out to be tougher than they expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-poachers-hunt-down-hares-forest-officials-net-rs-11-lakh-fine/articleshow/75498119.cms||M K Ananth
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Madurai blood bank stock dips as donations go down||Madurai: As the Madurai blood bank’s stocks are fast running out with donations coming few and far between during the lockdown, the members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, (DYFI) came forward to help them to restock their supplies through organized blood donation camps. As Covid-19 is not known to spread through blood, the donations can go on, said experts. Dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital, Dr J Sangumani inaugurated a blood donation camp on Friday. With a capacity to store 3,000 units of blood, the blood bank of the Madurai Medical College usually has about 2,000 units in reserve through regular donations. The students of colleges make up for a major share of the donors throughout the academic year, which dips slightly when the annual holidays are announced in April and May. Dr M Sintha, Madurai medical college (MMC) blood transfusion officer, said that they usually receive between 600 units to 1,000 units through donations. But, since the lockdown started they had not been receiving them. “One good thing is that we have not had the need for large quantities of blood as accidents have come down, and most of the surgeries were elective. On normal days, we would have used about 80 to 100 units per day, but now it is just about 20 units,” she said. The blood bank had collected over 25,000 units of blood in the year 2018 and 2019. However, anticipating a higher demand for blood after lockdown, MMC has decided to contact their regular donors and it was the members of the DYFI who have come forward and donated about 150 units in the last two weeks through special camps. When asked if there was any special screening for donors required in view of the Covid-19 crisis, Dr Sintha said that the donors are given a long questionnaire, which they have to fill up before donating. The main questions are in regard to their health, recent travel history and if they came from within the Covid-19 containment zones in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-blood-bank-stock-dips-as-donations-go-down/articleshow/75498126.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus spreading fast in Chennai, case count crosses 1,000-mark||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 positive count continued to rise in Chennai, which accounted for 176 of the 203 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu on Friday. With this, the number of cases in Chennai crossed 1,000. The toll in the state went up to 28, with the death of a 98-year-old man at the Omandurar multispeciality hospital in Chennai. Of the 27 Covid-19 cases in the rest of the state, eight were in Chengalpet and two in Kancheepuram, both districts adjoining Chennai, which now has 1,082 cases. Researchers at the National Institute of Epidemiology, an ICMR institution in Chennai, said the doubling time (weekly average) — the time it takes for the cases to double — had come down in Chennai from nine days on Monday to five days on May 1. During that time, the city recorded 512 new cases (nearly 50% of the total cases in the state). “The doubling time came down to seven on Tuesday and was six in the next two days. On Friday, it was just five days,” the researchers said. This means the rate of infection in the city is increasing rapidly. Last week, the doubling time was hovering between seven and eight days. Contact tracing no longer simple, says health officialChennai’s expanding clusters have put the health care machinery under pressure. “Contact tracing is no longer simple. On the one hand, the number of people whose source of infection can’t be identified continues to go up. On the other hand, we are seeing multiple sources of infection for some others,” said a senior health official. For instance, an oil merchant in Pulianthope who tested positive on Friday may be been infected because of his visits to the wholesale market in Koyambedu or because he was living in a containment zone. “His wife also tested positive. There are at least a dozen others living with them. Swabs have been taken for all of them,” a zonal health official said. At least five more people from the Koyambedu fruit vendor’s neighbourhood in Ayyappa Nagar near Chinmaya Nagar tested positive. More and more policemen, vegetable vendors, grocers and contacts and neighbours of conservancy staff are testing positive. In almost every zone, there were clusters of cases. There were 11 people from the same street in Murty Nagar in Vyasarpadi, nine of them from Maddox street in Choolai and an equal number of them from VR Pillai Street in Triplicane. The cluster among health care workers has widened too. On Friday, at least eight doctors, including two post graduates at the Madras Medical College, a couple of house-surgeons attached to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, one from ESI Medical College in KK Nagar, two doctors from a private hospital in Chennai and another from Madurai were tested positive. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state does 165 tests per million population compared to the national average of 65. “At least 14% of samples tested in India are from TN. We have 46 testing labs across the state. So far, we have tested 1.29 lakh samples for 1.20 lakh people. We are slightly behind a more densely populated Maharashtra, which has screened 1.39 lakh samples,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virus-spreading-fast-in-city-case-count-crosses-1000-mark/articleshow/75498151.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 2, 2020||Dehradun||Parents allege unavailability of NCERT books in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Several city residents have complained of unavailability of NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) books in shops of the city and have alleged that the schools are forcing their wards to buy non-NCERT books, which are expensive. Talking to TOI, several parents said that despite government’s strict order to the schools to implement NCERT books, school officials are resorting to other reference books which are exorbitantantly priced. “My son is a Class VII student at a private school. The officials of that school are pressurising students to buy costly reference books by arguing that they have better material than NCERT ones. Schools must not fool parents and use NCERT books as directed by the government,” said Yogesh Bisht, a local resident. Many other city residents echoed the viewpoint. Meanwhile, the education department has given a strict order that every school in the state should comply with the norms set. “The education department has given strict orders that schools have to use only NCERT books and if they are using some other reference books, then the cost of that one should be similar to the cost of its NCERT counterpart. We have received complaints from the parents regarding the matter. They are alleging that schools are forcing them to use costly non-NCERT reference books. We are looking into this matter and will take strict action against any school which is found to be violating the orders,” said Asha Rani Painuly, state’s chief education officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-allege-unavailability-of-ncert-books-in-doon/articleshow/75496707.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Teacher feeds kids of guest workers every day||Madurai: A government school teacher in Sivaganga has been providing food to 25 children of guest workers since the lockdown began to ensure they did not go hungry. T Balakumar, 39, is a teacher in the primary school in Seenimadai in Sivaganga district. As soon as the lockdown was announced, he identified a group of workers with disabilities near his school. He came to know that the workers, natives of Gujarat, were street performers. They were living on the of the Sivaganga - Ramanathapuram highway, in Sannidhi Pudukulam, about 5km away from Manamadurai. There were 25 children in the group and they did not have access to food or water. “There is nothing in the place where they live now, no water, electricity or shops for food, so I decided to feed the children and provide groceries and water to the elders,” he said. He had approached the local Lions Club, which has been distributing food to the needy, and made small donations and obtained permission to take 25 parcels of food from them every day for lunch. “I know how important it is to keep the children happy and that can only be done if they are given at least one proper meal a day. I have been ensuring it for the past 34 days,” he said. “These families are also suffering due to the language barrier. I am happy to serve children during the lockdown, though in a different way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teacher-feeds-kids-of-guest-workers-every-day/articleshow/75498135.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Guest workers won’t go back if work resumes here: Collectors||Madurai: District administrations are in the process of enumerating guest workers who want to return to their home state, but several district collectors are of the opinion that very few would like to return once industrial activity resumes and the government lifts the lockdown in the coming days. “If we ask now many may want to go, but they would reconsider once they start earning again,” said a collector. Madurai has a very small share of guest workers’ population, of close to 4,700. “We already have their details and are in the process of segregating on how many are interested in returning to their home states and the process will be completed in a day. Only a few are insisting to go back as most of them are staying in the premises of the company that employed them,” Madurai collector T G Vinay said. Industry bodies like Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association and the chamber have urged the government to allow resumption of industrial activity. They believe that the government’s decision to reopen industries will drastically reduce the number of people who want to return to their states. “I feel they should stay back for some more time. They travelled this far from their home states due to lack of opportunities there. Now they would have the urge to return due to the inability to work and earn. But a week after returning they would want to get back to work due to lack of opportunities there,” a district collector said. Another collector said they will not force the migrant workforce to stay back but try to explain that the districts here are safe. “The chance of getting infected after going to their home states is more as many like them will return from other states where there are more Covid-19 infections,” added another collector. In Kanyakumari, there are about 6,000 migrant labourers which include nearly 2,000 from West Bengal who predominantly working in the brick kilns. “We will do as directed by the government,” said collector Prashant M Wadnere. Employers too are hesitant to lose their workforce as the chance of bouncing back will be affected which in turn will affect the overall economic activities locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guest-workers-wont-go-back-if-work-resumes-here-collectors/articleshow/75498130.cms||M K Ananth
May 2, 2020||Vadodara||Comfortable quarantine cells developed for Covid-19 patients||VADODARA: A group of architects, designers, engineers and students has developed quarantine cells to help Covid-19 patients, which can also be used as instant shelters for migrant labourers and thousands of people stranded due to lockdown in the country. These cells are not only cost-efficient, but can be easily deployed and built in less than half an hour. The first set of 100 such quarantine cells will be deployed at Gujarat’s coastal town - Khambhat - which has emerged as a hotspot in central Gujarat with over 60 Covid-19 positive cases recorded until Thursday. A student startup foundation – Centre for Human Habitat and Alternate Technology (CHHAT) – has developed this non-profit design solution. “The design of the cell is such that it can be replicated easily to form a cluster and placed both indoor as well as in shaded outdoor conditions,” said professor Nirav Hirpara, director of School of Architecture at Vadodara Design Academy and founder of CHHAT. “The isolation cells can be prepared using bamboo, PVC pipe and steel scaffolding. With support from Rotary Club of Anand Round Town, we have prototyped quarantine cells with bamboo and high-density fabric at a cost less than Rs1,500,” said Anand-based architect Sapan Hirpara, who has coordinated the project with core team from Hyderabad, Indore, Mehsana, Ahmedabad, Surat, Porbandar, Vadodara and Goa. “Currently, at government quarantine facilities, Rs5,000 is spent just on partition for each isolation unit. Using our design, one can create three such units for the same cost,” he said. “At Khambhat, with support of Anand MP, Mitesh Patel, these cells will also be used as portable OPDs where medical teams can carry out their screening and sampling activity under trees or shaded outdoors. Since, they can be easily dismantled, the cells can also be transported in ambulances or mobile vans,” he said. The foundation has capacity to build 200 plus such cells a week. “We are also raising funds so that we can help thousands get shelter and comfort during isolation,” said Hirpara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/comfortable-quarantine-cells-developed-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75498124.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Brakes on Covid-days' fleecing: Private ambulance fare fixed in Mohali||MOHALI: District magistrate Girish Dayalan has issued an order to fix the hiring rates of private ambulances, based on complaints that the operators were charging at will for the trips during Covid-19 curfew. He said the private ambulances were engaged for prompt medical assistance to people during the lockdown in force to contain coronavirus. Dayalan said: "In some sectors, private ambulance operators took a hefty amount for shifting patients. The fee ranged from Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 a day, which is beyond the reach of a common man, so we had to fix the charges." The district administration and police now have orders to not only cancel the operating licence on any complaint of overcharging but also register an FIR (first-information report) against the operator. The rate of BLS (basic life support) ambulance (up to 2,000 cc) is now Rs 2,500 a day or Rs 10 for each kilometre. A BLS ambulance of 2,000cc or above can be hired for Rs 3,000 a day or Rs 12 for each kilometre. Similarly, the fare of ACLS (advanced care life support) ambulance is now Rs 4,500 a day or Rs 15 for every kilometre. The fare will be for the distance between hiring spot and drop point. The driver, union, company is accountable for safe dropping, while the person who hires must make the payment. A BLS ambulance carries medical and surgical patients who don't need cardiac monitoring and it carries psychiatric patients. It is used for home discharge of patients from nursing homes and rehabilitation facilities. Each ambulance carries basic life support medical supplies, including glucometers, albuterol, defibrillators, aspirin, EpiPens, pulse oximetry, intranasal naloxone administration, splints, bandages, oxygen tanks and masks, and spinal immobilization equipment. The ACLS ambulance has a paramedic on board along with an emergency medical technician. The ambulance is equipped with airway support equipment, cardiac life support, cardiac monitors as well as a glucose-testing device. Of course, it also carries medication. The patients taken on board require a higher level of medical monitoring. They include those who need continuous IV drip, those put on a ventilator, and those whose heartbeat needs to be monitored. The crew of therse ambulances have a higher level of training than those who operate the BLS ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/brakes-on-covid-days-fleecing-private-ambulance-fare-fixed-in-mohali/articleshow/75499254.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 2, 2020||Business||India Inc gears up to restart operations on cautious note||NEW DELHI: Businesses are treading cautiously on resumption of operations at plants, despite the government on Friday signalling a graded opening up and allowing offices in even red zones to work at a third of their capacity. While companies such as Hyundai and TVS Motor are planning to restart operations with a single shift, other auto companies are expected to take more time to finalise plans. With uncertainty looming large over supply of parts and availability of labour, there is not much scope if the entire business ecosystem is not in place, company executives said. “Even if we are able to produce, what will we do with the manufactured goods if the dealerships are not open in large numbers. We are not even sure about whether trucks will be allowed to pass through red zones into green zones to transport parts or finished products,” a senior executive at a leading two-wheeler company in the Delhi-NCR region told TOI. With restrictions on opening shops, businesses are worried. “This will not be of significant help. Why can’t markets be allowed to open in green zones or even open periodically in orange zones?” said Sandeep Somany, vice-chairman at Hindware. Other problem is how the norms are implemented. “Guidelines are complex and it remains to be seen how the risk profiling into green, yellow and red zones and required protocols for these different zones will actually work in practice. With so many major cities classified as red zones, the overall resumption of economic activity will be relatively limited in the near term,” said Godrej Consumer Products MD and CEO Vivek Gambhir. “We will wait and see what happens on the demand side. Basis on this assessment, we will take a call on whether production should start immediately, or in some more time. We need to map supplier conditions, as around 60% of them were estimated to be in the red zone when we last checked,” said Naveen Soni, senior VP at Toyota Kirloskar Motors. Hyundai Motor India vice-resident B C Datta said the company will seek permission from the Tamil Nadu government to restart a plant, which is in the red zone. “We are awaiting the formal notification from respective state governments. Once we start, it will take a couple of weeks or a little more to get the entire supply chain going and get to normal production levels,” said TVS Motor Co joint MD Sudarshan Venu. Major cities being in red zone is also proving to be difficult for the corporate sector as bulk of the sales come from metros. Companies are also finding it tough to find manpower for loading goods and trucks to transport consignments. “A clear interpretation of the Centre’s guidelines to permit manufacturing of relevant FMCG products is missing at the ground level,” said Dabur India ED Shahrukh Khan. Britannia MD Varun Berry said barring West Bengal, most of its factories were operating. “In West Bengal, three-to-four factories are not operating and if we get the clearances, it will help us reach better capacity.” “We hope that state governments would allow sale of non-essential products in standalone stores as people in red zones need them as much as people in green and orange zones,” said Arvind Mediratta, MD & CEO, Metro Cash & Carry India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-gears-up-to-restart-operations-on-cautious-note/articleshow/75499290.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops, who arrested woman with drugs get quarantined, after she tests coronavirus positive in Ludhiana jail||PATIALA: Six policemen from Sangrur, who had recently arrested a woman drug peddler, had to be quarantined after the woman tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab's Ludhiana jail. The six policemen, who were posted at Bahadur Singh Wala Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) wing in Sangrur, were quarantined on Thursday evening after the Ludhiana health authority informed the Sangrur police about the arrested woman having been tested positive for the virus. All six were part of the police team that had arrested the woman for the possession of drugs on April 27 from Bagrian village. 11gm heroin was recovered from her possession by the police. Following her arrest, the woman was shifted to Ludhiana jail on April 28, where the authorities conducted a Covid-19 test on her. Soon after she was confirmed to be positive with coronavirus, the Ludhiana health authorities informed the Ludhiyana jail officials and also send a message to Sangrur police. Senior superintendent of police Dr Sandeep Garg said, soon after that received the information from Ludhiana, all six policemen, who had arrested her, were asked to get quarantined for 14 days. The district police on Friday sealed Bagrian village and the health authorities started contact tracing of the woman. The health department quarantined two children of the woman, who were staying with their grandparents at Mandore village of Patiala district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-who-arrested-woman-with-drugs-get-quarantined-after-she-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-ludhiana-jail/articleshow/75499287.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 2, 2020||Shimla||Stranded Himachalis file four lakh online requests||DHARAMSHALA: After Himachal Pradesh relaxed norms allowing its people stuck in other states to come back, the online portal for making passes received four lakh applications in a month. On the last day, the count had reached 100 passes per minute, after which the government was forced to suspend the e-pass application facility temporarily late Thursday night. So far, 75,000 people have arrived in the state, with maximum 17,000 in Kangra district. There are above three lakh people from HP who are stuck in various parts of the country. Varun Rattan Singh, CEO of Development Logistics, the company that made the government’s outreach possible, revealed that 60,000 requests were received on Thursday. “It was 100 applications per minute. This figure was seven applications per minute a few days back. I request people to apply only in case of grave emergency or genuine need. People should be responsible enough to let all get benefit of technology,” he said. This application was launched on March 29, 2020. Out of four lakh applications received, one lakh requests have been approved, he said. Different types of passes were made to identify people. The state government has temporarily suspended this service following mass movement and public anger on account of violations made by these newly arrivals. People entering the state have been asked to self quarantine, but not all are adhering to the norms. Since Kangra district has recorded most arrivals, the district magistrate announced the suspension of this facility on Wednesday. The principal secretary to the chief minister, Sanjay Kundu issued a statement, saying there are nearly 3.50 lakh people who want to make a comeback to the state and number people wanting to leave is also nearly the same. According to data available, a maximum number of 9,395 people entered Kangra district on Thursday. In Sirmaur district, there were 167 entries only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/stranded-himachalis-file-four-lakh-online-requests/articleshow/75499295.cms||Shri Puri
May 2, 2020||Business||Lockdown brings auto industry’s April sales to zero||NEW DELHI: It was a painful first month of fiscal 2020-21 for the auto industry that registered nil sales in April amid the lockdown and retail as well as mobility restrictions in place across the country due to the coronavirus pandemic. Companies say that there has been loss of production and “sales opportunity worth thousands of crores of rupees” as the lockdown remains in place, though some restrictions will be lifted from May 4. Companies making cars, SUVs, commercial vehicles and two-wheelers such as Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Mahindra, Tata Motors, Ashok Leyland, Toyota, Hero MotoCorp and Honda reported zero deliveries, even as some managed to export a few hundred units after port operations were allowed. A nervous bunch of companies say going will be extremely tough this year as “livelihood will take precedence over large-ticket purchases” and people will be wary of malls, markets and dealerships. “Maruti had zero sales in the domestic market in April. This was because in compliance with government orders, all production facilities were closed. Meanwhile, following resumption of port operations, the first export shipment of 632 units was undertaken from the Mundra port, ensuring that all guidelines for safety were followed,” the company said. Toyota said the Covid crisis has only exacerbated the “already-prevalent pressures” on the automobile industry, which had been battling slowdown blues for the past many months. “But challenges this time are multi-dimensional. Lockdown was absolutely necessary... however, the unavoidable side-effect has been the severe adverse impact on the economic activity,” said Naveen Soni, senior VP (sales and services) at Toyota. “We have concerns on how business will be conducted even when we open up. The outlook is grim. We need massive support from the government and from automobile makers,” a top retailer in Delhi — who has dealerships for multiple brands — said. “A vehicle manufacturer cannot commence operations if any of its suppliers is unable to undertake production. Further, production for a vehicle manufacturer would only amount to adding inventory and thus blocking working capital in case dealers are unable to sell vehicles,” a joint statement signed by three industry associations SIAM (manufacturers), ACMA (part makers) and FADA (dealers) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-brings-auto-industrys-apr-sales-to-zero/articleshow/75499300.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||262-bed Covid-19 facility at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute||AHMEDABAD: At the new building of the Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI), 262 beds were set up on Friday for Covid patients. On the first day, nine positive patients were admitted, said officials. Civil Hospital officials said that the decision was taken following the rise in cases, especially in Ahmedabad city area. Dr Shashank Pandya, director of GCRI, said that the facility will have 150 doctors, 150 medical staff, 50 technicians, 50 paramedical staff and 120 helpers. “Two ICUs have 20 beds with ventilators,” he added. “To reduce the burden on hospitals, Covid-19 care centres are being set up and permission is being given for self-isolation at home,” an official said. “The state is also recording a good recovery rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/262-bed-covid-facility-at-gcri/articleshow/75497764.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Railways set to ferry stranded people||CHANDIGARH: Following the nod from Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to run special trains to bring back stranded residents from various states, the Ambala division of Northern Railway has started chalking out plans for Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Ambala divisional railway manager G M Singh said Punjab has already informed about its requirement of trains from four stations — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda. Chandigarh and Haryana are expected to tell them about the status of stranded persons in their areas and their requirements on Saturday, he said. Sources said that the Punjab government has sent communications to Ambala and Ferozepur divisions regarding movement of people during the lockdown. The state has told the railways that those willing to travel outside Punjab have been asked to register themselves through COVA app by May 3. Expecting over a lakh registrations by the given date, Punjab authorities have requested the railways to create facilities at the four railway stations. Some more stations could be added after the registrations are over, they said. An estimated 20,000 migrant labourers stuck in and around Chandigarh want to commute to their native states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. According to the local intelligence unit, which prepares data with the railway officials, migrant labourers waiting to return are located in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Kalka, Baddi, Parwanoo, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Lalru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/railways-set-to-ferry-stranded-people/articleshow/75499303.cms||Aarti Kapur
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Red zone districts in Andhra Pradesh shrink from 11 to 5||VIJAYAWADA: Nearly two weeks after classifying 11 districts of Andhra Pradesh as red zones, the Union health ministry has now moved six districts to orange zones. This has reduced the number of red zone districts in the state to five – Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna, Chittoor and Nellore. During the earlier classification, 11 districts had been declared red zones and two were green zones. Srikakulam, which was earlier designated as green zone, has now been categorized as an orange zone after five cases were reported from the district recently. The number of orange zones in the district is seven— West Godavari, Kadapa, Anantapur, Prakasam, East Godavari, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam. Vizianagaram, which has remained Covid-free for nearly 50 days after the state reported its first case on March 12, is the only district to be demarcated as a green zone. However, the list is dynamic in nature and will be revised on a weekly basis. According to the Union government , the cumulative caseload and the doubling rate were the basis of designating districts as red zones, orange zones and green zones, which was done a fortnight ago. But the current classification is multi-factorial and considers disease incidence, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts. If a particular district does not report any new case for 21 days, it will be considered as a green zone. The Union health ministry has made it clear that states may designate additional red or orange zones based on feedback and additional analysis at the state-level. However, the states may not relax the zonal classification of districts, classified as red or orange as communicated by the Union health ministry Districts with one or more municipal corporations can treat the corporations and other areas of districts as separate units. If one or more of these units have not reported any case for 21 days, they can be considered as one level lower in zonal classification. The major focus of the containment strategy in red and orange zone districts will be on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, areas with well demarcated perimeters and enforceability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/red-zone-districts-in-ap-shrink-from-11-to-5/articleshow/75496286.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi turns all ‘red’ as two orange zones reclassified||NEW DELHI: The number of districts termed “red zones” in Delhi has risen from nine to all 11. This means the entire city is now in the red zone, as the two districts that had the orange tag till Tuesday have been brought under the strictest colour code. Senior officials said the districts were earlier designated red, orange or green based on the cases reported and the doubling rate. North West and South West Delhi had fared better on both counts and had been kept in the orange category. However, under the new system that considers the extent of testing and surveillance feedback in addition to the number of cases and doubling rate, these districts have also become red zones. #Covid_19 | #Delhi Red, Haryana has most of NCR's orange zones#CoronavirusOutbreak #DelhiFightsCorona… https://t.co/2X5VBFOHPT— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1588385473000‘With no herd immunity, sudden easing of curbs can cause spike in cases’Delhi did not have a green or unaffected zone as per the older classification. Under the new classification, none of the districts comes close to being classified green — a district that has had no reported case for 21 consecutive days. The directive issued by the Centre on classifying different districts in the country into different zones also says that districts having one or more municipal corporations – which is the case with Delhi, the corporations and other areas of districts may be treated as separate units. “If one or more of these units have reported no case for 21 days, they can be considered as one level lower in zonal classification, in case the district is in red or orange zone,” states the letter sent by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan to the chief secretary of all states. Dr S K Sarin, chairman of the task force constituted by the Delhi government for Covid-19 management in the state, had suggested last week itself that the lockdown may have to be extended till May 16 to control Covid-19 outbreak. He told TOI that the epidemic curve is expected to start declining after that. “At present, the epidemic curve is on the rise. There is no flattening of the curve and lockdown will help control disease spread, in addition to reducing additional burden on hospitals,” Dr Sarin had said. He had added that stringent measures to contain the disease in the metros is a must to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread from these areas to other parts of the country that have been unaffected by the outbreak as yet. Dr Sarin explained that Delhi recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 3 and mathematical modelling of the epidemic from China suggests that it takes 10 weeks for the curve to decline. The curve of an epidemic is considered to be on the decline when the number of secondary cases generated by one primary case reduces to less than one. “At present, there is no herd immunity and if the lockdown was to be eased suddenly, an infected person could transmit the virus to many others, leading to a sudden spike in cases. We are happy with the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown,” said an official in the public health division of Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-turns-all-red-as-two-orange-zones-reclassified/articleshow/75499310.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Ensure good facilities in quarantine centres: Jagan||Amaravati: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday directed the state administration to ensure good facilities in quarantine centres. At a review meeting held at the camp office on Friday, the chief minister named transport and R&B principal secretary MT Krishnababu as special officer to monitor the facilities in quarantines. The CM asked Krishnababu to be in touch with the inmates over phone and take feedback about facilities including food and sanitation in their respective centres. “Good quality of food should be provided to all the inmates and proper sanitation should be maintained. The situation should be improved immediately,” said the chief minister. TOI in its columns on Friday had reported on the poor quality of food at quarantine facilities in Guntur district. The chief minister directed the officials to ready a plan to handle the people coming from other states. He said the entire administration must be geared up to tackle the large number of people coming home. “We need to have a plan as how and where to screen them and to keep them in quarantine facilities. We should be ready with a plan on how many people would be required to be kept in quarantines and how many should be allowed for home quarantine,” said the chief minister. The officials said all the foreign returnees would come with non-Covid-19 certificate and could be allowed for home quarantine. Similarly, pool samples of all fishermen from Gujarat were taken for testing before sending them home. The officials said that individual screening would be required in case the pooling tests turned positive. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and special CS Jawahar Reddy said the administration will focus on reducing mortalities by segregating high risk patients. They said that they have screened 10,0997 patients which is the highest in the country. They said that they were conducting 1,919 tests per each million and touch 2000 mark in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-good-facilities-in-quarantine-centres-jagan/articleshow/75496342.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Operation Shield: Many zones likely to be de-sealed in Delhi||NEW DELHI: If the number of Covid-19 cases do not see a sudden surge, there will be a drop in the number of containment zones in the capital in the next few days. On Friday, the number of containment zones in Delhi reached 97 — housing about 5.25 lakh population — with no new addition and de-sealing of one such area in east Delhi. According to officials, there are several containment zones in Delhi which have not reported a single Covid-19 case in the last few days and may soon be de-sealed by the district administration. On Friday, the government de-contained Mayurdhwaj apartment in east Delhi after keeping it sealed for 28 days. Previously, Mansara and Vardhman apartments in east Delhi and a block in East of Kailash, southeast distric,t were also de-sealed. “Four weeks after being sealed under Operation SHIELD, Mayurdhwaj apartment in east delhi is being de-contained. Congratulations to the health team and all residents,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. The district administration in Delhi seal a residential block and declare it as a containment zone if there are three Covid-19 cases in the area. In some instances, the areas were sealed based on suspicions. The area remains sealed or contained for 28 days if no fresh case is reported there. Following orders from lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the government decided to call containment areas as red zones and downscale it to orange and then green if no new case is reported for 21 and 28 days respectively. However, from the point of giving relaxation in lockdown, these areas will be considered as red, orange or green zones depending on the total number of cases in the respective districts. All 11 districts in the capital on Friday were categorised as red zones and the normal restrictions will continue. Baijal, on Friday, directed all stakeholders for scaling up their efforts to rein in the pandemic and advised field officials to delineate containment zones properly to ensure their effective management. He also advised narrowing down of containment zones into micro-containment zones for effective management and develop an action plan to convert red zones to orange to green. In the next few days, neighbourhoods such as Hauz Rani in south Delhi, Model Town’s Police Colony in north and Gali no 9 Pandav Nagar in east may also be de-sealed with no new cases in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/op-shield-many-zones-likely-to-be-de-sealed/articleshow/75497861.cms||Atul Mathur
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Braving pandemic, village volunteers distribute pension||Amaravati: Braving the Covid-19 pandemic, around two lakh volunteers village and ward volunteers across the state disbursed welfare pensions to beneficiaries on Friday. The disbursement of pensions at home has provided a big relief to the elderly and the physically challenged during the lockdown. Village and ward volunteers disbursed pensions to about 85 per cent people by 10 am. This is the second month the volunteers have handed over pensions to the beneficiaries during the lockdown. “About 52 lakh beneficiaries received the pension by 3pm. This is nearly 92% of the total 58.22 lakh eligible beneficiaries,” said Gopalakrishna Dwivedi, rural development and panchayathraj principal secretary. The state government is spending close to Rs 1,421.20 crore towards the initiative. To prevent the virus spread, the volunteers have used photo identification method instead of biometric system and a separate app was used to capture the beneficiary picture through geo-tagging. The volunteers have taken strict measures while distributing pensions. “This is the result of our chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s commitment to deliver all the welfare schemes at the door-steps of the poor,” said Dendulur legislator Abbaiah Chowdary. The government has promised that the pensions would be disbursed next month if anyone could not receive it due to being stranded outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/braving-pandemic-village-volunteers-distribute-pension/articleshow/75496380.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP will slap Rs 1,000 penalty on citizens for not wearing masks||BENGALURU: Citizens not wearing masks in public and workplaces with more than five people will have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. Announcing that wearing of masks is mandatory in the city, BBMP on Friday said second-time offenders will have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000. It has also made it mandatory that gloves and masks used in households and commercial establishments should be handed over to waste collectors in covers or sealed bags as part of sanitary waste. The citizens have been barred from spitting, urinating and littering in public spaces. All violations entail the same fine as that for not wearing the masks. The order takes immediate effect, BBMP said. Palike chief BH Anil Kumar said, “It’s not to make revenue from fines. The objective is to make sure people maintain hygiene. This is for the benefit of the public.” BBMP ward marshals, health inspectors and police have the authority to levy fines on the public. Randeep D, special commissioner (SWM), BBMP, said, “The fine is high to make sure people wear the masks. Citizens can wear any mask as long it covers face and mouth. We are looking at this not just as a public nuisance but also as a health hazard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-will-slap-rs-1000-penalty-on-citizens-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75499323.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh completes 1 lakh tests, highest in country||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has carried out nearly 12% of the total tests conducted in the country even though its population constitutes less than 4% of the nation, said KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (health, medical and family welfare). Speaking to the media on Friday, Reddy said the state has crossed an important milestone by screening more than 1 lakh people. “While the total tests conducted in the country are only about 9 lakh, Andhra Pradesh tested 1.02 lakh people as of Friday morning,” said Reddy. “Apart from the existing nine labs in the eight districts, two more labs in Srikakulam and Prakasam districts have got the approval of JIPMER, Puducherry. Trial testing has already begun at these two labs. Works on the Nellore lab have been completed. Civil works have started for two more labs coming up in West Godavari and Vizianagaram districts,” he said. Jawahar Reddy further said, “Meanwhile, the two HIV viral load testing labs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada will be exclusively used for testing Covid samples. Three CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machines have got the required approvals to test Covid samples. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in association with SVIMS, Tirupati, will develop a mobile laboratory at an estimated cost of Rs 1 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-completes-1-lakh-tests-highest-in-country/articleshow/75496392.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Please stay back, says BS Yediyurappa as workers pack up bags to leave Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With lakhs of stranded migrant workers set to return home, Bengaluru is staring at a labour exodus, prompting chief minister BS Yediyurappa to appeal to them not to leave the city. Home to about 8 lakh migrants (excluding IT/ ITeS sector), Bengaluru depends on them to keep its economy going. Contractors, builders, trade unions and activists TOI spoke with said 45%-50% of them may go back to their villages, and this could impact the city’s economic recovery. Yediyurappa said on Friday: “We intend to resume economic activities soon. We have appealed to the employers to protect workers’ interest and pay their salaries. It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back in the state and co-operate with us to resume the economic activities once we receive directions from the Union government.” Sathya Mukund of AITUC said many migrants want to leave as there is not enough incentive to stay back and depending on charity (staying in shelter homes) affects their dignity. “They are poor, but won’t accept free food. The present relaxation (work at in-situ sites) spells a lot of uncertainty, and workers believe it may be better to return to the villages where they feel safer,” Mukund said. ‘Many labourers will return’Chaluve Gowda, director, Hombale Constructions, which has nearly 1,800 workers in 12 sites across the city, said many of them have requested for arrangements to be made to return home. His firm would give a list of such migrants to the labour officials before early Saturday. Roshin Mathew, executive director and president (engineering), Brigade Group, said: “In our colonies, about 50% of them have decided to stay back since we’ve been paying salaries and taking care of them. Yet, many of them want to leave. This will be a short-term problem and they will eventually return to the cities to work.” A regional manager of a pan-India construction firm, echoing Mukund’s views, said economic incentives are not sufficient for many of them to stay back given that not all activity will resume immediately. “Agricultural activity was allowed by the Centre much earlier. A lot of migrants see better opportunities in rural India and they get a chance to stay closer to their families amid concerns and stigmatisation of Covid-19,” Mukund added. This is true for intrastate migrants since Karnataka will begin sowing paddy, ragi and other kharif crops beginning May. In states like Bihar, Jharkhand and other northern states, the sowing will begin by the end of May and early June. “One should take into account that construction activity reduces in monsoon. They may be right in believing they have better prospects back home,” the regional manager added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/please-stay-back-says-bs-yediyurappa-as-workers-pack-up-bags-to-leave-bengaluru/articleshow/75499302.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 2, 2020||World||Biden declares sexual assault 'never, never happened'||WASHINGTON: Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Friday emphatically denied allegations from a former Senate staffer that he sexually assaulted her in the early 1990s, declaring flatly that ``this never happened.'' Biden's first public remarks on the accusation by a former employee, Tara Reade, come at a critical moment for the presumptive Democratic nominee as he tries to relieve mounting pressure after weeks of leaving denials to his campaign. ``I'm saying unequivocally, it never, never happened,'' the former vice president and senator said in an interview on MSNBC's ``Morning Joe.'' Biden said he will ask the National Archives to determine whether there is any record of a complaint being filed, as Reade has claimed. Later Friday, Biden asked the secretary of the Senate via letter to assist in the search, though he told MSNBC that the Archives was the only possible place a complaint would be. He said his Senate papers held under seal at the University of Delaware do not contain personnel records. ``The former staffer has said she filed a complaint back in 1993,'' Biden said. ``But she does not have a record of this alleged complaint.'' Reade did not immediately respond to a request for comment Friday. The Archives deflected inquiries to Capitol Hill, saying any complaint ``would have remained under the control of the Senate.'' A spokeswoman for the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights said confidentiality rules bar the office from commenting on ``whether specific claims may or may not have been filed.'' Biden, in his TV interview, said "there are so many inconsistencies'' in Reade's various accounts. But he said he does not ``question her motive.'' He said over his five decades in public life, none of his employees was asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement. Republicans worried about President Donald Trump's increasingly precarious political standing are casting Democrats as only defending women who allege wrongdoing against conservatives. They're digging in despite the possibility of renewed attention on the multiple sexual assault allegations lodged against Trump, who denies the accusations. In light of his own situation, Trump is stepping delicately around the Biden controversy. ``He's going to have to make his own decision,'' Trump said in a podcast interview Friday with Dan Bongino. ``I'm not going to be telling him what to do.'' The president added that it would be a ``great thing'' if Biden had records that could ``dispose'' of Reade's allegation. Democrats, meanwhile, are in an awkward position of validating women who come forward with their stories while defending their standard-bearer ahead of an expected competitive election. Former Democratic Party chairwoman Donna Brazile said before Biden's interview that his silence was ``damaging,'' but afterward said he handled the matter well. ``He responded, he denied it, and there's nothing more to be added,'' Brazile said, before alluding to Reade's repeated public statements. ``If you add to the story the way Tara Reade has, it only brings more confusion.'' Karen Finney, who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016, described Biden as ``very clear and consistent'' and ``sincere,'' but said it should have come ``a little bit sooner.'' The November presidential election will be the first of the (hash)MeToo era, during which numerous women have publicly disclosed experiences of sexual harassment and assault. Women are a core constituency for Democrats. Biden wrote the Violence Against Women Act as a senator but came under criticism for his handling of Anita Hill's 1991 Senate testimony against now-Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Just before he launched his 2020 campaign, Biden apologized after several women said he'd made them uncomfortable with unwanted touching. He has pledged to pick a woman as a running mate, and the Reade allegation has left those thought to be in contention in a tough spot. Some of them have echoed talking points the Biden campaign issued to surrogates last week that were obtained by The Associated Press. The campaign pointed to investigations by The New York Times, The Washington Post and the AP that found no other allegation of sexual assault against Biden and no pattern of sexual misconduct. Some Democratic donors say the matter hasn't come up in recent strategy calls. Others worry it'll be used against Biden, much as Republicans harped in 2016 on Clinton's private email server and Clinton Foundation activities. ``We know they're going to try elements of the same playbook,'' said Finney, pointing to calls for Biden to release his Senate papers. Other Democratic operatives expressed concern the allegation complicates a central Biden pitch: that he provides a moral counter to Trump. ``I think we have to apply a consistent standard for how we treat allegations of sexual assault, and also be clear-eyed about how Donald Trump will use these allegations,'' said Claire Sandberg, who worked as Bernie Sanders' organizing director. Republicans have seized on the prospects of scouring Biden's records, showing aggressiveness that was harder for them four years ago while Trump was having to deny varying levels of sexual assault and harassment. Trump joined fellow Republicans in arguing Friday that Democrats aren't being consistent, pointing again to the aggressive questioning of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh when he faced a sexual assault allegation. Biden pushed back on those notions Friday during the interview and, later, during a virtual campaign fundraiser. He told 2,200 donors, many of them veterans of the Obama administration, that his position has always been to take women's claims seriously. ``It isn't enough just to simply take my word for it and dismiss it out of hand,'' he said, because ``that sort of approach is how the culture of abuse has been allowed to fester for so long.'' Trump's reelection campaign quickly released a digital ad featuring prominent Democrats, including Biden and Clinton, saying, ``Believe women'' and similar sentiments. ``Ladies and gentleman, we just can't have it both ways,'' White House counselor Kellyanne Conway said. ``We cannot decide which women were included in 'believe all women.''' Hill, long critical of how Biden handled her accusations against Thomas, issued a statement highlighting the complexities across the political spectrum. Noting Reade, Kavanaugh's accuser, Christine Blasey Ford, and Trump's many accusers, Hill called for an investigation of ``outstanding claims of sexual misconduct'' against Trump and Biden, warning that otherwise ``the public is left to figure out the truth on its own.'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-declares-sexual-assault-never-never-happened/articleshow/75499332.cms||---
May 2, 2020||World||Biden declares sexual assault 'never, never happened'||WASHINGTON: Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Friday emphatically denied allegations from a former Senate staffer that he sexually assaulted her in the early 1990s, declaring flatly that ``this never happened.'' Biden's first public remarks on the accusation by a former employee, Tara Reade, come at a critical moment for the presumptive Democratic nominee as he tries to relieve mounting pressure after weeks of leaving denials to his campaign. ``I'm saying unequivocally, it never, never happened,'' the former vice president and senator said in an interview on MSNBC's ``Morning Joe.'' Biden said he will ask the National Archives to determine whether there is any record of a complaint being filed, as Reade has claimed. Later Friday, Biden asked the secretary of the Senate via letter to assist in the search, though he told MSNBC that the Archives was the only possible place a complaint would be. He said his Senate papers held under seal at the University of Delaware do not contain personnel records. ``The former staffer has said she filed a complaint back in 1993,'' Biden said. ``But she does not have a record of this alleged complaint.'' Reade did not immediately respond to a request for comment Friday. The Archives deflected inquiries to Capitol Hill, saying any complaint ``would have remained under the control of the Senate.'' A spokeswoman for the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights said confidentiality rules bar the office from commenting on ``whether specific claims may or may not have been filed.'' Biden, in his TV interview, said "there are so many inconsistencies'' in Reade's various accounts. But he said he does not ``question her motive.'' He said over his five decades in public life, none of his employees was asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement. Republicans worried about President Donald Trump's increasingly precarious political standing are casting Democrats as only defending women who allege wrongdoing against conservatives. They're digging in despite the possibility of renewed attention on the multiple sexual assault allegations lodged against Trump, who denies the accusations. In light of his own situation, Trump is stepping delicately around the Biden controversy. ``He's going to have to make his own decision,'' Trump said in a podcast interview Friday with Dan Bongino. ``I'm not going to be telling him what to do.'' The president added that it would be a ``great thing'' if Biden had records that could ``dispose'' of Reade's allegation. Democrats, meanwhile, are in an awkward position of validating women who come forward with their stories while defending their standard-bearer ahead of an expected competitive election. Former Democratic Party chairwoman Donna Brazile said before Biden's interview that his silence was ``damaging,'' but afterward said he handled the matter well. ``He responded, he denied it, and there's nothing more to be added,'' Brazile said, before alluding to Reade's repeated public statements. ``If you add to the story the way Tara Reade has, it only brings more confusion.'' Karen Finney, who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016, described Biden as ``very clear and consistent'' and ``sincere,'' but said it should have come ``a little bit sooner.'' The November presidential election will be the first of the (hash)MeToo era, during which numerous women have publicly disclosed experiences of sexual harassment and assault. Women are a core constituency for Democrats. Biden wrote the Violence Against Women Act as a senator but came under criticism for his handling of Anita Hill's 1991 Senate testimony against now-Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Just before he launched his 2020 campaign, Biden apologized after several women said he'd made them uncomfortable with unwanted touching. He has pledged to pick a woman as a running mate, and the Reade allegation has left those thought to be in contention in a tough spot. Some of them have echoed talking points the Biden campaign issued to surrogates last week that were obtained by The Associated Press. The campaign pointed to investigations by The New York Times, The Washington Post and the AP that found no other allegation of sexual assault against Biden and no pattern of sexual misconduct. Some Democratic donors say the matter hasn't come up in recent strategy calls. Others worry it'll be used against Biden, much as Republicans harped in 2016 on Clinton's private email server and Clinton Foundation activities. ``We know they're going to try elements of the same playbook,'' said Finney, pointing to calls for Biden to release his Senate papers. Other Democratic operatives expressed concern the allegation complicates a central Biden pitch: that he provides a moral counter to Trump. ``I think we have to apply a consistent standard for how we treat allegations of sexual assault, and also be clear-eyed about how Donald Trump will use these allegations,'' said Claire Sandberg, who worked as Bernie Sanders' organizing director. Republicans have seized on the prospects of scouring Biden's records, showing aggressiveness that was harder for them four years ago while Trump was having to deny varying levels of sexual assault and harassment. Trump joined fellow Republicans in arguing Friday that Democrats aren't being consistent, pointing again to the aggressive questioning of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh when he faced a sexual assault allegation. Biden pushed back on those notions Friday during the interview and, later, during a virtual campaign fundraiser. He told 2,200 donors, many of them veterans of the Obama administration, that his position has always been to take women's claims seriously. ``It isn't enough just to simply take my word for it and dismiss it out of hand,'' he said, because ``that sort of approach is how the culture of abuse has been allowed to fester for so long.'' Trump's reelection campaign quickly released a digital ad featuring prominent Democrats, including Biden and Clinton, saying, ``Believe women'' and similar sentiments. ``Ladies and gentleman, we just can't have it both ways,'' White House counselor Kellyanne Conway said. ``We cannot decide which women were included in 'believe all women.''' Hill, long critical of how Biden handled her accusations against Thomas, issued a statement highlighting the complexities across the political spectrum. Noting Reade, Kavanaugh's accuser, Christine Blasey Ford, and Trump's many accusers, Hill called for an investigation of ``outstanding claims of sexual misconduct'' against Trump and Biden, warning that otherwise ``the public is left to figure out the truth on its own.'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-declares-sexual-assault-never-never-happened/articleshow/75499309.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: RESQ, Grasslands Trust provide food to workers and animals in lockdown||PUNE: City-based RESQ Charitable Trust and The Grasslands Trust have distributed over 4,200 kgs of human food ration and 250 kgs animal feed to about 75 families of the local grassland communities as well as daily wage workers and their animals, which were stranded in Jejuri, Morgaon, Kadus and Vadgaon in Pune district during lockdown. "They had not received any wages or government compensation, and had no means to procure food as the lockdown imposed restrictions did not allow them to move for it," said Neha Panchamiya, founder and president, RESQ Charitable Trust. The Grassland Trust, an NGO that works towards the conservation of wildlife found in grassland and scrubland habitats, regularly comes across these families in the course of their work. Members of The Grassland Trust, Pratik Joshi and Mihir Godbole had reached out to Panchamiya at the RESQ Charitable, who collaborated on this effort to assess the need, procure food and transport it for the humans and animals who needed it. The RESQ Charitable Trust has been working in Pune since 2007 towards reducing human-animal conflict through their rescue, rehabilitation, education and awareness activities for domestic animals and wildlife. Through the COVID-19 lockdown, RESQ has provided aid for thousands of animals of all kinds through their relief efforts. Around 300 people and 45 animals were fed for one-month during this activity. “We had already distributed over 33 tonnes of food for animals since the lockdown - for dogs, horses, cattle through a network of over 300 volunteers and feeders across Pune, PCMC, Lonavala and Matheran. When I heard about these families and their animals, I wanted to help them because they were stranded in such places which were completely out the view of city-folk and where no kind of relief, government or otherwise, had reached," said Panchamiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-resq-grasslands-trust-provide-food-to-workers-and-animals-in-lockdown/articleshow/75499322.cms||Neha Madaan
May 2, 2020||Amaravati||Pharma sector bets on high turnover despite lockdown||AMARAVATI: In an interesting development, Indian pharma industry (IPM), which ended 2019 with 1.48 lakh crore turnover at 9.5 % growth, is likely to continue high volume sales despite the lockdown. A study by Hindu College of Management, Guntur, found that the pharma industry is not losing anything due to the lockdown. People suffering from cardiac, diabetes, hypertension, kidney, thyroid and gastritis ailments have purchased two months’ medicines in advance due to uncertainty over Covid-19 lockdown. “Although, the pharmacies attached to the hospitals have not reported sales due to the lockdown, the pharma firms had motivated doctors to encourage patients to purchase drugs outside their hospitals,” said SVS Lakshminarayana, former CEO of a pharmaceutical firm. The study found that market leaders had tried their best to be in touch with the patients through different platforms including social media, toll-free call centres to see that they do not miss a single dose of drug. “USV (I) Ltd, one of the leaders in cardiac and diabetic segment, launched a helpline and provided information about the availability of their stocks at the nearest retailer. They also opened separate windows to reach out to the retailers and supplied stocks in time,” said Dr SV Ramana, principal of Hindu College of Management, who led the team that conducted the study. Ramana said that Dr.Reddy’s, the leader in gastro-entreology, has developed a helpline for medical retailers to solve availability problem. IPCA, a major manufacturer and exporter of chloroquine phosphate, too has reached out to its retailers via app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/pharma-sector-bets-on-high-turnover-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75496420.cms||Samdani MN
May 2, 2020||Delhi||‘Won’t return to Delhi once I reach home’||NEW DELHI: For 47-year-old Asha Devi, who sold tea in Preet Vihar and earned four times what she did in her village in Bihar, the shift to Delhi was almost a dream come true. Until the lockdown burst the bubble. Today, she frets about the need to return to Purnea, having spent the past month in an undignified existence at the Yamuna Sports Complex shelter for migrant workers with her large family: a brother, two daughters, six children, a pregnant sister and a brother-in-law. “I won’t return to Delhi once I reach home. I don’t care about the extra money,” said the woman, who has been separated from her youngest sons, aged 6 and 7, all this while. Missing migrants may stall economic rebirthThe 40 lakh migrant workers in the city, like Devi, are desperate to be back in their home villages. And worryingly, the assertions of the distressed people never ever to return to the city worries experts about how an economic revival can be achieved without them. Delhi government made arrangements for their stay and fooding, but the migrants have been chafing to return home to the security afforded by familiarity. Their relief at the Centre announcing special provisions for their transport home cannot be imagined. Hemesh Kumar, who works in a garment factory in Jahangirpuri, decided against joining a group that was planning to walk all the way to Bihar. “Yes, I was desperate but I have two little daughters,” he said. “So, I didn’t resist when I was brought to the workers’ shelter home. But if the government facilitates our return, I will go home never to travel back to Delhi, at least not in the near future.” Maheshridi, who came to Delhi from UP, echoed the sentiment. “I don’t care what I earned here. I can get a job elsewhere too I just want to rejoin my family stuck in our village,” said the plumber who earned around Rs 6,000 every month in northeast Delhi. “We did set out for home in March but police stopped us brought to the shelter home.” Like many others, he said he earned more money sewing suits in the capital then he could have in Bihar, but the “calmness that my hometown offers goes way beyond everything”. He is in such financial straits that he has no money for a phone recharge and so resorts to giving missed calls to relatives hoping they will call back. “Better late than never, I am ready to leave," Kumar declared. At the government shelter, Kumar sleeps next to Vishal. As he slipped out a photo from under his pillow, Vishal said, “I have lived alone in Delhi for two years and I suffer from depression. My family kept calling me back home but I thought I could manage things until health deteriorated to such an extent I decided to go back,” he said. But then came the lockdown. “The Rs 6,000 I made as a construction worker will never give me the peace that I will get from being with my family,” Vishal said earnestly. We would rather be with our families than work here, agreed Deepak and his brothers. They were making do with life in the open underneath the Akshardham flyover till last month before they were relocated to a shelter home. “I worked in a tile factory in outer Delhi. The three of us came to Delhi from Bihar, but I now realise how comfortable it is to be with the family,” said Deepak. The thought of trying to go home daunted many. Neelam and her husband, who migrated from UP’s Banda district, earned Rs 4,000 as labourers in Nangloi. This Sanjay Sekhri wasn’t enough for their needs, but they stayed on in Delhi. The lockdown made them realise how precarious their existence was. “We will work in our field in the village. When things normalise, we may still think of returning,” said Neelam.-Migrants frightened by the lockdown and wishing not to return to the cities could hamper economic revival. “If construction work resumes after the lockdown is lifted, what would be the point of it all if there are no labourers?” asked builder Gitanshu Lalwani. “Of course, I understand they have their concerns, but I hope some solution is found for this problem.” An official of the Public Works Department was similarly worried and cited several construction projects that were languishing. “Like everyone else, the migrant works deserve the comfort of their families. It is important to let them go, and yet if they don’t return whenever construction activities resume, we will have huge losses and unmet deadlines on our hands,” the official said. A few migrants, however, prefer staying on in Delhi. “My contractor gives me a place to stay and three meals per day. He is making sure that all needs of my family and me are met, so why go back?” asked Nandan Singh. Another worker said he would rather stay in Delhi and earn more money working double shift to compensate for the losses of the past two months. “Since everyone is gone, it automatically means the workload of those staying behind will increase. But this also means we will be paid for overtime. I think this is my only chance to make extra money,” said construction worker Keshav. (With inputs from Sakshi Chand)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wont-return-to-delhi-once-i-reach-home/articleshow/75499325.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSCHE to coordinate GATE online coaching||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education will coordinate online coaching classes for GATE aspirants. Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Anantapur (JNTU-A), Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada (JNTU-K) and Yogi Vemana University, Kadapa will jointly conduct the programme. The registrations will commence on May 2 and end on May 7. The classes will start on May 11. The interested students can register for the online GATE coaching classes on the web portal: www.jntua.ac.in/gate-online-classes/registration. They can download the list of the subjects and the subject wise list of the faculty members from the web portal:www.jntua.ac.in/gate-online-classes/list-of-faculty. The online platform for conducting classes will be informed by e-mail to the respective faculty members and students. Students can register for any number of courses listed in the web portal. The schedule of classes will be sent by the coordinators to the students by email. Eminent and experienced faculty members from the universities will conduct the online sessions. Each subject will be taught in 12 sessions in 12 days. The duration of each session is two hours. Two subjects per day will be taught online by two different faculty members. Online attendance will be recorded by the respective faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apsche-to-coordinate-gate-online-coaching/articleshow/75496443.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh government brings back fishermen stranded in Gujarat||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a humanitarian gesture, the Andhra Pradesh government has rescued 11 fishermen from Odisha, along with 4,054 fishermen from the state, who were stranded in Gujarat since the lockdown was imposed. The 4,065 fishermen accompanied by the president of Srikakulam district fisheries society, reached Vijayawada on Friday morning. From there, the fishermen headed towards their own districts where they will be kept in quarantine facilities. The 11 fishermen from Odisha have been kept at a government-run quarantine facility in Srikakulam. They will be handed over to the Odisha government either post-lockdown or after 21 days in quarantine. 37 more fishermen from Odisha are already at that quarantine centre. They were rescued earlier and brought to AP by sea. Speaking to TOI, state fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkararamana said, “Migrant fishermen from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha work together in different states across the country. At this hour of crisis, when we decided to rescue fishermen from our state, we also took the responsibility of the fishermen from Odisha.” “The chief minister has sanctioned Rs 3 crore to bring back stranded fishermen. We can take care of the fishermen from Odisha with a part of that sum,” said Mopidevi who greeted the fishermen upon arrival in Vijayawada on Friday. Meanwhile, fishery associations in Odisha have expressed gratitude at the Andhra Pradesh government’s move. Konda Alleya, general secretary of Odisha Traditional Fish Workers’ Union said, “Since only a few fishermen from Odisha got stranded in Gujarat, the government was not finding a feasible option to bring them back. We thank the Andhra Pradesh government for this endeavour.” On March 23 TOI reported that these fishermen, stranded at Veraval Port in Gujarat, were spending their days in misery with 12 men staying cooped in small cabins in boats. The fishermen had informed TOI that they wished to come back to AP and stay in quarantine if necessary. Arjili Dasu, the activist monitoring the evacuation plan said, “These fishermen had paid Rs 3,000 each to board the buses, which they had taken as loan from the boat owners. The government will now settle the amount from the allotted fund.” He added that 5,300 more fishermen are stranded in Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-brings-back-fishermen-stranded-in-guj/articleshow/75496497.cms||Arpit Basu
May 2, 2020||World||China 'mishandled' coronavirus outbreak: White House||WASHINGTON: The White House on Friday said China "mishandled the situation" after the coronavirus outbreak in its Wuhan city, but refrained from giving a definitive answer on retaliatory measures against the Asian giant. The deadly coronavirus that was first reported in China's Wuhan city in mid-November has so far killed more than 2,35,000 people globally, including 64,000 Americans, and has infected 3.3 million across the world. Led by the United States, several countries, including Germany, Britain and Australian, are blaming China for the spread of coronavirus across the globe. On Thursday, President Donald Trump had hinted at using tariff as a tool to punish China for mishandling the virus outbreak and the next day the markets went down. “The markets are down substantially today after the President yesterday suggested in the East Room that he might use tariffs to punish China over the coronavirus. Is there any serious consideration being given to putting new tariffs on China or was the President just spitballing yesterday?” the new White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany was asked during her maiden press conference. "I won't get ahead of any announcements from the President, but I will echo the President's displeasure with China. It's no secret that China mishandled this situation," McEnany told reporters. "Just a few examples for you; they did not share the genetic sequence until a professor in Shanghai did so on his own. The very next day China shut down his lab for quote rectification. They slow-walked information on human to human transmission alongside the World Health Organization and didn't let US investigators in at a very important time," she said. "So, we take displeasure with China's actions, but I certainly won't get out of the president with those announcements. Again, when it comes to retaliatory measures, I will not get ahead of the president on that," McEnany asserted. The White House Press Secretary said the US continues to have very limited and dubious data from China and the current assessments indicated that Trump's statement, that coronavirus came from a lab in Wuhan, is consistent with what some analysts believe is the epicenter of where the virus began. On Thursday, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) had said in a statement that the Intelligence Community concurs with the wide scientific consensus that "the COVID-19 virus was not manmade or genetically modified". Responding to a question on the ODNI's statement, McEnany said “Let me remind everyone intelligence is just an estimate essentially, and it's up to policymakers to decide what to do with that intelligence. In this case, the policymaker is the President of the United States and he will make a decision at the right time.” She alleged that there's no secret that China stopped US investigators from coming in. “It was of paramount importance that we got into China in an expedited fashion, and that didn't happen. With respect to the World Health Organization, they have some questions of their own to answer,” the press secretary said. She said the United States, as the president has emphasized, provides about USD 400 million to USD 500 million per year to the WHO compared to China at roughly USD 40 million a year, but yet "WHO appears to have a very clear China bias”. “I mean, look at this timeline and it's really damning for the WHO when you just consider the fact that on December 31, you had Taiwanese officials warning about human to human transmission and the WHO did not make that public. On January 9 the WHO repeated China's claim that the virus 'does not transmit readily between people'. That was quite apparently false,” McEnany said. “On January 14, the WHO again repeated China's talking points about no human to human transmission. They praised China's leadership on 22 January. On the 23rd, they said, and this is incredible, the pandemic didn't represent a public health emergency of international concern,” she said. “And even on February 29, you had the WHO saying that when the coronavirus was spreading around the world, they chose to put, excuse me, political correctness first by opposing lifesaving travel restrictions." "The travel restrictions this president put in place, the travel restrictions that Dr. Fauci praised as saving lives and you have the World Health Organization opposing a measure that saved American lives. That's unacceptable, especially at a time when the US was providing USD 400 to 500 million,” the White House Press Secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/china-mishandled-coronavirus-outbreak-white-house/articleshow/75499344.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||BMC calls in 100% staffers, will put them up in starred hotels in Mumbai||MUMBAI: BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi has asked all ward officers to convince star hotels and lodges in their jurisdiction to house civic employees involved in essential services. Many such employees travel to work from faraway areas of neighbouring districts. Earlier, the Taj group had offered its five-star hotels to house BMC staff involved in Covid-19-related work. But since BMC wanted the services for many more days, they decided to pay the group Rs 2,000 as charges per day per room shared by two persons; the charges included food and laundry services. Many other hotels came forward to help the BMC. On Friday, Pardeshi issued an order asking ward officers to talk to hotels and fixed charges for employees’ stay at such hotels: Rs 2,000 per day for fivestar hotels, Rs 1,500 for 4-star hotels, Rs 1,000 for 3-star hotels and Rs 500 for non-star ones. The civic body has also called for 100% attendance of staff. With the rising number of Covid-19 patients, BMC in a circular stated it has become essential for tracing of highand low-risk contacts to be strengthened and for quarantine centres to be efficiently managed. BMC will provide accommodation to those who come from far off areas and who face difficulty in transportation. This order is for those working in the non-essential services category, who were so far allowed to work with 50% capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-calls-in-100-staffers-will-put-them-up-in-starred-hotels-in-mumbai/articleshow/75499354.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75498067.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499319.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Nagpur||Barring final year, govt cancels all univ exams in state||Nagpur: The state government on Friday decided to cancel all examinations, except final year/semester, in universities across Maharashtra and promote students to next class. “The students of graduation and postgraduation would be promoted on the basis of average marks obtained in previous years/semesters along with internal assessment of this year/semester. There will be 50% weightage to performance in previous exams and 50% for this year/semester internal assessment,” higher education minister Uday Samant told TOI. He added even failed students would be promoted but the respective universities would have to conduct their examinations within 120 days from start of new academic year. “We have taken the decision as per UGC guidelines. It would be applicable to all 13 non-agriculture universities governed by the state and private ones. The apex body recommended holding exams in July and commencing new academic year from September 1.” Samant said the universities would conduct the final year/semester exams at their level. “We will also be offering marks improvement scheme for the students who wish to better their score but it would be purely optional. These exams would be conducted probably in December or January. Even the viva-voce and practical could be conducted online if possible or the students would be given average marks, based on previous performance and journals submitted.” The minister informed the decision was taken on recommendation of panel comprising four vice-chancellors constituted for suggesting measures to hold the exams in this crisis. “I had also discussed the conditions with chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar,” he said. Hailing the decision, Amravati and Nagpur universities VC Murlidhar Chandekar said no other option was available to the government. “We have been told to conduct final year exams where 50% marks would be on theory and 50% on previous performance. But a final decision would be taken depending on emerging condition. The government would be conducting a review in mid-June,” he told TOI. The students’ community offered a mixed reaction. “The bright students are disappointed thinking they lost a chance to score good marks. On the other hand, average students are happy that they don’t have to study,” DNC student Ankita More said. The undergraduate common entrance test (MHT-CET) for engineering, pharmacy, architecture and hotel management will be held between July 1 and 12 and post graduate entrance test will be held in second half of July, as per government officials. # Major decisions: * All exams, except final year/semester, are cancelled in all universities * All students to be promoted to next academic year/semester * Marks to be given on previous performance and this year/semester internal assessment * Students have option of appearing in improvement exam to better their score * Failing students also to be promoted but need to appear in exams within 120 days * Final year/semester exams to be held in July, new academic session from September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/barring-final-year-govt-cancels-all-univ-exams-in-state/articleshow/75636930.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 2, 2020||Salem||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499321.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Puducherry||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499316.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499317.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Erode||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499318.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Centre puts Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu project on hold over NGO complaint||CHENNAI: The Centre has put the state government’s Rs 2,000-crore project for laying optic fibre network across Tamil Nadu on hold after complaints from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam on irregularities in the project tender. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), which falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in a communication dated April 30 to TN chief secretary has asked for a report on the complaint filed by the NGO. The agency has asked the state to examine the grievance and not to finalise procurement till the issue is addressed by a competent authority. The state government, through the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, had floated a tender for BharatNet. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, had complained that vide a corrigendum in mid-April, the state government had tweaked the tender condition which restricted competition. According to Jayaram, the changes made by the government to increase tender conditions on turnover and experience would make only a few big companies eligible. State’s IT minister rejects allegation of irregularitiesThe NGO had sent complaints to chief minister, chief secretary, department of telecommunications, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, central vigilance commission and the competition commission of India. Tamil Nadu IT minister RB Udhayakumar, however, had rejected the allegations. The DPIIT in its letter said, ‘All the procurement agencies are required to certify compliance of its orders before uploading tenders and that disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in malafide fashion.’ Jayaram demanded that the CM, chief secretary and dept of telecommunications cancel the corrigendum which, according to him, is unfair, irrational, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and initiate action against officials responsible for this. Retired IAS official MG Devasahayam said he was closely following the issue and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major TN-based company which the state had penalised in another issue. “It’s a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19, ” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the TN Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/centre-puts-rs-2000-crore-tn-project-on-hold-over-ngo-plaint/articleshow/75499320.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Liquor sales in green zone soon; Karnataka to allow vehicles in phases||BENGALURU: The ongoing lockdown is set to continue in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru districts, while there will be considerable relief for people and relaxations for services in the lower-risk districts falling in the green and orange zones in the state. With the Centre’s guidelines in place, the BSY government plans to allow liquor outlets to open in the green zones after May 3. Vehicular movement will be allowed in all three zones in a regulated manner. While there are plans to allow four-wheelers and two-wheelers, with a specified number of riders/occupants, vehicular movement for nonessential purposes will remain prohibited between 7pm and 7am. Taxis can ply with two passengersPrivate offices can operate with up to 33% of their strength. Industrial establishments in urban areas, including SEZs, export-oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships with access controls have been permitted. Irrespective of the zone, malls and shopping complexes and travel by air, rail, metro and inter-state movement remains barred. In red zones, the new guidelines allow the movement of individuals and vehicles only for permitted activities, with a maximum of two people (besides the driver) in four-wheelers, and with no pillion rider on two-wheelers. In orange and green zones, in addition to activities permitted in red zones, taxis and cab aggregators will be permitted to ply, with one driver and two passengers. Interdistrict movement of individuals and vehicles will be allowed only for permitted activities. In the green zones, in addition to activities permitted in red and orange ones, buses can operate with up to 50% seating capacity and bus depots can operate with up to 50% capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/liquor-sales-in-green-zone-soon-karnataka-to-allow-vehicles-in-phases/articleshow/75499301.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Three villagers injured in tiger attacks in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Three people were injured and two brothers had a narrow escape when an adult tiger attacked them on the towpath of Jara canal in Jari village, under Gajraula police station, on Friday morning. The spot is at around 1 km from Mala forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. The tiger also attempted to attack a forest department team that arrived to push it back into the wild. District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, ASP Rohit Mishra, field director of PTR H. Rajamohan and deputy director Naveen Khandelwal rushed to the spot along with police and the field forest force to take stock of the situation. According to the victims, the tiger first attacked two brothers -- Gurpreet Singh and Hardeep Singh of village Jari -- when they were on way to their agricultural field on their motorcycle. They had a close shave but managed to flee by accelerating their bike. The next minute, the tiger pounced at Ram Bahadur, a cyclist, and injured him. The big cat left him as it was distracted by the noise of the bike’s engine and horn blown by the two brothers. Within 10 minutes, the tiger pounced on two commuters, Ujagar Singh and his aide Lalta Prasad, of Lalpur village. They sustained serious claw injuries on their heads and shoulders. As they started to scream and brandish the rod they were carrying, the tiger abandoned them and disappeared into the nearby shrubs. Khandelwal said the tiger charged at the forest staff when they tried to push it back towards the jungle. “The operation was suspended on Friday afternoon and will be resumed depending upon the suitability of the ground conditions as we don’t want to tranquilize the tiger. For the safety and security of villagers, the forest teams will keep monitoring the big cat's movement till the time it retreats into the forest," Khandelwal said. The victims would be given financial compensation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-villagers-injured-in-tiger-attacks-close-shave-for-two-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75497438.cms||Keshav Agarwal
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Meet the lil’ girls who broke their piggy bank to feed those hit by coronavirus||Two Hyderabad-based sisters, Saniya and Taniya Begum have shown that age is no bar when it comes to being a Good Samaritan. Aged 9 and 7 respectively, the duo decided to break their piggy bank and use their savings of `31,000 to help feed those who are affected by the ongoing crisis. Shaik Salauddin, proud father of the two girls, tells us, “For the past four years, both my kids have been saving up pocket money given to them by me or other relatives. Recently, it was my younger daughter Taniya’s birthday, and when I asked her what she wanted, she asked me to help her and her sister to donate their savings to those suffering due to this pandemic. I was filled with pride.” BREAKING THE PIGGY BANK: Saniya and Taniya Begum, aged 9 and 7, donated their entire savings of `31,000 from their piggy bank to those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic It is so sad to see so many people going hungry because of this crisis. So my sister and I decided to break our piggy bank to help them - –Saniya Begum Salauddin, who is also the National General Secretary, Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers (IFAT), says they have used the money to help a few cab drivers and daily wage workers who have been affected by the ongoing lockdown. “There are so many cab drivers who lost employment because of this lockdown. I prepared a list of cab drivers, daily wage workers and senior citizens who are in dire need of help. We donated 75 grocery kits thanks to my little girls,” he says, beaming. Saniya Begum, the nine-year-old, who was the brains behind the initiative, adds, “It is so sad to see so many people going hungry because of this crisis. So my sister and I decided to break our piggy bank to help them. We feel happy to have helped others during such a difficult time.” - Pathi.Thadhagath@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/meet-the-lil-girls-who-broke-their-piggy-bank-to-feed-those-hit-by-coronavirus/articleshow/75497478.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Centre puts only three Karnataka districts in red zone, state has 14||BENGALURU: The Centre’s classification of districts created confusion in Karnataka as the state’s own categorisation deviates significantly from the health ministry’s list. For instance, the Centre put the number of districts in the red zone in state at three, while the state Covid-19 war room puts it at 14. Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru figure in the red zone in both lists. While Bengaluru Rural with zero active cases on May 1makes it to the Centre’s red-zone list, it is in the orange zone according to the state. ‘State govt can make additions to zones’In addition to these two, the state classifies Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Mandya, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkaballapura, Dharwad, Gadag, Tumakuru and Davanagere as red-zone districts. State Covid war-room authorities said they would take a look at the Centre’s criteria for classification and take a call. Besides, incharge Munish Mudgil pointed out that states are allowed to make additions to the red and orange zones. According to the Centre’s list, Karnataka has 13 districts in the orange zone and 14 in the green zone. Sudan said, “the districts were earlier designated as hotspots or red zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria. This classification takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. A district will be considered under the green zone if there are no confirmed cases so far or if there is no reported case in the past 21 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/centre-puts-only-three-karnataka-districts-in-red-zone-state-has-14/articleshow/75499371.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 2, 2020||India||Lockdown 3.0: Curbs extended for 2 weeks, with some easing||NEW DELHI: Two days before the scheduled end of the national lockdown, the Centre on Friday extended it by another two weeks, but with significant easing of curbs intended to reopen the country and restart economic activity even in the red zones, leaving only containment areas under strict restrictions. The movement of individuals for "non-essential" activities has been prohibited between 7pm and 7am, and senior citizens, persons with co-morbidities (health conditions) and children below 10 years are to stay at home except for health purposes. This can allow domestic help and other local workers to work during the day though states are expected to further clarify the rules in this regard. Private offices (at 33% staff strength) will be able to function even in red zones. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts wereThe norms set the framework for states, which can increase restrictions but cannot dilute them. The norms allow near-normalcy in green zones, now designated as areas with no fresh Covid-19 cases for 21 days, with the movement of taxis, autos and rickshaws. The same applies to orange zones where no cases have been detected for a fortnight but such movement is prohibited in red zones. Buses will also be allowed to operate at 50% capacity in green zones. In red zones, private four-wheelers with maximum two passengers in the back are permitted but for two-wheelers, no pillion riders are allowed. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesRead AlsoLockdown 3.0: What all you can do from today, and what you can'tNEW DELHI: The second extension of coronavirus-induced lockdown began across the country from Monday. The two-week extension was announced by the government on Friday. Lockdown 3.0 began as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country breached the 40,000-mark. Here is a look at the various activitiesE-commerce firms can start delivering non-essential items in orange and green zones but not in red zones, which will rule out several cities. The revised guidelines have a relatively small negative list though officials explained that this is subject to change, keeping in view how the coronavirus infection progresses. As of now, several cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai are battling the outbreak. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageA limited number of activities remain prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of zones. These include travel by air, rail, Metro and inter-state movement by road, running of educational institutions and coaching centres, hospitality services, including hotels and restaurants, places of large public gatherings like cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes as well as social, religious, political, cultural and other gatherings. Movement by air, rail and road has been allowed for select purposes. In a major relief for states that have been slammed by excise losses, there is no prohibition on the sale of liquor and tobacco products. The "national directives on Covid-19 management" have been relaxed to allow liquor shops to open with a minimum 6-foot distance between people and no more than five people present at one time. The consumption of liquor, paan, gutka or tobacco in public places will, however, continue to be banned. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news As per the norms, wearing a face cover will be compulsory and use of the Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for both public and private sector employees. In red zones, service providers, including domestic helps and drivers, can travel to households for work between 7am and 7pm though not to and from containment zones. Barber shops, spas and salons will remain closed in red zones, though they can operate in green and orange zones. Industrial establishments like SEZs and EOUs, manufacturing of essential goods and IT hardware can resume in urban areas of red zones. All industrial activities may resume in rural areas. Only in-situ construction will be permitted in urban areas falling in red zones (outside containment zones) but all construction activities in rural areas. Markets and marketplaces will remain shut in urban areas of red zones though standalone/neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes can function. In rural areas, only malls will remain closed. Even in red zones, print and electronic media, IT and IT-enabled services, data and call centres, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services and services provided by self-employed people, except barbers, can operate. In orange zones, besides all activities allowed in red zones, taxis and cab aggregators with a driver and two passengers can ply. No inter-district or intra-district plying of buses is permitted, However inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles will be allowed for only permitted activities. In green zones, all activities apart from those prohibited across all zones are allowed. Buses can ply here at 50% capacity and bus depots will operate at 50% capacity. All agriculture activities like sowing, harvesting, procurement and marketing operations in the agricultural supply chain are permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-extension-in-india-curbs-extended-for-2-weeks-with-some-easing/articleshow/75498388.cms||Bharti Jain
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Day 1: Over 3,600 of Punjab’s migrant workers register to go home||CHANDIGARH: As the central government is requisitioning trains to ferry migrant labourers to their home states, the Punjab government's records reveal there are around 5.76 lakh migrant workers in 22 districts of the state. Over 3,600 came forward till Friday evening after the state government on Thursday directed all the deputy commissioners to collect details of migrant workers who want to return to their homes. They belong to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and some other states. These details would be collected till May 3 and the outward movement of migrant workers is expected to start after May 5. The chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh has urged PM Narendra Modi to provide trains to ferry willing these workers to their respective states. The DCs have to ensure that all the migrant workers, who want to return to their respective states, are medically examined before they are allowed to board trains or other means of transport. Ludhiana district has most migrant workers in PunjabThough these migrant workers are being facilitated to return to their home states, farmers in Punjab are a worried lot keeping in view the paddy sowing season which starts in June. Punjab is largely dependent on migrant labourers for sowing and harvesting crops. The estimated details on the number of migrant workers in 22 districts of Punjab have been collected through field officers and the state government has not carried out any specific survey for these details. Ludhiana district, home to maximum industries in the state, has maximum number of around 3.02 lakh migrant workers in the state, followed by around 45,000 in Sangrur and 39,500 in Mohali. VK Janjua, principal secretary of labour department, said to accommodate such migrant workers, the state government has converted schools and community halls into shelter homes. “There are 151 shelter homes but these shelter homes are just accommodating around 2,000 migrant labourers,” said Janjua. He added that most migrant workers are residing in colonies or huts in various districts. Over 100 relief camps have also been established by various NGOs across the state where food is being provided to these workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-1-over-3600-of-punjabs-migrant-workers-register-to-go-home/articleshow/75499392.cms||Sanjeev Verma
May 2, 2020||India||In Centre’s new list, 18% districts still in red zone, but 43% in green & 39% orange||NEW DELHI: The Centre has formulated a new list classifying 733 districts across the country as 130 red zones, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones to implement its Covid-19 containment strategy and enforce the third phase of the lockdown starting on May 4. The data show 17.7% of all 733 districts are still in the red zone and 38.7% in orange with a significant 43.5% in the green zone. Read AlsoLockdown 3.0: Complete list of districts classified as Red, Orange, Green zonesNEW DELHI: The government has classified 733 districts of India into three zones — Red, Orange and Green — as part of its strategy to combat the spread of coronavirus pandemic. As per latest report, there were 130 districts in the country designated as 'Red Zone', while 284 districts wereHowever, all major cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata, continue to be in the red zone. The list comes along with fresh guidelines for monitoring containment and buffer zones with stricter measures like house-to-house surveillance and enhanced testing, apart from considering the actual number of cases and their doubling time. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates 75497261The health ministry has written to all states asking them to demarcate the containment zones and restrict movement. A district will now qualify as a green zone if there are no confirmed cases till date or no case reported in the last 21 days, according to the new order from the health ministry. So far, a district classified as a green zone if there were no cases reported for 28 days. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage The districts were earlier designated as hotspots or red zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. According to the health ministry, since the recovery rate has gone up, districts are now being designated across various zones on a broad-based criteria. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageWhat will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback," health secretary Preeti Sudan wrote to chief secretaries of states on Thursday. Till April 30, there were 129 districts in the red zone, 297 in orange and 307 in the green zone. The government’s new assessment shows that 12 new districts have qualified as green zone. While the number of districts in the red zone have remained largely unchanged, those identified as orange zones with no new cases in 14 days have reduced from 297 to 284, primarily because many have moved to the green zone. Under the new guidelines, the Centre has asked states to create buffer zones around containment areas as a safety measure to eliminate any chances of the virus spreading. The health secretary has asked all states to outline the containment areas and buffer zones in the identified red and orange zone districts and notify the same. "The containment zone is the core area and the buffer zone is the area beyond the containment zone. The containment zone will require stricter measures like house-to-house surveillance," health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. While the list will be revised every week, states will not be allowed to relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red and orange zones. However, states can designate additional red and orange zones. According to the Centre’s list, UP has the highest number of districts in the red zone — 19, followed by Maharashtra at 14. While Tamil Nadu has 12, Delhi’s all 11 districts are in the red zone. West Bengal has 10, whereas Andhra Pradesh and Bihar have five districts each in the red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-zones-india-in-centres-new-list-18-districts-still-in-red-zone-but-43-in-green-39-orange/articleshow/75498727.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Poverty-stricken man kills kid, says couldn’t feed three children||HYDERABAD: A thirty-yearold farmer in the tribal hamlet of Gonguluru in Sanga Reddy district slit his four-year-old daughter’s throat with a kitchen knife and killed her. He told cops during interrogation that he killed the girl because he had two more children and was not sure he would be able to feed all three in the future. Police officials added that Jeeva (30) was poor and had accumulated a substantial debt. The lockdown only worsened their financial condition, cops said. District police officials said Jeeva and his family were sleeping on two different mats in front of their hut on Thursday night. While Jeeva, his wife and their son were sleeping on one mat, the two daughters were on the adjacent mat along with their aunt. Family members noticed blood stains on Jeeva’s bodyAt around 10.30pm Jeeva suddenly started shouting and woke up his family. He said their daughter was not seen anywhere and everyone should start looking for her. “Jeeva was holding a stick in his hand when he woke up his family. The girl’s body was found in a pool of blood just a little away from the hut,” DSP Sreedhar Reddy told TOI. He added that family members noticed that Jeeva had blood stains on his body. When they questioned him, he gave vague answers. He was later taken into custody by the cops and confessed that he had killed the girl. “During the interrogation, the accused said that he did not know what he was doing as he was in financial distress. Besides, he said that he found it difficult to take care of three children,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-poverty-stricken-man-kills-kid-says-couldnt-feed-three-children/articleshow/75499396.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Foswac: Open liquor vends from 11am-3pm, allow morning walks in Chandigarh||By-Piyush Sarna CHANDIGARH: The Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (Foswac) has sent a list of suggestions to the finance secretary, Ajay Sinha. UT advisor Manoj Parida had asked for suggestions for opening up of the city after May 3. The Foswac officials have sent a list of nine points. The first point mentions that the residents should be allowed to go out for morning walk in the neighborhood parks only with the condition of wearing masks and keeping safe distance. “Nobody should be allowed to leave the sector on the pretext of morning walk,” they mentioned. They also added that the local markets should be opened from 10am to 5pm and vehicle movement should be operational during the same timings, following odd-even system. Interestingly, to prevent black marketing of liquor in the city, officials of Foswac want liquor vends to open from 11am to 3pm. Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Foswac, said, “In the current scenario of Covid-19, it is difficult for the administration to lift the lockdown in the city. Keeping in view the prolonged lockdown and difficulties faced by residents, these relaxations should be given.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/foswac-open-liquor-vends-from-11am-3pm-allow-morning-walks-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75499308.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Five Hazur Sahib pilgrims among six new coronavirus positive in Fatehgarh Sahib||FATEHGARH SAHIB: Six new coronavirus cases were reported in Fatehgarh Sahib district on Friday taking the tally in the district to 9 cases of which two are already cured. On Friday, the health authorities claimed that samples of five pilgrims and a combine operator of a village in Fatehgarh Sahib had reported positive. On Thursday, the district health authorities have sent 13 samples of pilgrims who were brought back from Hazur Sahib. The officials said that of these, five pilgrims including a middle-aged woman had tested positive. They revealed that in a separate case, a 32-year-old combine operator of Gunia Majra village of the district has also tested positive on Friday. The combine operator according to health officials has reached Fatehgarh Sahib on April 28 and his samples were taken on April 29. Civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said, “Five pilgrims and a combine operator had tested positive of the virus on Friday, whereas on Thursday an eighteen-year-old combine operator from Naraingarh Channa village tested positive. The patients are being sent to Gian Sagar medical college and hospital Banur for treatment and they will be kept in isolation." Mass media officer Parminder said that even the pilgrims, who had tested negative of the virus, will remain under quarantine period for 21 days while the positive cases will be sent to Gian Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-five-hazur-sahib-pilgrims-among-six-new-coronavirus-positive-in-fatehgarh-sahib/articleshow/75499427.cms||Bharat Khanna
May 2, 2020||Indore||Minor abducted, held hostage & gang-raped for 2 days in Indore||INDORE: Despite stringent Covid-19 lockdown in place, a 15-year-old was allegedly abducted, held hostage at a construction site and gangraped for two days by her neighbour in Indore. She was rescued by her parents on May 1, and filed a complaint with police a day later. She alleges that on April 28, someone she knew tricked her into going with him to an under-construction house near her locality, where one of his friends was already waiting. They held her captive for two days and raped her. Her parents, who were looking for her, found her there and brought her home but the alleged rapists had fled. Police have registered a case on her complaint and booked the accused under POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/minor-abducted-held-hostage-gang-raped-for-2-days-in-indore/articleshow/75499430.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||29 families account for 25% of total Covid-19 cases in Dharavi||MUMBAI: The BMC, which has undertaken a vulnerability analysis of Dharavi area where the number of Covid-19 cases has been on a steady rise, has found that 29 families have 97 of the total 369 coronavirus patients or about 25% of the total cases. Many of these families are those residing in the five high-risk zones identified by the civic body in Mukund Nagar, Madina Nagar, Social Nagar, Kalyanwadi and Muslim Nagar. In an instance of the virus spread in the area, authorities said a 31-year-old patient from Kalyanwadi is the relative of a 70-year old woman residing in the same locality who had died on April 9. The elderly woman’s husband had died a few days ago and the 31-year old had visited her to offer condolences and is learned to have contracted the virus then. In another case from Mukund Nagar where the BMC had held a health camp after a father-son duo tested positive, five more persons who were their high-risk contacts tested positive later. The analysis, which is still underway, will identify areas which are seeing maximum growth in Covid-19 cases and also parts where community toilets are most burdened, among other things, so that a strategy to curb the cases can be worked out. The total number of Covid-19 positive patients in Asia’s largest slum stands at 369, which includes 18 deaths. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward said, “While analysing the data of positive patients, we found 29 families had contributed to almost 97 of the total patients who have tested positive so far. We have conducted nearly 1,900 tests. While we immediately isolate the high-risk contacts of patients, often they develop symptoms during the 14-day quarantine period. Hence, we are expanding the quarantine capacity and have also taken over the administrative building of Mahim Nature Park where 500 beds will be set up.” Other quarantine centres that are already operational include Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex with 300 beds, the 700-bed isolation facility at Dharavi transit camp school, 130 rooms in 11 lodges in the locality and 100 beds in a community hall. In addition, the BMC has also acquired a private school where it plans to set up a 1,000-bed institutional quarantine facility in the next five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/29-families-account-for-25-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-dharavi/articleshow/75499447.cms||Richa Pinto
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||5,000 MSME units resume operations across Madhya Pradesh, caution is the key||INDORE: Around 5,000 MSMEs have been granted permission to operate in Madhya Pradesh, but outside containment zones. “Close to 5,000 MSME units, or about 21% of those registered in the state, have been permitted to resume work. Around 70% MSMEs are in urban areas,” said Rajesh Rajora, principal secretary, industries department. The district Crisis Management Committee is inspecting districts and taking calls on relaxing or continuing with the lockdown in coordination with the district administration, he added. While most industries located in rural areas have been permitted to operate with skeletal staff and restrictions on commute of workers from containment areas, many districts have allowed small mining, automobile factories, pump manufacturers, food and agro related industries, pharmaceuticals, packaging and SEZs to resume operations. Red zonesIn Dhar, a red zone, around 800 industries have been made operational in Pithampur. All these units are outside containment areas and have restrictions on taking employees from within the city. Pithampur has a large segment of automobile and pharmaceuticals units. Dewas, another red zone, has granted approval to 60 industries, mostly in rural belts with restrictions on number of workers per shift. These include players in pharmaceuticals, food processing and leather goods. District administrations in orange zones, in collaboration with the newly formed District Crisis Management Committee, are assessing local situations to decide whether to ease restrictions in some areas or persist with complete lockdown. The administrations of Ratlam, Mandsaur, Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur, Alirajpur, Shajapur and Agar Malwa are yet to decide on which businesses can open up. Indore divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “Many industries have received the nod to operate in areas where safety rules are being complied with. At the same time, complete relaxation cannot be given.” Asked about liquor shops, he said the government will take the call after assessing the situation. Green zonesThough Neemuch and Jhabua are green zones, both administrations have decided to follow the lockdown due to Covid cases in neighbouring areas. Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh said, “Since we share our boundaries with Mandsaur and Rajasthan, we have to be extra careful in allowing permissions and movement of people. We plan to allow shops of non-essential items for 2-3 days a week and will see how things go for a week.” The administration has allowed mining activity involving 5-8 workers in the district. Jhabua collector Prabal Sipaha said, “There is a huge movement of migrant workers from this region and we are surrounded by areas having coronavirus cases, so we will continue with lockdown, except for relaxing essential services. Shops for food, vegetables will be allowed in certain timings. ” Some government construction activity is also allowed.In Meghnagar industrial area of Jhabua, 32 industries have been permitted to resume operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5000-msme-units-resume-operations-across-madhya-pradesh-caution-is-the-key/articleshow/75499460.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 2, 2020||Indore||5,000 MSME units resume operations across Madhya Pradesh, caution is the key||INDORE: Around 5,000 MSMEs have been granted permission to operate in Madhya Pradesh, but outside containment zones. “Close to 5,000 MSME units, or about 21% of those registered in the state, have been permitted to resume work. Around 70% MSMEs are in urban areas,” said Rajesh Rajora, principal secretary, industries department. The district Crisis Management Committee is inspecting districts and taking calls on relaxing or continuing with the lockdown in coordination with the district administration, he added. While most industries located in rural areas have been permitted to operate with skeletal staff and restrictions on commute of workers from containment areas, many districts have allowed small mining, automobile factories, pump manufacturers, food and agro related industries, pharmaceuticals, packaging and SEZs to resume operations. Red zonesIn Dhar, a red zone, around 800 industries have been made operational in Pithampur. All these units are outside containment areas and have restrictions on taking employees from within the city. Pithampur has a large segment of automobile and pharmaceuticals units. Dewas, another red zone, has granted approval to 60 industries, mostly in rural belts with restrictions on number of workers per shift. These include players in pharmaceuticals, food processing and leather goods. District administrations in orange zones, in collaboration with the newly formed District Crisis Management Committee, are assessing local situations to decide whether to ease restrictions in some areas or persist with complete lockdown. The administrations of Ratlam, Mandsaur, Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur, Alirajpur, Shajapur and Agar Malwa are yet to decide on which businesses can open up. Indore divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “Many industries have received the nod to operate in areas where safety rules are being complied with. At the same time, complete relaxation cannot be given.” Asked about liquor shops, he said the government will take the call after assessing the situation. Green zonesThough Neemuch and Jhabua are green zones, both administrations have decided to follow the lockdown due to Covid cases in neighbouring areas. Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh said, “Since we share our boundaries with Mandsaur and Rajasthan, we have to be extra careful in allowing permissions and movement of people. We plan to allow shops of non-essential items for 2-3 days a week and will see how things go for a week.” The administration has allowed mining activity involving 5-8 workers in the district. Jhabua collector Prabal Sipaha said, “There is a huge movement of migrant workers from this region and we are surrounded by areas having coronavirus cases, so we will continue with lockdown, except for relaxing essential services. Shops for food, vegetables will be allowed in certain timings. ” Some government construction activity is also allowed.In Meghnagar industrial area of Jhabua, 32 industries have been permitted to resume operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/5000-msme-units-resume-operations-across-madhya-pradesh-caution-is-the-key/articleshow/75499454.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown road blocks in Amreli invite wrath of Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The overzealous approach of Amreli district authorities to dig up 100 roads and block many more by offloading heaps of gando baval or prosposis juliflora weed to rein in mad rush of people violating lockdown to reach their homes has invited wrath from the Gujarat high court. The HC on Friday asked the state government to resolve the problem of closed roads in the district which is now hampering movement of ambulances and vehicles carrying essentials too! A PIL in the high court complained about the complete blockade after an incident of ambulance getting stuck in the dug-up road and not able to reach its destination came to the notice of the petitioner. The PIL submitted that the district authorities’ decision to block roads in such a fashion came on April 18, nearly four weeks after the lockdown was imposed. It has urged the court to quash the order passed by district authority on April 18 and get all roads opened for essential services. Petitioner’s advocate, Bhaumik Dholariya, said that the road blockage in Amreli is in clear violation of the lockdown guidelines issued by the Union and state government. “Nowhere it is mentioned that the roads have to be dug up. There are nearly 100 places where roads have been dug up. This blocks movement of farmers and farm produce. There was an incident where an ambulance could not reach its destination,” the lawyer said. The PIL urged the HC to direct the administration to remove such blocks from Amreli roads and resort to only police barricades, which can serve the purpose of restricting people’s movement. The lockdown permits movement of people who are in essential services, but digging up roads deprives people of essential services too. The PIL also claimed that digging up the roads would not only burden the state exchequer because the roads have to be opened in future, but local residents will be facing problems till they are repaired again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-road-blocks-in-amreli-invite-wrath-of-gujarat-hc/articleshow/75499444.cms||Saeed Khan
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh writes to Centre to ease borrowing limit||BHOPAL: Hit hard by declining revenues due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is looking at the Centre for financial help. The Madhya Pradesh government has written to the Centre, requesting it to “honour the devolution amount promised in the Budget”. CM Chouhan has asked that “2% of GSDP, as additional borrowing, may be allowed to cover the decline in resources”. State GST collection, which constitutes almost 37% of MP’s revenue, has almost collapsed because of the “freeze in economic activities in the state”, sources said, adding that financially weaker states like Madhya Pradesh are hit harder by Covid-19. Ratlam, Mandsaur yet to decide on what biz activities to startDistrict administrations in orange zones, in collaboration with the newly formed District Crisis Management Committee, are assessing local situations to decide whether to ease restrictions in some areas or persist with complete lockdown. The administrations of Ratlam, Mandsaur, Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur, Alirajpur, Shajapur and Agar Malwa are yet to decide on which businesses can open up. Indore divisional Commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “Many industries have received the nod to operate in areas where safety rules are being complied with. At the same time, full relaxation cannot be given.” Asked about liquor shops, he said the government will take the call after assessing the situation. Though Neemuch and Jhabua are green zones, both administrations have decided to follow the lockdown due to Covid cases in neighbouring areas. Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh said, “Since we share our boundaries with Mandsaur and Rajasthan, we have to be extra careful in allowing permissions and movement of people. We plan to allow shops of non-essential items for 2-3 days a week and will see how things go for a week.” The administration has allowed mining activity involving 5-8 workers in the district. Jhabua collector Prabal Sipaha said, “There is a huge movement of migrant workers from this region and we are surrounded by areas having corona cases, so we will continue with lockdown, except for relaxing essential services. Shops for food, vegetables will be allowed in certain timings. ” Some government construction activity is also allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-writes-to-centre-to-ease-borrowing-limit/articleshow/75499472.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 has not peaked in Maharashtra or Mumbai, say doctors||MUMBAI: On the first-ever four-digit rise in the state’s 24-hour tally, Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, who heads the National Health Mission, said there was no cause for alarm. “This has happened due to a combination of factors such as the fact that we are testing more people as well as the nature of the virus. It is the natural progression of Covid-19,” he said. The Covid-19 experience from other countries has shown cases rise exponentially in a matter of weeks. Doctors and experts said Covid-19 hasn’t peaked yet in the state or city. An official from the state medical department said the lockdown period helped the state build adequate infrastructure in case the outbreak worsens over the next few weeks. “We have ensured beds come up with oxygen support and we have more ventilators,” said the official. The state recorded 26 deaths, of which five were from Mumbai. The state’s total death toll now is 485. Health minister Rajesh Tope said even as cases were rising in some parts of the state, the rate of recovery too was going up and the case fatality rate was steadily coming down. He said that as on Friday, 1,879 people were discharged and the state had a recovery rate of 17%. Also, the case fatality rate was down to 3.4%. CM Uddhav Thackeray said the lockdown had helped in keeping the numbers in control. Mumbai’s death toll now is 295. Its figure of five deaths on Friday was lowest for the city since April 17. Of the deaths, 3 were of men and 2 of women. One of the dead was below 40 years old, while two were in the 40-60 age-group and two others in the 60-plus age-group. Dr Sadhana Tayade, who heads the state directorate of health services, said despite the rising tally and toll, there were a few good developments. “While most metros, including Mumbai and Pune, are still in the red phase, doubling time of the infection has increased and death rate dropped,” she said. In Mumbai, BMC officials said doubling time had increased from 7 to 10 days. In Pune, the toll inched closer to 100 with 7 deaths. But the state update recorded 10 deaths and officials said 3 could be deaths that occurred previously but were added on Friday. The cases in Pune region have climbed to 1,783, with 99 deaths. Thane recorded its worst 24-hour figures, with 3 deaths and 34 cases. In Navi Mumbai, a doctor was among the 20 new cases. 3 deaths were reported from Jalgaon and 1 each from Sindhudurg, Bhiwandi, Nanded, Aurangabad and Parbhani. One death of a UP resident was recorded in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-has-not-peaked-in-maharashtra-or-mumbai-say-doctors/articleshow/75499469.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools fail to upload balance sheets on websites||CHANDIGARH: There seems to be no fear of law among private schools of UT Chandigarh. Private schools have failed to comply with the directives to upload its income and expenditure accounts and balance sheets by April 30. Instead of acting tough, the education department has extended the deadline to May 8. Section 5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016 as extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh states that “Every unaided educational institution shall upload income, expenditure account and balance sheet on its website” and it has been almost two years since the Act was extended to UT Chandigarh. It was only after requests from the Chandigarh parents association (CPA) started pouring in, when schools started demanding fee by violating the directives issued to not do so during the lockdown, that the education department woke up from its slumber and issued directives on April 24 to private schools to do the needful by April 30. However, none of the schools complied with the orders. The letter issued to schools had stated that action would be taken against those not complying with the orders. However, the department gave another week’s time to private schools on Friday. The Chandigarh parents association (CPA), after checking each schools website on Friday, again complained against non-compliance of the provisions of the Fee Regulation Act and also the order of the district education officer (DEO) regarding uploading of income and expenditure accounts and balance sheets by private schools on Friday. Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh parents association (CPA), said, “We are not surprised at this extension of date since it has been a norm in the city that schools never adhere to the department’s deadlines and directives. Same is being done in the matter of charging fee. All the schools are charging fee and sending messages, but the department has failed to act. Not even a single school has been issued a show cause notice till date.” Alka Mehta, district education officer, did not comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-fail-to-upload-balance-sheets-on-websites/articleshow/75499459.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Spirit goes out of liquor business in lockdown||BHOPAL: As the government prepares to open wine shops after May 3, the liquor contractors have approached the government to ‘cancel the contracts worth about Rs 13000 crore.’ They are apprehensive of about Rs 2000 cr losses in this fiscal. “Market is down and people, especially the lower class, which has migrated from other cities, doesn’t have money. This will lead to huge losses”, said one of the liquor contractors requesting anonymity. However, excise commissioner Rajesh Bahuguna said he was unaware of any such development. With an eye on the excise duty, the cash-strapped government wants to start the liquor shops at the earliest. However, a final decision is yet to be taken on how the shops would operate. Liquor trade went awry due to pandemic induced lockdown even before the new contractors could take over the shops on April 1. Liquor contracts worth crores expired on March 31. “There was no mention of the pandemic, when the bidding was taking place for the liquor shops earlier this year. This year liquor contracts worth Rs 13000 crore were given, which is Rs 1000 crore more than last year’s figure of 12,000 crore,” said another liquor contractor on the condition of anonymity. “We assumed normal business conditions and went ahead with higher amount, but in view of covid-19 crisis, the government needs to redefine the terms and conditions along with business rules. For example, in several red zone districts, it is uncertain how the liquor shops and ahatas would operate. But once the shops are opened, we would be expected to deposit the excise duty, irrespective of the sale. In fact, we have already been asked to deposit post-dated cheques as guarantee money,” he said. Explaining difficulties in view of current situation, last week the contractors had written to excise commissioner, asking him to ‘cancel the liquor contracts’. “We foresee a loss of at least Rs 2000 crore in this financial year,” said a contractor Excise commissioner, however, said, “Though I have not received any such communication for cancelling the contract, let me tell you that liquor shops will be opened come what may.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-spirit-goes-out-of-liquor-business-in-lockdown/articleshow/75499489.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Five more hiding in woods held by CID in Palghar lynching case||MUMBAI: Five more tribal villagers have been arrested for the lynching of two sadhus and their driver at Gadchinchale village in Kasa, Palghar district, last month. The CID deployed over 150 policemen and drones to arrest the five, two of whom were in their 60s, from the forest on Wednesday. All five were remanded in police custody till May 13. Before now, 110 persons were arrested. Advocate Arun Upadhaya, the victims’ counsel, demanded an FIR against the policemen of Kasa for not protecting Chikne Maharaj Kalpvrikshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) and driver Nilesh Telgade (30) from a mob of 400 to 500 unidentified men. In an email to the Palghar SP, he sought an NIA inquiry. The VHP wrote to the President and demanded a CBI inquiry. It said the state was not showing interest in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-more-hiding-in-woods-held-by-cid-in-mob-lynching-case/articleshow/75499496.cms||Sandhya Nair
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||32 cops sent to containment zone without PPE kits in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: As many as 32 cops went to Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 — a containment zone having reported 37 Covid-19 cases so far — to assist medical teams without personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, in a violation of the directions of the central government. Cops with just gloves and masks knocked on the doors of people, asking them to come out for screening, while a team of doctors wearing PPE kits checked these people. A woman cop told TOI, “We were not given any PPE kit. We were told to assist medicos in screening suspected coronavirus patients.” Sector 30 too has been declared a containment zone. Around 50 cops have been deployed in both Sector 30 and Bapu Dham round-the-clock. The police department, on the other hand, claimed only a woman cop went inside the colony. Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP, PRO, said only constable Mamta had gone into the containment zone with a medical team without a PPE kit and was along with her family members put under quarantine for her safety. The other cops did not enter the “affected pocket”, he said. Later, all the cops were provided PPE kits and then entered the zone with medical teams. The department has already distributed PPE kits among the cops that have been deployed at the containment zone. Cops were seen making announcements in affected areas and instructing people to remain inside their houses and if people were found roaming without a valid reason, they would be prosecuted as per law. Police also took the help of volunteers to enforce curfew and restrict movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/32-cops-sent-to-containment-zone-without-ppe-kits-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75499491.cms||Pawan Tiwari
May 2, 2020||Ghaziabad||IMA trains hospital workers in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: The district administration has roped in the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to strengthen the medical facilities in the district. Under the initiative, a two-tier system has been put in place to ensure that patients do not face any kind of problem in the medical services and some 200 doctors have been identified who would work in their respective 31 identified hospitals. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey the chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, has been made the overall head of the two-tier system, even as each hospital will depute a nodal officer at its end who will coordinate with the health department. Surprise inspections will also be conducted periodically to see that the hospitals are following the set standards. “In this action plan, 31 prominent private hospitals in the district have been selected. The nodal officer of each hospital will provide a report on numbers of patients who have availed the services and also record their feedback. The feedback will be entered in a register which will be evaluated by the DM from time to time. In case of any deficiency in the treatment of the person concerned, then the respective nodal officer will be asked to resolve the issue,” he said. IMA president Dr VB Jindal said a training of medical staff has been done in this regard. “They have been told how to treat fever patients and what precautions they need to take while doing so. A meeting with the officials of the district administration had already taken in this regard. A webinar has also been planned by the IMA for this Sunday which would be attended by hospital representatives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ima-trains-hospital-workers-in-gzb/articleshow/75498148.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Noida||UP: In 24 hours, 1,000 students fill forms to go home||NOIDA: Within a day of the Centre announcing a planned movement of migrant workers and students to their home districts or states, at least 1,000 students here filled up or downloaded forms to register as of Friday. Police had uploaded the forms on Thursday and district authorities had shared it online the same night. While most students are from different districts in Uttar Pradesh, others are from Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. The administration expects the number to go up. “At least 1,000 downloaded or filled the form. We are continuously checking the numbers. We will have a meeting of the nodal officers at 7 pm to decide till when the forms would be online. The date will be finalised, after which the logistics would be planned,” district magistrate Suhas LY said. Officials said most students are living in private hostels, paying guest facilities and flats here. Private institutes here have shared a list of around 74 students from UP and other states residing on the premises. According to data collected by the district inspector of schools, there are 52 students from other districts of UP and 22 students from other states. “There are many others who don’t want to return because they are preparing for exams, are PhD scholars or because they are well settled,” said district inspector of schools, NK Pandey. Some students, who are not yet enrolled in any institute, said they were finding it difficult to fill the form as it asked for ID cards. “We had come to prepare (for exam) and as of now, don’t have any I card of any course. Please suggest to us what to do,” tweeted Shubham Dwivedi, who lives in Sector 15. Sanket Sonar, a student staying in Greater Noida’s Alpha II tweeted saying that the PIN code of his area could not be selected while filling up the form. Private executives and labourers from other districts and states also demanded a similar form. “At least the government should allow working professionals to travel to their home with a personal vehicle or rental taxi. Companies deducting salaries, landlord asking for timely rent, bachelors staying facing many challenges, fear of getting infected,” tweeted one Dinesh Choradia. Sandeep Tiwari from Gorakhpur said he has been stuck here for the past month. “I had come to Noida before lockdown and like me, many others have been stuck away from home. Are you planning to make arrangements so that people like us can also go home?” he tweeted to the DM. The DM said they will wait for orders from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-24-hours-1000-students-fill-forms-to-go-home/articleshow/75498441.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 2, 2020||Noida||Noida: Those without cards given ration too||NOIDA: The district administration has started distributing ration to needy families and individuals, besides the 1.85 lakh ration card holders. A lot of individuals are preferring dry ration kits over cooked meals, officials said. Thousands of people not having ration cards or registration under Antyodaya, MGNREGA and Labour department could not get ration earlier. A list of over 9,500 individuals was submitted to the district supply officer, Aryan Yadav, to process their application. “A lot of construction workers from other states and many from different districts of Uttar Pradesh got stuck in Gautam Budh Nagar due to the lockdown. To help them, a bag containing nine essential items is given to them,” said Yadav. Called Rahat Kit, the bag contains rice, flour, pulses, chickpea, oil, turmeric powder, salt, chilly powder, sugar and packet containing spices. The kit has been distributed to more than 9,500 individuals that have been identified so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/those-without-cards-given-ration-too/articleshow/75498414.cms||Shalabh
May 2, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Family of woman who died with Covid-19 quarantined||GHAZIABAD: A 60-year-old woman who had died hours after her Covid-19 test came back positive — the first such case in Ghaziabad — was cremated at Hindon Bank on Friday. In attendance was her family, health officials and administrative official, all in protective equipment. The Pratap Vihar resident had been admitted to Yashoda Hospital in a critical state — unconscious, with high blood pressure and high blood sugar levels. After being on ventilator support for a day, she died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday. Since she had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier in the day, the hospital was provided guidelines on handling the body and the funeral. She was kept at the mortuary. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation health officer Dr Mithilesh Kumar was nominated as the nodal officer and a nayab tehsildar was appointment a member to oversee the process. The health department provided a funeral van to take the body to the crematorium. Three members of her family were allowed to attend, all in PPE. Her son lit the pyre. “The family will be quarantined at home instead of a government facility. We’ll also speak to them, establish chain of contact and collected their samples,” chief medical officer NK Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/family-of-woman-who-died-with-covid-quarantined/articleshow/75498420.cms||Aditya Dev
May 2, 2020||Ghaziabad||3 booked for opening fast food stalls in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Three people were booked on Thursday for opening fast food stalls in different areas of Kotwali where a lot of people gathered to buy food items from them.  The three people, however, claimed that they had no other way to survive. “All three vendors told the police that they don’t have any money and customers are ready to pay Rs 50 for a plate of momos and other items,” said Gajendra Singh, SHO, Sihani Gate. On Wednesday, 12 residents of River Heights society in Raj Nagar Extension were booked for allegedly going out for walks without wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/3-booked-for-opening-fast-food-stalls/articleshow/75498430.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||As signal turns orange, will curbs be eased in Gurugram?||GURUGRAM: The city has moved, unexpectedly for its administrators, from the red to the orange zone, which makes it eligible for resumption of certain economic activities and services like autos and app-based cabs. But other than permissions to some categories of shops and factories to reopen, a decision on easing curbs is yet to be taken. Though the Centre’s guidelines recommend easing of curbs in areas not in the red zone, it is the state government that has to take a final decision. The administration on Friday ordered the opening of around 1,300 shops and 500-odd factories in areas that are not in containment zones in an effort to push more economic activity. But the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise in the city, and the results of about 350 samples are still awaited, making it difficult for the administrators to take a decision on implementing orange zone guidelines. There is also a feeling that an increase in Covid cases could see the city slip back into the red zone when the next review happens. #Gurugram moved from red to orange zone#COVID19outbreak #CoronavirusLockdown #CautionYesPanicNo #StayHomeSaveLives https://t.co/SzZvZ8kIqZ— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1588390436000Officials said many states had objected to the classification of zones released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. For instance, Gurugram’s neighbouring district Faridabad is in the red zone though it has fewer cases. Asked whether Gurugram will implement the new guidelines on orange zones, GMDA chief VS Kundu, who heads the Covid monitoring committee in the district, said, “Mostly yes. However, it would depend on the guidelines further issued by the state government.” Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said the district administration would soon hold a meeting to decide on the restrictions. On Friday, the number of positive cases in Gurugram rose to 63. As of now, Gurugram has identified 24 containment zones. Among the shops that have been allowed to open, 554 are in rural areas and 738 in urban zones. There are no restrictions on timings. Officials said most of these shops are engaged in the repair of electronic goods and other appliances. Residents had been complaining that in the wake of the lockdown, they have been finding it difficult to get electronic gadgets repaired. “We have not mandated any timings for these shops. We want shops to remain open for a longer duration so that people do not feel the urgency to buy things in a specific time frame and crowd around these outlets,” said Kundu. Apart from these shops, 513 industrial units, which employ 28,431 workers in total, have also been given permission to resume operations. However, these factories have been directed to ensure that safety protocols, such as social distancing and sanitisation norms, are followed. Khatri said the decision to allow micro, small and medium enterprises to operate was in keeping with the state government’s guidelines. These factories not only manufacture essential goods but other products as well. Officials said the opening of these factories would also ensure that people don’t suffer financially. A total of seven brick kilns, employing 613 labourers, have also been granted the permission to function. Moreover, 72 infrastructure projects, having a total of 12,617 labourers, have been given the green light to start construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-signal-turns-orange-will-curbs-be-eased-in-gurgaon/articleshow/75498297.cms||Vishakha Chaman
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||It may be wait and watch as Gurugram’s Covid case count rises||GURUGRAM: The move from ‘orange’ to ‘red’ zone should indicate an improvement in the Covid-19 containment process. But when it happened in Gurugram, it was not immediately clear if that was the case — as of Friday, with 63 cases, the district had the highest Covid-19 tally in the state with 24 new cases being reported over the last 15 days and six just on Friday. So far, the criteria for inclusion of a district in any of the three zones has been based on the case load and number of days without a fresh case. Those with the highest case load would become ‘red’ zones, those with no new cases in 14 days ‘orange’ and ones with no fresh reports in 28 days would turn ‘green’. Haryana also took doubling rate into account. But that has changed. “The revised guidelines from the government of India now also take into account recovery rates, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. The list of zones will be revised on a weekly basis. We will wait till May 3 to change the colour codes assigned to districts,” said additional chief secretary (health) Rajiv Arora. But the criteria are still not quite clear. Neighbouring Faridabad has fewer cases (61) than Gurugram and one death. In terms of recovery rates, too, it’s doing better — 42 of its 61 patients have been discharged as opposed to the 38 of 63 in Gurugram. But it is in the ‘red’ zone. Arora indicated the urban-rural division of cases has also reflected on classification. The revised guidelines state a district with one or more municipal corporations could treat the municipal and non-municipal areas as separate units. So if the case load is concentrated in one unit and not in another, it could be considered that the spread has been contained to a certain degree. “As Gurugram has a corporation, the MCG areas and other areas are being treated as different units. So it was moved from ‘red’ to ‘orange’ zone,” Arora said. The cases reported on Friday, meanwhile, all have Delhi links. “An ambulance staff with the Delhi health department, a man whose son is admitted at RML in Delhi, two in his neighbourhood at Dundahera, and two others from a finance firm in Delhi tested positive,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Dr JS Puniya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/it-may-be-wait-and-watch-as-gurgaons-covid-case-count-rises/articleshow/75498302.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana government gives nod to restart industries with riders||CHANDIGARH: For easing of lockdown in Haryana, the state government on Friday approved the consolidated revised guidelines. According to the revised rules, activities shall be allowed on the automatic route after obtaining a self-declaration from the industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects online of complying with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as provided by the Union home ministry. In the 14 districts — Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar — immediate automatic self-generated approvals would be accorded within moments of application being submitted on the portal as per the norms. Cap on workforceFor industries, industrial establishments and commercial and private establishments other than IT and information technology enabled services (ITeS) units, if workforce requirement is up to 20 people, 100% of the requirement would be allowed; whereas in case of requirement of more than 20 people, 50% of the workforce or 20 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed. For IT and ITeS unitsIn case of workforce requirement of up to 20 people, 50% of the requirement would be allowed, and in case of requirement of more than 20 people, 33% of the workforce or 10 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed. Construction projectsIn every case of in situ construction projects, operations would be allowed with 100% of the total workforce and no passes would be issued. In case of non-in situ projects, operations would be allowed with 50% of the workforce after issuing blue passes. Units to be closed if 15 positive cases in districtIn case the number of Covid-19 cases in any of these 14 districts reaches 15, all industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects, would have to shut down their operations. Therefore, as soon as there are 10 Covid-19 positive cases in the district, an auto-alert would be sent to every unit that has obtained approval on the portal. Similar messages would be sent with every increase of Covid-19 cases up to 15 and as soon as the said limit of 15 is reached, all permissions would stand automatically withdrawn. Separate plan for other eight districtsIn the remaining eight districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Panipat, Nuh, Palwal, Jhajjar and Panchkula, permissions would be granted on the basis of development block/town or zone (in case of MC) assessment. If the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last 28 days in any block/ town or zone reaches 10, no industrial unit (except essential goods and services) would be allowed to operate. Therefore, as soon as there are six positive cases, an auto-alert would be sent to all approved units. The blocks/towns/zones of these eight districts which have less than 10 cases would be allowed to operate as per the MHA guidelines of April 15.. No nod in non-containment zones in stateThese rules would be applicable only to units not falling in a containment zone. A committee would also undertake inspections of the permitted activities in their area of jurisdiction after the automatic approval to check their adherence to the SOPs and social distancing norms within a period of five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-government-gives-nod-to-restart-industries-with-riders/articleshow/75498323.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government gives nod to restart industries with riders||CHANDIGARH: For easing of lockdown in Haryana, the state government on Friday approved the consolidated revised guidelines. According to the revised rules, activities shall be allowed on the automatic route after obtaining a self-declaration from the industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects online of complying with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as provided by the Union home ministry. In the 14 districts — Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar — immediate automatic self-generated approvals would be accorded within moments of application being submitted on the portal as per the norms. Cap on workforceFor industries, industrial establishments and commercial and private establishments other than IT and information technology enabled services (ITeS) units, if workforce requirement is up to 20 people, 100% of the requirement would be allowed; whereas in case of requirement of more than 20 people, 50% of the workforce or 20 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed. For IT and ITeS unitsIn case of workforce requirement of up to 20 people, 50% of the requirement would be allowed, and in case of requirement of more than 20 people, 33% of the workforce or 10 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed. Construction projectsIn every case of in situ construction projects, operations would be allowed with 100% of the total workforce and no passes would be issued. In case of non-in situ projects, operations would be allowed with 50% of the workforce after issuing blue passes. Units to be closed if 15 positive cases in districtIn case the number of Covid-19 cases in any of these 14 districts reaches 15, all industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects, would have to shut down their operations. Therefore, as soon as there are 10 Covid-19 positive cases in the district, an auto-alert would be sent to every unit that has obtained approval on the portal. Similar messages would be sent with every increase of Covid-19 cases up to 15 and as soon as the said limit of 15 is reached, all permissions would stand automatically withdrawn. Separate plan for other eight districtsIn the remaining eight districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Panipat, Nuh, Palwal, Jhajjar and Panchkula, permissions would be granted on the basis of development block/town or zone (in case of MC) assessment. If the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last 28 days in any block/ town or zone reaches 10, no industrial unit (except essential goods and services) would be allowed to operate. Therefore, as soon as there are six positive cases, an auto-alert would be sent to all approved units. The blocks/towns/zones of these eight districts which have less than 10 cases would be allowed to operate as per the MHA guidelines of April 15.. No nod in non-containment zones in stateThese rules would be applicable only to units not falling in a containment zone. A committee would also undertake inspections of the permitted activities in their area of jurisdiction after the automatic approval to check their adherence to the SOPs and social distancing norms within a period of five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-government-gives-nod-to-restart-industries-with-riders/articleshow/75500870.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bhopal||341 migrant labourers from Nashik reach Bhopal by special train||BHOPAL: After being stuck up for almost a month, as many as 341 migrants of Madhya Pradesh reached Bhopal, by a special train from Nashik, around 6am in the morning on Saturday. They all are being screened at Bhopal's Misrod railway station. A medical team has been deployed at the station. The team is checking the labourers. Around 10 buses are deployed to take these labourers to their respective locations. Through these trains, migrant workers and others stranded in other states are being transported to their home state. DRM Bhopal Uday Borwanker said that train started its journey from Nashik station around 9.30pm on Friday. "A 6-coach train from Nashik reached Misrod station of Bhopal. They are being screened at the station. We had done all the preparations to recieve the train," said DRM Uday Borwanker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/341-migrant-labourers-from-nashik-reach-bhopal-by-special-train/articleshow/75499602.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali tiptoes to normalcy, but few step out||MOHALI: A wary public preferred to stay indoors on the first day of the curfew relaxation from 7am-11am on Friday. A few shops were open in the city apart from groceries and chemists. Readymade garments, cycle repair and hardware shops were open in Phases V, VII, X, XI and 3BII. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan Said, “The idea is to give some respite to public and shopkeepers for being under lockdown for 36 days. We were receiving demands for opening shops other than essential items.” Only two out of 10 shops were open in Phase VII. Similarly, in Phase 3BII, most of the shutters were down and only chemists open. Residents demanded that the administration should issue a list of electricians as well as AC repair mechanics and plumbers authorised to rectify complaints. The Chandigarh administration had recently issued one such list. Dalayan said they are thinking on these lines and would soon come out with a list. “We will ask for those interested in getting registered with us to work in houses for maintenance. We will devise a method to screen such repairmen before they start work. Shopkeepers and residents want the Punjab government to revise relaxation timings to 9am to 1pm instead of 7am to 11am. Shopkeepers said it is too early for a customer to reach market for buying items like clothes or getting their mobiles and laptops repaired. Sarabjit Singh, general secretary, Beopar Mandal, Mohali, said, “We welcome the relaxation but the government must review its decision on timings. People will start coming to markets if relaxation time starts from 9am.” Rajat Chawla, a readymade garments shop owner, said, “The timings should be from 9am to 1pm.” Pooja, a resident of Phase V, said, “We have come to buy clothes for my 4-year-old son as we did not buy any clothing for summers. The relaxation time is odd.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-tiptoes-to-normalcy-but-few-step-out/articleshow/75499622.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Jhajjar, Sonipat see Covid spike as Delhi mandi chain spreads||GURUGRAM: Jhajjar reported 10 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, continuing on an upward spiral the district has been on over just the past two weeks during which it went from zero to 35. In the same period, Sonipat went from eight to 26. The two districts are now Haryana’s new hotspots and the state’s biggest worry. All of Jhajjar’s 35 cases go back to Delhi, and 25 of the patients had been to Azadpur mandi, Asia’s biggest fruits and vegetables market and an emerging hotspot, recently. After a trader at the mandi died last week, there was considerable alarm. The market, however, continues to operate. Sellers from the Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh markets would buy their produce from Azadpur. Those in Sonipat, in turn, would buy from the Bahadurgarh market. The cases reflect this pattern — six people who tested positive in Jhajjar worked at the town’s vegetable market, and 20 from Jhajjar and 16 from Sonipat worked at or were associated with the Bahadurgarh market. “As essential service providers, vegetable suppliers and labourers at these markets were allowed to move between the Azadpur mandi and the towns during the lockdown. That pushed the number of cases up,” said a senior official from the Jhajjar district administration. The administration has conducted random sampling of 500 at the Bahadurgarh market and 500 others at the Jhajjar market. Sonipat, too, has stepped up surveillance. “We are screening everyone at the border since this surge began. We are keeping vegetable vendors under surveillance. All new cases are in the age range of 25 to 45 and 16 Covid-19 patients are commission agents at the Bahadurgarh market,” Sonipat chief medical officer BK Rajora said. The other cases with Delhi links that led to the surge are of people engaged in essential services — healthcare and police personnel. “There were many Delhi Police personnel and those working with health services on the other side of the NCR border who would be allowed inter-state movement. That added to the cases,” the Jhajjar district official said. Like a staff nurse from Luharhedi village whose husband works at a Delhi hospital. Or a Delhi Police personnel from Sulodha village who has tested positive, along with his parents, wife and daughter. Or a pharmacist at a private hospital in Delhi who lives in Vivekanand Nagar, Bahadurgarh. Sonipat witnessed the same. “Three Delhi Police constables, two staff nurses at a Delhi hospital, and a doctor from another Delhi hospital and his wife tested positive. Of the 26 cases we have, 22 have a Delhi connection. We are tracing their contacts, have sealed the border and not allowing anyone to visit Delhi,” Rajora said. Jhajjar, too, has sealed the border and created 15 containment zones. “The health department is conducting door-to-door screening ... There is no need to panic,” Jhajjar deputy commissioner Jitendra Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jhajjar-sonipat-see-covid-spike-as-delhi-mandi-chain-spreads/articleshow/75498375.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 2, 2020||Noida||Noida: 4 kids among 10 found to have Covid-19, all from Sector 8||NOIDA: Ten more people tested positive in Noida on Friday, taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 155. With 90 people having recovered so far, the number of active cases stands at 65. The 10 people who tested positive on Friday are all from Sector 8, which was already a hotspot. That includes four children — two 10-year-old boys and two girls who are 12 and 15. Two men and four women were others who tested positive. Eight were admitted to Sharda Hospital and one at GIMS. Information about one more patient could not be confirmed till the time of filing this report. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said eight of the 10 had been quarantined at Galgotias University earlier. “So we had managed to contain the spread as these patients were already in quarantine wards.” A surveillance drive was initiated by the health department in Sector 8, with six teams of three members each screening, monitoring and conducting awareness drives. “One team each will be placed in the four corners of the sector. The two remaining will be stationed right at the centre,” Ohri said. Information on the seven Covid-19 cases that were reported late on Thursday also came in. One of them, a 36-year-old man from Sector 9, might be from the Cease Fire contact chain, officials said. Another, a 55-year-old man is from Sector Pi 1 in Greater Noida. Others include a 25-year-old man from JJ Colony in Sector 10, a 27-year-old woman from Bisrakh village who was tested at a private lab in Ghaziabad and a 32-year-old woman whose husband, sources said, is a doctor who had earlier tested positive in Delhi. Two others are senior citizens — a 76-year-old from Sector 55 whose wife had tested positive earlier and a 71-year-old from Sector 150. Two patients, meanwhile, were discharged on Friday. “In the district, 90 people have recovered so far,” district magistrate Suhas LY said. With 316 of the 333 reports received on Friday coming back negative, 70 people were discharged from quarantine. “We have discharged 29 patients so far. The others will be discharged on Saturday once surveillance and contact tracing is over in Sector 8,” Dr Amit Kumar from the quarantine ward at Galgotias College of Engineering and Technology said. Those discharged on Friday include medical staff from Sharda Hospital and Sector 39 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/4-kids-among-10-found-to-have-covid-all-from-sec-8/articleshow/75498397.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||22 new positive cases take count up to 102||Ludhiana: Twenty-two Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Ludhiana on Friday. They include 16 pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, Nanded. “The six others are being identified,” said deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal. Their samples were sent to virology laboratory of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Thursday evening. The deputy commissioner said, “Samples of more than 180 people were sent for testing on Thursday. They included migrant labourers from Rajasthan, contacts of Kota students, devotees from Hazur Sahib and patients from civil hospital flu corner. Of them 22 have tested positive. While 16 of them have been housed at Meritorious School, six others are being traced.” “As per government instructions, all others who have tested negative will be kept at quarantine camps for 14 days,” he added. With this, the positive case count of the district has gone up to 102, including one each from Jalandhar, Barnala and Ferozepur. There are 32 more suspected cases at Meritorious School isolation ward, Civil Lines, who are yet to be tested. On Friday afternoon, bus drivers refused to take the 32 suspected cases, all pilgrims from Nanded, to the civil hospital for Covid-19 test despite repeated requests. The authorities tried their best to persuade the drivers and asked them to take proper precautionary measures by wearing PPE kits. A patient from Jagraon said, “We were brought to the Meritorious School isolation ward on Thursday evening. It’s been a day, but we have not been tested.” Amarinder Singh Malhi, SDM (west) and facility in charge of Meritorious School, said, “There is fear psychosis, and everyone is scared. The authorities later sorted out the matter by arranging transport facilities.” On facilities, he said, “We are providing three meals a day and trying to make the stay as comfortable as possible.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Samples of more than 400 people have been sent in the past two days. They include migrant labourers, contacts of Kota students and devotees from Hazur Sahib. As many as 163 patients were admitted to Meritorious School isolation ward. Of them, eight had tested positive on Thursday and were went sent to civil hospital. Two others too were admitted there due to other health issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/22-new-positive-cases-take-count-up-to-102/articleshow/75498717.cms||Mehak Jain
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Contract medical staff hold protest, threaten to quit working||Ludhiana: Three unions of medical workers held a protest here on Friday. The unions included the contractual staff of Civil Hospital, employees of de-addiction, rehabilitation, and OOAT (Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment Clinics), and clinical staff of the Civil Hospital, and computer staff of civil hospital. From 9am to 11am, more than 70 members of the Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees Union (Punjab) protested against the government by wearing black badges. It is pertinent to mention that more than 400 people visit the OPD at the de-addiction centre every day. Mukesh from Dhandhari Kalan said, “I have been waiting for my turn for the past two hours, as the counsellors are on strike. We need medicines, for which we have come during this curfew. Here, no social distancing is being followed.” Parminder Singh, state president of the union, said, “Due to Covid-19 curfew, we are ensuring our presence at the centres in different places. We have given a memorandum to the Punjab government and higher authorities, but the government is not paying heed to our demands. So, the union has decided to stop work all the de-addiction and rehabilitation centres, as well as OOAT clinics. The outsourced staff members are also regularly demanding to be considered under the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Punjab.” Sunil William, male staff nurse at the drug de-addiction centre, Civil Hospital; and Dushyant Kumar, ward attendant and president of Government Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees Union, said, “We want regularisation of our services, and implementation of a health insurance policy. As the government is ignoring our demands, we are left with no other choice but to hold a strike in this hour of crisis.” Dushyant added, “If the government does not respond to our demands, then we will protest by wearing black badges on May 2 and 3, and even after that, if there is still no response from the government, then all the employees will go on a pen-down strike on May 4. In that case, all the de-addiction rehabilitation centres and OOAT clinics will be closed for an indefinite period, as we will not work there” Besides this, 109 contractual staff — who have been employed for the past 3 to 5 years, and are working under the senior medical officer (SMO) at Civil Hospital — too went for a strike on Friday from 1pm to evening. There are 40 staff nurses, 43 ward helpers-cum-Class IV employees, 2 washermen, 3 OT lab technicians, 6 other lab technicians, 4 operation theatre technicians, and 10 safai sainiks, who are working on contract. Raj Kumar, who is working as a ward helper in the isolation ward at Civil Hospital, said, “No other doctor is coming forward to deal with Covid-positive patients. We are the first ones to see them, and we merely get Rs4,500-6,500 per month. We are risking our lives for such meagre wages. We want insurance policies and regularisation of our services. In this day and age, it is very difficult to bear expenses with such low salaries. There are no bonuses and increments too, while we are working overtime.” Vaishnavi, another staff nurse, said, “We have been raising our demands for the past several months and years, but the government is paying no heed. Now, when our lives are at risk, they are shrugging off their responsibilities.” Rani Dhawali, who is taking the lead in raising the issues of contractual employees, said, “I will go on a hunger strike, as everyone is worried about their life, and these are frontline staff working double their time. The government is equally responsible for their lives, as they are not in a safe zone. Who will take the responsibity for their safety? Here, the jobs of 109 workers are not regularised, making them insecure. They are taking care of dead bodies and dealing with Covid-positive patients. The government should regularise them and give them health insurance.” Apart from civil staff, the Computer Operators Union, under Punjab Health Systems Corporation, too went on a strike on Friday. Ravinder Singh, a computer operator at the Civil Hospital, said, “We are working as frontliners, and any suspected or Covid-positive patient registers with us. We are working hard, as everything is online from reports to compiling information. Thus, we should be regularised and our salaries increased, just like the government has increased the salaries of the National Health Mission workers by 10%. Besides this, a secured health insurance and Covid-19 special increment of 10% should be given to us.” UNION DEMANDS 1. Employees — both contractual workers and outsourcing staff — want a regularisation of their duties in the health department of Punjab. 2. Employees demand equal work, equal pay for the same qualification and same designation. 3. Health insurance. 4. Transfer policy for those who come for their duties from a distance of 100 to 150km. 5. Remove the differences in salary between contractual workers and outsourcing staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/contract-medical-staff-hold-protest-threaten-to-quit-working/articleshow/75498710.cms||Mehak Jain
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman charred to death as cylinder blast triggers fire||Ludhiana: A woman was charred to death after an LPG cylinder explosion triggered a fire at her one-room accommodation in Neechi Mangli, Phase VIII, Focal Point, on Friday morning. Sonia, who was around 28-year-old, lived alone in the rented room on the first floor of a factory, Maan Industry. She worked at a nearby unit. Her neighbours rushed to the fire department after the blast set her room on fire around 5.30am. Leading fireman Harish Rawat said, “Some people from Focal Point come to the fire station to inform about the incident. The flames were controlled in minutes. They did not spread beyond the room. When we went inside, we were shocked to see the remains of the woman. The blast tore apart half of her body, leaving her bones behind. We then informed the police.” “The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. The cylinder exploded in one corner of the room. Its intensity was high due to the limited space. We have sent the woman’s body to the civil hospital,” said another fireman. The building was rented out to the factory. On receiving the information, police as well as the building owner reached the spot. Isher Colony assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh said, “Her neigbours told that she lived alone and not with her husband. We are looking for her family members to take further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-charred-to-death-as-cylinder-blast-triggers-fire/articleshow/75498715.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Classmate held for suicide abetment and blackmail||Ludhiana: Twenty-one days after an 18-year-old woman committed suicide at her house, the police have arrested her classmate for harassing and blackmailing her. Both were Class XII students. In her complaint to the police, the woman’s mother said, “My daughter had hanged herself from a ceiling fan on the night of April 9. Days later, we learned that her classmate had raped her after befriending her. He had her objectionable pictures and videos and was blackmailing her. After he blocked her cellphone number, she took her life.” Sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh said, “Initially, we had proceeded under Section 174 of the CrPC. But after receiving her family’s complaint, we arrested the accused, also 18-year-old, on Thursday evening. A few days after the woman’s death, the accused had visited her house to console her family. He had told them that they were classmates and good friends. Her family doubted him. Things fell in place when we questioned their classmates. We have seized the woman’s cellphone, but are yet to break its PIN lock.” The accused has been booked under sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 294 (obscene act) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/classmate-held-for-suicide-abetment-and-blackmail/articleshow/75498723.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman jail inmate’s 27 contacts quarantined||Ludhiana: As many as 27 contacts of the woman jail inmate, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday, have been traced. They have been quarantined and their tests will be conducted on May 3. They include 15 inmates lodged in Ludhiana women’s jail, Tajpur Road, it’s five staff members and seven cops of Sangrur Police who arrested her. The Sangrur Police Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) had arrested the 30-year-old woman on April 28 after 11gm heroin was found on her. She was sent to Ludhiana women’s jail, which has a separate barrack for new arrests. Ludhiana women’s jail superintendent Damanjit Kaur said, “All new undertrials are kept in a separate barrack so that they don’t come in contact with other prisoners and undertrials. The woman drug peddler who has tested positive was asymptomatic. In her barrack, there were 15 more women. Even as they maintained social distance, they have been quarantined.” “We had sent these 15 women to the civil hospital for Covid-19 test. But the doctors sent them back, saying their throat swab will be taken on May 3. In the meantime, they have been quarantined in a barrack. Besides, five jail staffers who came in her contact have also been quarantined. Their tests, too, will be conducted on May 3,” she added. Sangrur senior superintendent of police Sandeep Garg said, “After the woman was arrested, her Covid-19 test was conducted and then she was sent to Ludhiana women’s jail. As she has tested positive, all seven cops, including assistant sub-inspectors, constables and head constables, who arrested her and took her to the jail, have been quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-jail-inmates-27-contacts-quarantined/articleshow/75498706.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||After May 3, only parts of Chandigarh may be declared containment zones||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration is planning to remove the tag of containment zone from the entire city and mark only certain pockets with high number of Covid-19 positive cases as red zones, according to sources. Officials are considering to declare areas like Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, EWS Colony in Sector 30-B, Rehabilitation Colony in Sector 52 and a few other pockets with relatively higher number of positive cases as containment zones, and give relaxations in other parts of the city. The administration may allow opening of shops of stationery, opticians, electricians, computer and mobile repairs. Shops may open in some markets on odd-even basis. For the industrial sector, a sub-committee of three senior officials is likely to give relaxations on a case-to-case basis. As for plying of vehicles, the administration is planning to allow only two people in a car and a single rider on two-wheelers. The administration is also planning to discontinue delivery of vegetables and fruits through CTU buses in urban areas, as vendors are already moving there with fruits and vegetable||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-may-3-only-parts-of-chandigarh-may-be-declared-red-zones/articleshow/75499644.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Make all ENT specialists contribute in collecting sampling’||Ludhiana: Although Ludhiana has six ENT specialists, only two of them are entrusted with Covid-19 tasks — they are taking samples of suspected patients. This has led to bad blood between the doctors as those who are working said they are forced to work rigorously, round the clock. The doctors who have been asked to work have been complaining to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga for the last two months. They want more ENT specialists on the job so that work load can be lightened. The doctors on duty said “The mass sampling has started and is expected to increase in the coming days with the increasing number of positive cases. We have raised the issue repeatedly to include all the ENT specialists at the earliest.” In total, 100 doctors, including 80 medical officers and 20 specialists, have been trained for sampling at the moment. The two ENT specialists on duty include Dr Ramandeep Kaur, who is working at Sunet Dispensary and Dr Ramesh Bhagat, who is working as district epidemiologist. Now these two ENT specialists are working at the civil hospital where there is heavy load of sampling. The doctors also maintained that the ENT specialists working in the civil hospital have been on sampling duty for more than two months, since the start of the pandemic outbreak. The doctors also fear that continued exposure to nasal sampling puts them at high risk of infection. “The work load is also increasing each passing day. We need at least three more ENT specialists. Even rural medical officers can be given training for sampling and be put on rotational duties,” said the doctors. The doctors also requested for a break as they have on duty for long time. “We too need quarantine period of 15 days as is the standard protocol in medical colleges,” they held. Apart from civil hospital sub-divisional hospitals too have started sampling. Meanwhile, civil surgeon has written to senior medical officers, who are in charge of isolation wards at civil hospital, Mother and Child Hospital Vardhman, sub-divisional hospital Khanna, sub-divisional hospital Jagraon, community health centre Koom Kalan asking them to ensure a substitute first before giving doctors leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/make-all-ent-specialists-contribute-in-collecting-sampling/articleshow/75498747.cms||Mehak Jain
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD seeks to take responsibility of Huzur Sahib returnees||Ludhiana: Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha has written to deputy commissioner and sought his permission for handling pilgrims who have returned from Hazur Sahib. Gosha said he was getting numerous calls from the pilgrims of Hazur Sahib, who had returned to Ludhiana and are staying in quarantine centres. The pilgrims were facing lot of problems in the centres, he added. Gosha said he and his team members have offered the administration to take over the responsibility of the pilgrims. According to Gosha, the pilgrims were facing problems like lack of medicines, good quality food and bedding. They also allegedly complained to him about the unhygienic conditions of the rooms and the bathrooms. “Youth Akali Dal will help these pilgrims in quarantine centres and will observe all safety measures while meeting them,” wrote Gosha. Gosha said YAd had sent langar to quarantine centres earlier, but the officials did not serve the langar to the pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-seeks-to-take-responsibility-of-huzur-sahib-returnees/articleshow/75498797.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP leaders observe fast against Cong’s ‘failure’ to provide ration to needy||Ludhiana: The district unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) observed one-day fast in their houses against Congress government’s failure to distribute the ration sent by the central government under Prime Minister’s poor welfare scheme. The office bearers of the party claimed that the ration for 1.42 crore people was sent by the central government, but even after almost a month, the ration is not be distributed among the needy people. The one-day fast was observed by the BJP leaders after the Congress government had requested people to hoist tricolor on May 1. The BJP workers observed fast from 10am to 5pm on Friday. The leaders sat on the floor to register their protest against the Congress leadership in the state. The office bearers, including BJP Punjab general secretary Jeevan Gupta, vice-president Parveen Bansal, treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi and other leaders fasted too. Gupta said the Punjab government and the district administration have completely failed to distribute the ration provided by the central government. He said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is taking all necessary steps to protect the needy in this hour of crisis. Bansal, who sat on fast with senior BJP leader and former health minister Satpal Gosain outside his residence, said Congress leaders have failed to provide desired relief to the needy people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-leaders-observe-fast-against-congs-failure-to-provide-ration-to-needy/articleshow/75498749.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Live streaming faith: Devotees catch up with Dera Baba Murad Shah ji’s online||Ludhiana: The rising number of cases in the district as well as the state has created such a panic among the city residents that they gave a miss to their favourite religious activity this time of the year. On Friday and Saturday, a mela was supposed to have taken place at Dera Baba Murad Shah ji in Nakodar, but due to lockdown, devotees were not allowed physically, instead the trust members organised a live telecast through Facebook and Youtube. The fair is being organised in the memory of Baba Laddi Shah ji in May and then in September again. While watching the proceedings online, people followed the tradition of covering their head and sitting properly as they do at shrine. A devotee from Haibowal, Sanchit Prashar, who is regular visitor of Murad Shah, said, “I am disappointed that for many weeks now I am unable to go to pay my obeisance. But the situation is quite dangerous and it is not good for people to gather in large numbers.” He said many people from the city especially go for the mela. “This time, we had to contend ourselves by watching the rituals being performed online,” he added. Another devotee from Laddiyan village in Ludhiana, Jaskirat Singh, said, “It’s such a divine feeling to be there in person. Whenever there is any problem in my life, I have always founded solace and solution at Baba Laddi Shah ji’s dera. Not just me, many people visit, especially on Thursdays as Baba fulfills our wishes.” A resident of Yash Colony, Monu Kapoor, said, “Our family is a firm devotee of Dera Murad Shah for many years now. The fairs organised here used to see huge rush because people come from all over Punjab and country and even abroad come.” Special buses go every Thursday from Jalandhar bypass and near old DMC hospital to Dera Murad Shah Ji in Nakodar. Two city buses ferry passengers free during the fairs that are organised twice a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/live-streaming-faith-devotees-catch-up-with-dera-baba-murad-shah-jis-online/articleshow/75498762.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||City might have recorded highest +ve cases in a day, but no lessons learnt||Ludhiana: Despite that fact many cases were reported in the last 24 hours in the city, residents seem to have learnt no lesson. The four-hour relaxation in curfew saw many violations that could eventually cost the city dear. Although only essential commodity shop were allowed to open for counter sale in the mornings, many shops dealing with non-essential items were also open. There is a ban on the usage of vehicles for shopping, but many people are violating this too. The police personnel deputed to handle the situation were seen arguing with people who were on their two-wheelers or in their cars and at some places, they even snatched the keys from to make them listen. The residents also forget to maintain distance from other peope even after so many requests made by the authorities. Similar kind of negligence can be seen even while ration was being distributed at various wards — people can be seen standing in long queues for getting the ration, without maintaining any distance. Thankfully, masks have become a part of many people’s lives but some are still avoiding wearing them. City police commissioner, Rakesh Agarwal and deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal appealed to the residents to come out only if necessary and at the times allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-might-have-recorded-highest-ve-cases-in-a-day-but-no-lessons-learnt/articleshow/75498787.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Scared of outsiders, villagers approach cops against workers, drivers||Ludhiana: As there is a spike in cases in the district after pilgrims and students returned from outside the state, villagers are keeping a watch on the combine drivers and workers coming from outside, and are reporting the same to police and the health department. On Thursday, a combine driver of a village in Raikot had tested positive. That created confusion among several locals. Earlier too, villagers have been reporting about persons coming from outside the state, including agriculture workers who come for harvesting. Similarly, in a village in Samrala, a sarpanch had to inform the health department, after villagers pointed out to him that four combine drivers had come from outside the state for harvesting operations. Manjeet Singh, sarpanch of Balliyan village, said later, a health department team came to their village and took the four persons to Civil Hospital for taking their samples. Those four drivers are now in quarantine. Meanwhile, in a village near Raikot, a few villagers complained about a combine driver having come to the village, who had also been working for the past few days. In many villages in Payal and Jagraon, villagers have set up checkposts at the entry and exit points of their villages. Raikot DSP Sukhnaz Singh said they had made announcements in villages, requesting people to inform them if any outsider came to their village. He added they were keeping a watch on the combine workers as well, and ensured that those coming from outside are quarantined, and they do get such information from the villagers. The police officer said they were compiling data of persons who had come from outside in the past more than a week. He added that as per the latest norms, anyone coming from outside would be quarantined in a government set-up. Meanwhile, a villager from a village in Raikot said they were keeping a watch on people coming from outside their village, and did not allow people in without checking their credentials. He added they were doing it for their own good, as there was a risk of people coming from outside the state spreading the disease. Raikot SDM Himanshu Gupta said they had collected information about 160 persons who had come from outside the state after April 15, and added that the list included combine workers. The officer further said that the combine worker who had tested positive might have come from Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/scared-of-outsiders-villagers-approach-cops-against-workers-drivers/articleshow/75498742.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||CMO orders regular disinfecting of ambulances||Ludhiana: Following complaints of lack of cleanliness in the 108 ambulances, district health department has issued advisory to senior medical officers of the district, asking them to ensure cleanliness of all 30 ambulances that are used to ferry patients from different periphery areas to government health centre. A letter has been issued by the chief medical officer to all senior medical officers instructing them of the need to maintain regular cleanliness in ambulances. The letter states that if any ambulance transported suspected as well confirmed Covid-19 cases, it should follow proper protocols and disinfect the vehicle at the earliest opportunity. Sources in the health department said for ferrying Covid-19 patients, health department had dedicated 10 ambulances. But the lack of a ventilator-equipped ambulance is being felt especially when transporting crtically ill patients, added the sources. Chief medical officer Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “We have issued guidelines to all senior medical officers that they should follow to maintain cleanliness of all 108 ambulances belonging to the health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cmo-orders-regular-disinfecting-of-ambulances/articleshow/75498734.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Dyers association donates 15 ACs to civil hospital||Ludhiana: Punjab Dyers Association has donated 15 air conditioners to the civil hospital of Ludhiana. The work of installation of ACs has started in the hospital and the association members have requested the authorities to ensure these are installed in the isolation ward of the hospital at the earliest. Rahul Verma of Punjab Dyers Association said, “Doctors, nurses and other staff of the hospitals are risking their lives to save others. It is because of their continuous efforts that Covid-19 situation in India is still under control when compared with other countries. This has meant that they working long hours daily, clad in PPE suits in which its difficult to even breath. Now that the weather is becoming hotter by the day, one can only imagine how bad it would for them inside the isolation wards without air conditioners. Recently, we heard that a doctor, who was clad in PPE and taking samples of suspected Covid-19 patients, fainted after working for hours.” According to Verma the association decided to donate ACs so that the Covid-19 warriors could be supported in these difficult times. “Thirteen of our members donated money to purchase of the ACs. The work of installation of these ACs is almost complete,” added Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dyers-association-donates-15-acs-to-civil-hospital/articleshow/75498799.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Looking at near-normal, Punjab broadsided by sixth wave of coronavirus cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab, which few days back appeared to be limping back to normalcy, has been hit by another fresh wave of cases — the biggest — completely changing the state’s scenario. This is sixth wave of cases faced by Punjab and largely relate to the pilgrims returning from Nanded in Maharashtra after spending about 40 days there. Since the launch of colour coding system by the health ministry on April 15, most of the districts in Punjab recorded reduction in Covid-19 caseload and by April 27, the number of green districts had gone up from three to seven while number of hot spots with clusters (orange zone) came down from four to two districts. However, the situation completely changed in next four days in which 255 cases were reported between April 28 and May 1, accounting for 43.58% of total cases reported till date. The number is expected to still rise as test results of more pilgrims are still awaited. The surge in cases led to increase in districts in red zones and orange zones, based on which the state government has to decide on the post-May 3 relaxations in the lockdown. On April 27, there were only four districts in the red zone — Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali and Pathankot — 15 or more active cases. Barnala lone green zone in PunjabThe number of districts in the red zone has shot up to seven, with inclusion of Ludhiana, Amritsar and Ferozepur. Tarn Taran, which enjoyed the green zone tag till April 27, is just a case away from getting into red zone. Three districts — Tarn Taran, Mansa and Kapurthala — are now in the category of hotspots with clusters (orange) while a total of 11 districts — Mansa, Hoshiarpur, Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Ropar, Gurdaspur, Muktsar, Fazilka, Fatehgarh Sahib and Bathinda — are now non-hot spot districts with positive cases. Barnala remains the lone green zone is the state with no active case. The number of green districts on April 27 was seven. Only three districts of Punjab featured in the list of red zones issued by the Union health ministry on Thursday evening. However, as per assessment, as many as seven districts having 15 or more active cases are in the red zone. The prevailing situation will force the government to redraw its strategy regarding relaxations and might have to take stringent steps, especially in the red zones in bid to contain the spread of virus. With sudden spike in number of cases, the chief minister on Friday urged people not to panic and attributed the rise to large number of people coming back from other states. Punjab reaches 585 markThe total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Punjab reached 585, including 20 deaths, on Friday. As per the media bulletin issued by the health department at 6 pm, a total of 105 cases were reported positive in last 24 hours, of which 59 cases were added to the count on Thursday night. As per the breakup of 105 cases, 83 were Nanded pilgrims of which 48 cases were from Amritsar, 15 in Ferozepur, 13 in Ludhiana, 5 in Mohali, 4 in Fazilka and one case each in Jalandhar and Moga. As many as 15 other fresh cases were reported in Jalandhar and one each in Mohali and Patiala. Of total 585 cases till Friday, 108 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/looking-at-near-normal-punjab-broadsided-by-sixth-wave-of-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/75499695.cms||Vinod Kumar
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||NEW DELHI: Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. *Update at 11.30pm: All shops of essential and non-essential goods, except in malls and markets, offices with 33 per strength and some business activities are likely to be allowed to operate from Monday in areas which do not fall under coronavirus containment zones in Delhi, city government officials said on Saturday after a nearly 40-day lockdown. *Update at 11pm: Delhi records 384 fresh cases of coronavirus, tally now 4,122; three more deaths reported. *Update at 10.30pm: Lokpal member Justice (retired) Ajay Kumar Tripathi, who tested positive for Covid-19, died after suffering a cardiac arrest at the AIIMS Trauma Centre here on Saturday, official sources said. Tripathi, 62, breathed his last around 9pm. *Update at 10pm: After many government officials engaged in fighting the coronavirus pandemic got contracted with the deadly virus, the Delhi government has stepped up its efforts in order to protect its officials and employees from the rapidly spreading disease. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on Friday appointed a nodal officer to provide all necessary help, including proper medical treatment, to Covid-19 positive officials of the Delhi government. *Update at 9.30pm: Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday directed a senior officer to set up a 'Staff Welfare Cell' for regular interaction with Covid-19 positive government officials as well as their family members. *Update at 9pm: 80 personnel of another CRPF company quarantined in Delhi after jawan tests positive for Covid-19, PTI quotes officials. *Update at 8.45pm: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here has given strict directions to all the patients to wear face masks so long as they are in the hospital premises. *Update at 8.35pm: Over 100 cases were registered and 2,374 people detained in Delhi on Saturday for violating government orders during the coronavirus lockdown, police said. According to a police data, 161 cases were registered under IPC section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) till 5pm. *Update at 8.35pm: Healthcare providers working in Delhi and Gurugram are having a harrowing time as they are unable to commute to work due to the sealing of the Delhi-Gurugram border in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. *Update at 8.15pm: Thirteen people were arrested and 10 vehicles impounded across Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday for allegedly defying curbs imposed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, police said. *Update at 7.30pm: The Delhi Police has received over 700 calls, including 373 related to movement passes, since Friday afternoon on its 24x7 helpline number, an official said on Saturday. So far, police have received 35,074 calls on helpline number 011-23469526 since the lockdown was announced on March 24, he said. *Update at 7.15pm: A doctor of the NDMC-run Hindu Rao Hospital has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. Two nurses of the hospital have tested positive for the disease in the last one week. After the first nurse tested positive last Saturday, samples of 78 other staffers, including the doctor, were sent for testing. Reports of 11 staffers are awaited, they said. *Update at 6.30pm: The Delhi government on Saturday launched an exercise to open liquor shops in those areas where such activity is allowed according to the latest guidelines issued by the home ministry. The excise department has directed four government-run agencies, which are responsible to sell liquor in the city, to identify such outlets which fulfil all conditions prescribed by the the Ministry of Home Affairs. *Update at 6.15pm: Four people, including three women, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to 159, officials said. *Update at 6.05pm: Another Delhi Police constable has tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. He was posted at the Jahangirpuri Police Station in northwest Delhi, they said. *Update at 5pm: The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday announced the introduction of a Covid-19 taskforce to monitor the outbreak in the nation. As per a statement, the university has put up useful information on the website and recommended measures for maintaining health security in the premises. * ANI update at 4.05pm: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday said that 40 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses reached Rajasthan at around 10am to bring back stranded students to Delhi. He also said that social distancing will be kept in mind and not more than 20 students will be allowed on a bus. * ANI update at 2.45pm: Delhi High Court's Administrative and General Supervision Committee in its meeting held today, through video conferencing, has decided to extend the suspension of the functioning of the Delhi high court and its subordinate courts till May 17 * ANI update at 2.20pm: Medical screening of people entering Azadpur Mandi done today amid coronavirus situation * PTI update at 1.15pm: With commercial activities shut for nearly one and a half months and income going down due to the coronavirus lockdown, villages in the national capital have appealed to the Delhi government for relief from paying electricity bills. We are committed to minimizing disruption for the residents of containment zones without compromising safety. Here… https://t.co/U5Kx5bqllv— DC Gurugram (@DC_Gurugram) 1588307745000* ANI update at 1.05pm: 41 people from a building in Theke Wali Gali near the DC office in Kapashera, have tested positive for Covid-19. The building was sealed on April 19 after one person from the building tested positive: Office of DM Delhi South-West * PTI update at 11.15am: The number of Covid-19 personnel in a Delhi-based battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force, the country's largest paramilitary, has risen to 122, officials said on Saturday. The men belong to the 31st battalion of the paramilitary, based in Mayur Vihar Phase-III area of the national capital, that has been entirely sealed after the huge numbers of the Covid-19 infection started building up over the last few days. * Update at 9.20am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336: Union health ministry * Update at 9.00am: Gurugram moved from red to orange zone#Gurugram moved from red to orange zone#COVID19outbreak #CoronavirusLockdown #CautionYesPanicNo #StayHomeSaveLives https://t.co/SzZvZ8kIqZ— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1588390436000*All 11 districts of Delhi declared red zones #DelhiFightsCorona| All 11 districts of #Delhi declared red zones#CoronavirusOutbreak#COVID19… https://t.co/jlAN2C8voC— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1588386501000* #Covid_19 | #Delhi Red, Haryana has most of NCR's orange zones#CoronavirusOutbreak #DelhiFightsCorona… https://t.co/2X5VBFOHPT— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1588385473000*The number of districts termed “red zones” in Delhi has risen from nine to all 11. This means the entire city is now in the red zone, as the two districts that had the orange tag till Tuesday have been brought under the strictest colour code. Senior officials said the districts were earlier designated red, orange or green based on the cases reported and the doubling rate. North West and South West Delhi had fared better on both counts and had been kept in the orange category. *The first Covid-19 positive patient who received plasma therapy in a Delhi government hospital has been discharged after recovery. The patient was in ICU when the therapy was administered, which showed positive results. *Almost 9,500 barricades are being used across Delhi at police pickets and to demarcate the containment zones. If lined up end to end, these would span 6.5 kilometres. And what is more, that is still not enough. To meet the largest ever demand for the familiar yellow roadblocks, the cops have ordered 8,000 new ones. *If the number of Covid-19 cases do not see a sudden surge, there will be a drop in the number of containment zones in the capital in the next few days. On Friday, the number of containment zones in Delhi reached 97 — housing about 5.25 lakh population — with no new addition and de-sealing of one such area in east Delhi. *Gurugram has moved, unexpectedly for its administrators, from the red to the orange zone, which makes it eligible for resumption of certain economic activities and services like autos and app-based cabs. But other than permissions to some categories of shops and factories to reopen, officials said the curbs are likely to continue as they have been while the city has been in ‘red’. *Delhi government is going to double the quantity of free ration — 10kg instead of the usual five — given through the public distribution system (PDS) this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-in-delhi-latest-news-updates-on-delhi-corona-cases-deaths-02-may-2020/articleshow/75499783.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra records 1,008 Covid cases in a day, Mumbai 751, both new national highs||MUMBAI: A day after breaching the 10,000 mark, Maharashtra added 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day addition so far for it and for any other state in the country and the first-ever four-digit rise in the state’s 24-hour count since the outbreak began in March. Mumbai continued to be the biggest contributor with 751 cases, its highest singleday addition as well. Mumbai, in fact, contributed to 74% of the total cases in Friday. The total tally of cases for the state now is 11,506 and for the city is 7,812. The previous highest addition of new cases for the state and the city had been recorded on April 25, with 811 cases in Maharashtra, of which 602 were from Mumbai. Of the 751 fresh cases in Mumbai, the BMC said 399 or 53% of cases were from tests conducted between April 25 and 28 in various private laboratories. “On Friday, we received laboratory reports accumulated over the last four days and added it to the tally,” said a BMC health official. The state chief secretary had earlier in the week directed private laboratories to issue test reports within 24 hours of collecting samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-records-1008-covid-cases-in-a-day-mumbai-751-both-new-national-highs/articleshow/75499818.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 1,008 Covid cases in a day, Mumbai 751, both new national highs||MUMBAI: A day after breaching the 10,000 mark, Maharashtra added 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day addition so far for it and for any other state in the country and the first-ever four-digit rise in the state’s 24-hour count since the outbreak began in March. Mumbai continued to be the biggest contributor with 751 cases, its highest singleday addition as well. Mumbai, in fact, contributed to 74% of the total cases in Friday. The total tally of cases for the state now is 11,506 and for the city is 7,812. The previous highest addition of new cases for the state and the city had been recorded on April 25, with 811 cases in Maharashtra, of which 602 were from Mumbai. Of the 751 fresh cases in Mumbai, the BMC said 399 or 53% of cases were from tests conducted between April 25 and 28 in various private laboratories. “On Friday, we received laboratory reports accumulated over the last four days and added it to the tally,” said a BMC health official. The state chief secretary had earlier in the week directed private laboratories to issue test reports within 24 hours of collecting samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-records-1008-covid-cases-in-a-day-mumbai-751-both-new-national-highs/articleshow/75499809.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. *Update at 11.17pm: Defying curbs and norms like physical distancing, migrant workers on Saturday staged a flash protest at different locations here, demanding that authorities send them to their home states like Jharkhand immediately, an official said.(PTI) *Update at 9.17pm: As many as 231 more persons, including a 14-day-old baby in Kancheepuram district and a transgender, tested positive for coronavirus in Tamil Nadu in the last 24-hours, taking the state's total cases to 2,757 on Saturday, the health department said. (IANS) *Update at 7.39pm: 231 people tested positive for Covid 19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 2,757. *Update at 6.55pm: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami directs district collectors/Chennai police commissioner to take all arrangements and permit industries from May 6 . *Update at 6.20pm: District collectors can permit export units to operate with 50% strength in the urban areas after due inspection. Hardware manufacturing permitted with 50% strength. Spinning mills allowed with 50% strength in shift and social distancing norms. IT and ITeS allowed with 50% strength and minimum of 20 staff. *Update at 5.16pm: Standalone and neighbourhood shops, except spa and saloon permitted between 11am and 5pm. Self-skilled workforce, plumber, electrician and AC mechanic, home care providers, domestic help permitted after getting necessary permission from the district collector. *Update at 5.15pm: Shops selling essential good will be allowed between 6am and 5pm. Only parcel service is allowed in restaurants between 6am and 9pm. *Update at 5.14pm: Restrictions continue in containment zones of Chennai police limits. In non-containment zones, in-situ construction, road work permitted. Industrial establishments in SEZs, export oriented units, industrial estates will be permitted with 25% strength, IT sector with 10% strength *Update at 4.39pm: Lockdown extended till May 17 in Tamil Nadu, says chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy. *Update at 4.30pm: DMK president MK Stalin writes letter to Maharashtra CM on bringing back Tamil guest workers from that state. *Update at 3.53pm: Guest workers protest at construction site near Mogappair in Chennai. This is the third time that the guest workers employed in construction works are protesting against delay in payment of salary since the lockdown came into effect. #MigrantWorkers protest at Velachery demanding the #TamilNadu government to arrange transportation facilities to th… https://t.co/oMP5sExVG4— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1588409316000*Krishnagiri district in Tamil Nadu, which was a green zone as there was no Covid-19 patients, on Saturday reported its first case. *Chennaiites should now contact the state e-pass control room, instead of approaching the Greater Chennai Corporation, to get emergency vehicle pass. People can apply on the following website: http://tnepass.tnega.org/ *12.01pm: Maintenance and repair work at Pamban Railway Bridge being carried out by the railway employees today in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu amid Covid-19 lockdown. (ANI) *Postgraduate students of Madras Medical College are gripped by fear as their Covid-19 test results have been delayed. The college, however, said the state’s protocol allowed them to declare results only if the patients’ samples tested positive. If nothing has been announced, it implies that the students have tested negative, it maintained. #TamilNadu CM Edappadi Palanisamy holds a cabinet meeting at the state secretariat to review #COVID19 situation in… https://t.co/RfkIFsZJO7— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1588401480000*Tamil Nadu government has extended the service of the chief officer overseeing the security of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. *Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone *09.20am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336: Union health ministry. (PTI) *Tamil Nadu govt likely to decide today on reopening of Tasmac outlets. *Chief secretary K Shanmugam issued an order to provide e-passes for industries to enable movement of employees and others and standard operating procedure for social distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments in line with the Centre’s guidelines. *Though the Centre has issued zone-based guidelines for relaxing lockdown restrictions for the next two weeks, the state government is expected to come out with its own set of restrictions. The new rules may be more liberal than the existing ones in the state, but not to the extent envisaged by the Centre, say sources. *Chennai police commissioner on Friday ordered 14 people detained under the Goondas Act for stopping the burial of the doctor who died of Covid-19 on April 20. Two Chennai corporation engineers and ambulance crew members were also attacked at Anna Nagar during the incident. *Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash on Friday attributed spike in cases in the city to five clusters — residents who returned from foreign countries, attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi, participants of a prayer meet held at Thiru-vi-ka Nagar, cases that traced their origin to a media house in Royapuram, and a cluster that sprung up from Koyambedu market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-in-chennai-latest-news-updates-on-chennai-corona-cases-deaths-02-may-2020/articleshow/75499755.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Not just Delhi, Gurugram ‘seals’ borders with other Haryana districts too||GURUGRAM: With the Gurugram administration on Friday initiating stringent checks at all its borders with Delhi as well as the neighbouring districts of Rewari, Jhajjar, Mewat and Faridabad to contain the spread of Covid-19, there was confusion at the various entry and exit points of the city. Several residents, including doctors, healthcare workers and firefighters with workplaces in Delhi who had earlier been allowed movement in and out of Gurugram on production of a valid identity card, were turned back as the administration ‘sealed’ all border crossings, except keeping the door ajar only for holders of “lockdown passes” issued by the Union home ministry and that too with a stricter protocol. And a few healthcare workers who pleaded with the police to let them report to their workplaces in Delhi were allowed to leave on the condition that they would not be allowed entry into Gurugram for the next few days. Similarly, Delhi residents employed with essential services in Gurugram were allowed entry into the city with the same rider. Strangely, there were no arrangements for thermal scanning or any medical check-up at the Sirhaul border, the busiest of four with Delhi — Palam Vihar, Kapashera and Aaya Nagar being the others. Through Sirhaul, however, trucks had uninterrupted movement. Commuters heading to Jaipur were also allowed to cross Gurugram after thorough questioning by cops. Dr Niharika Tiwari, who works with a private hospital in Delhi, was one such Gurugram resident who had to return home from the Sirhaul border. “Till Thursday, we were allowed to travel to our workplaces. But on Friday I was prevented from exiting the city.” Though she was given the option to make arrangements for her stay in Delhi for the next few days if she chose to leave the city, she returned home. Chandra Prakash, a fireman, told TOI he had to report to duty in Delhi in the morning but was forced to return home from the MG Road border. “I was supposed to take charge from the nightshift fireman. But cops did not allow me to cross the border even after showing my identity card,” he said. Similarly, Madhulika Sharma, a Delhi resident employed with a private hospital in Gurugram, was denied entry into the city throgh Sirhaul. “Despite repeated requests, I was not allowed to enter Gurugram. We fall under emergency services and they should allow us.” A number of security guards who were returning to their homes in Gurugram’s Dundahera after their night shift in Delhi’s Kapashera area where they work at banks and ATM kiosks, were also denied entry into Gurugram. “We live in rented accommodation in Dundahera and work in Kapashera. With police not allowing us entry, we are helpless. We have no means to make alternative accommodation arrangements in Delhi,” said Hukum Singh. Moreover, several Delhi residents working with Gurugram-based manufacturing units — including those producing masks and PPE kits — were asked to go back. Sanchit Nagpal, who owns a mask manufacturing unit in Gurugram, said he was stopped at the Sirhaul border while he was on his way to collect masks from his unit for distribution in Delhi. “I have a movement pass but cops did not accept the same. This will adversely affect our business,” he said. When contacted, police commissioner Mohammad Akil said a large number of police personnel, along with rapid action force, have been deployed at all border points to enforce the additional restrictions. “These measures were taken to check the further spread of the virus.” “Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Delhi, we want to protect our districts so it can be open gradually for economic activity,” another police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/not-just-delhi-city-seals-borders-with-other-haryana-districts-too/articleshow/75498114.cms||Bagish Jha
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Chandigarh. Update at 11.02pm: The Chandigarh administration is registering people stranded in the area, in order to help them return home, as the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown continues. "The Chandigarh Administration has set up a helpline, and website for people stranded here and outside to register themselves," said Rajiv Tiwari, Nodal Officer for migrant workers, Chandigarh. (ANI) Update at 10pm: Shops in green, orange zones across Punjab to remain open from 9 am to 1 pm from tomorrow, says CM Amarinder Singh. (PTI) Update at 9pm: The containment zone in the city will be restricted to the pockets identified and notified by admn. There will be intensive screening and testing of all cases within the containment pockets as per protocol. The sector markets will remain open from 7am to 7pm. Update at 8.20pm:  Odd-even formula will be applied for opening of shops & use of vehicles. For example on Monday 4th May, only shops and vehicles ending with even number such as 2, 4, 6 will be allowed. The rotation will continue accordingly. Update at 7.45pm: Six affected pockets declared as containment zones in Chandigarh w.e.f from May 4. 1. Kachi Colony, Dhanas 2. Part of Sector 30B 3. Part of Bapu Dham colony 4. Part of Sector 38 5. Part of Sector 52 6. Part of Shastri Nagar Manimajra Update at 7.25pm: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday appealed to migrant workers in the state not to leave and start working in industrial units that have been allowed to resume operations amid lockdown according to the Centre's guidelines. Update at 7pm: 187 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Punjab today which includes 53 cases from Amritsar. Total positive cases in the state stand at 772, ANI quotes health department, Punjab. Update at 6.32pm: 19 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Haryana today, taking the total in the state to 376, ANI quotes health department, Haryana. Update at 5.45pm: I appeal to everyone to follow social distancing norms in shops that will be opened in green zones in the state, says CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Update at 5.40pm: We have permitted buses in the state to fill 50 per cent seats, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Update at 5.35pm: In areas under red zone in the state, traffic activity won't be allowed, says CM Manohar Lal Khattar Update at 5.30pm: We are in a better position than many states but situation could have been better, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Update at 4.22pm: A 62-year-old coronavirus positive woman from Ambala City, with underlying health conditions, died on Saturday, bringing the death count to five in Haryana, a health official said. The woman died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she was admitted to last Friday with kidney and liver ailments, Ambala Chief Medical Officer(CMO) Kuldeep Singh said. (PTI) Update at 3.43pm: The Chandigarh International Airport is prepared to resume commercial operations and is awaiting green signal from the Centre, airport's CEO Ajay Kumar said. He said that all Covid-19 precautionary measures are being followed by the airport authorities and social distancing will be maintained through distinctive markings in the premises. (ANI) * Update at 2.45pm: The Punjab and Haryana high court has also announced to extend the lockdown till May 17. With this, all cases slated for hearing between May 5 to 16 has been adjourned till July 17. The urgent matters shall continue to be heard by the special benches through video conferencing. No advocate, his clerk or litigant would be allowed to enter the HC premises during this period. * Update at 2.25pm: The UK has announced seven more flights from Amritsar to fly back stranded Britons due to complete lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. *Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the average daily collection of bio-hazardous waste in Haryana has been 800-1,000kg, said an official * Update at 1.25pm: 12 more test coronavirus positive in Haryana. Six each in Gurugram and Jhajjar. Gurugram tops the table with 63 +ve cases while Jhajjar reaches 34. Haryana's total goes upto 369. * Update at 1.15pm: Hoshiarpur - 32 patients have tested positive for Covid-19. All are from Hazur Sahib. They were kept at in a private school. * Update by ANI at 1.00pm: Punjab: A car driver drags a police officer on car's bonnet in #jalandhar after the officer tries to stop the vehicle amid Covid-19 lockdown Watch | Punjab: A car driver drags a police officer on car's bonnet in #jalandhar after the officer tries to stop t… https://t.co/0ICPhtCLVT— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1588404618000*Following the nod from Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to run special trains to bring back stranded residents from various states, the Ambala division of Northern Railway has started chalking out plans for Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. *Himachal Pradesh: The transport department has made all arrangements to resume operations when the lockdown ends. Nearly 6,300 buses in the state have been sanitised and are ready to ply if the government gives the go-ahead. However, the department has incurred losses worth crores. *Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh appealed to those returning from other states not to be afraid of getting quarantined as it was just a means to ensure that they do not spread the infection among their families, neighbours or others. *Punjab: 255 cases were reported between April 28 and May 1, accounting for 43.58% of total cases reported till date. The surge in cases led to increase in districts in red zones and orange zones, based on which the state government has to decide on the post-May 3 relaxations in the lockdown. Lockdown in Punjab: Coronavirus zones in your city* Update at 9.24am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336, says Union health ministry * Update by ANI at 8.58am: Ludhiana police garlands people violating Covid-19 lockdown guidelines; police appeals to them to stay indoors. Till now, there are 76 Covid-19 positive cases in Ludhiana district. *After Himachal Pradesh relaxed norms allowing its people stuck in other states to come back, the online portal for making passes received four lakh applications in a month. *Punjab, which few days back appeared to be limping back to normalcy, has been hit by another fresh wave of cases — the biggest — completely changing the state’s scenario. *As the central government is requisitioning trains to ferry migrant labourers to their home states, the Punjab government's records reveal there are around 5.76 lakh migrant workers in 22 districts of the state. *A few residents of Hallomajra working as security guards in Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, are facing harassment at the hands of volunteers appointed by cops to ensure people stay in their homes despite instructions from the government that all the workers attached with emergency services should not be harassed. *The Panjab university advisory committee has asked the dean student welfare (DSW) to chalk out a plan so that hostellers could go back to homes by obtaining e-passes from the nodal officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-latest-news-updates-on-chandigarh-corona-cases-deaths-02-may-2020/articleshow/75499753.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Ghaziabad||Signal turns orange, Ghaziabad awaits easing of curbs||GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad administration is yet to decide on easing restrictions on movement despite the district moving to the orange zone 24 hours ago. Officials said the curbs would continue as usual until the state government came out with a fresh order, which is expected in a day or two. Although the Centre has listed out restrictions for each zone, it is the state governments that take a final call on the matter. According to officials, Ghaziabad moved to the orange zone as it is not among the districts that account for 80% of UP’s Covid cases. The rate at which cases doubled in the district is also two weeks on an average. If the number of cases doubles every 4 or 5 days, the district falls in the red zone. “The Centre has already come out with its list of restrictions for every zone. But the state government has to announce its own set of restrictions. We expect an order in this regard in a day or two. Until then, status quo will have to be maintained on the lockdown,” said Sudhir Garg, the state government appointed nodal officer for Ghaziabad. According to the Centre’s guidelines, any movement for non-essential purpose is not allowed between 7am and 7pm in areas in the orange zone. It, however, allows opening of shops not associated with the sale of essential goods, and plying of cabs and auto-rickshaws with some restrictions. AK Paliwal, the state appointed Covid observer for Ghaziabad, said the city’s extent of sample collection and surveillance collection had also helped it move to the orange zone. “As on Friday, there are only 26 active cases in Ghaziabad. The remaining of the 71 positive cases have recovered. This is one of the reasons Ghaziabad moved to the orange from the red zone,” said Paliwal. “The doubling rate of Ghaziabad is also two weeks on an average. In comparison, the national average is 11 days,” he added. Paliwal, however, sounded caution, saying that the factors that determine zones are dynamic, which explains why relaxations would need discussion as it would be both confusing and troublesome if curbs are eased, then imposed again.. “So, if a district comes under the orange zone today, chances are it might slip back to the red zone if it fails in any of the determinants,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/signal-turns-orange-ghaziabad-awaits-easing-of-curbs/articleshow/75498101.cms||Abhijay Jha
May 2, 2020||Delhi||9,500 barricades — 6.5km long if lined up — keep Delhi on leash||NEW DELHI: Almost 9,500 barricades are being used across Delhi at police pickets and to demarcate the containment zones. If lined up end to end, these would span 6.5 kilometres. And what is more, that is still not enough. To meet the largest ever demand for the familiar yellow roadblocks, the cops have ordered 8,000 new ones. To enforce the lockdown, Delhi Police has set up 809 pickets that together use 3,200 barricades. The others have been used to block the entry and exits in the containment zones. Each police station has been instructed to keep 80-100 barricades free for quick deployment whenever such a need arises. The standard Delhi Police barricade with a netted structure is employed at the pickets. “These older barriers are heavy and cumbersome to move and ideal for blocking the roads,” explained a police officer. Each of these metallic roadblocks is 1.5 metres in length and half a dozen of them effectively create a blockade to the entrance of any colony’s main road The newer ones are better designed. The two sides of this type have different aspects. The side facing the containment zone resembles a plain and slippery sheet, while the opposite face has provisions for policemen to stand on it to interact with the people on the other side. “We are using the ergonomically structured newer barricades to block containment zone roads because they leave no gaps for anyone to pass through. Each barricade has a groove on the inner side that fits into a corresponding groove on another. Once joined and secured with hooks, the barricades create a wall that cannot be breached. There is also the provision of using ropes to bind several barricades together,” revealed a police officer manning a checkpost near a containment zone in south Delhi. A senior cop disclosed that Delhi Police had a mixed inventory of nearly 11,000 barricades, both of the old and new types, all of which have been deployed during the lockdown. Apart from the 9,500 used intrinsically for the lockdown enforcement, the rest of the barriers have been put up at the usual high security areas to manage the movement of vehicles and people. Police officers say that approximately 1000 barricades are also put up at hospitals for managing the entry and exit of patients. All barricades have been fitted with reflectors and the Delhi Police logo to caution people about the police’s presence. Not only are these barricades effective in halting traffic, but they are now being used to promote Delhi Police’s “Dil ki Police” campaign. “We found these metal structure to be ideal for putting up posters and information material during the lockdown,” a police officer said. “So, besides road blocking, they have numerous other uses too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9500-barricades-6-5km-long-if-lined-up-keep-delhi-on-leash/articleshow/75497935.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 2, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi traffic cop among 5 to test Covid-19 positive in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Five persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday and have been admitted to or undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The district has 71 cases now, of which 26 are active. One of them is a bank employee and resident of a highrise in Rajnagar Extension. According to the health department, he works in Delhi and had undergone a test at a private lab after developing a cough and cold. He has been admitted to ESIC hospital in Sahibabad. A woman from Vasundhara’s Sector 18 had undergone the test at a private lab on a doctor’s advice. Officials said the woman has already been undergoing treatment a Delhi private hospital. Apart from this, the health department had admitted a youth from Khoda to a quarantine facility at IMS College six days ago after it was found that he came in touch with a man who had tested positive earlier. Covid-19 was also confirmed in a Delhi health department employee living in Indirapuram. The employee later went to Delhi and was admitted to RML hospital. A Delhi traffic constable and resident of Vaishali’s Sector 4 was found positive on Thursday and admitted to ESIC hospital on Friday. Another person, a resident of Vaishali’s Sector 1, was also found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/delhi-traffic-cop-among-5-to-test-ve-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/75498120.cms||Aditya Dev
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Compile workers’ info, sarpanches told||GURUGRAM: The district administration has asked sarpanches of all villages in Gurugram to carry out registration and compile details of migrant workers stranded in their areas wishing to go back home. The administration claimed that this is a preliminary exercise aimed at creating a database of all migrant workers in the district for better planning on recent orders issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on inter-state movement of migrant workers. Letters were sent to all village heads in the district on Thursday and Friday by district block development and panchayat officer J R Maan. “All migrant workers who wish to go back home need to be registered in the format mentioned in this letter. After filling the pro forma as directed, submit it to the district office,” the letter reads. The form tasks village heads to note down details, such as name and family members, permanent address, Aadhaar card number and contact number, of workers. “We’re already working out modalities of inter-state movement. But before that, we need to prepare an exhaustive database to ensure that nobody is left out. We have mobilised sarpanch and gram sachivs of all villages to get every migrant worker registered. They have also been told that this is just a registration exercise and neither should they nor the villagers misinterpret it in any way,” Maan told TOI. While many village heads have already begun the exercise and are reaching out to migrants with the help of anganwadi workers, a few said the department has not made it a time-bound exercise and they’ll begin it shortly. “We’ve begun the exercise on Friday itself. Anganwadi workers are supporting us in this. Although it’s not time-bound we want to complete it soon and send the list at the earliest,” said Sonu, Kherki Majra village sarpanch. The move, however, has stoked confusion and chaos at several villages as sarpanchs are still not clear about how to proceed and fear that workers may get their names registered and start leaving immediately for bus depots hoping to get transportation immediately. Many villages have even suspended the exercise seeking clarity and guidance from the administration. “I’m not going ahead with registration as of now. I’ve asked the gram sachiv to visit us and guide us on the entire procedure. I don’t understand the exact purpose of this exercise. Many are assuming that after getting registered, they can pack their bags and leave. I want the officials to give me a clear picture and a set of answers for the queries villagers are coming up with,” said Kankrola village sarpanch Fakir Chand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/compile-workers-info-sarpanches-told/articleshow/75498146.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
May 2, 2020||Noida||5 teams to step up surveillance in Noida||NOIDA: To regulate movement of people and strengthen surveillance measures, the Noida administration has formed five health teams for 13 hotspots that have reported Covid cases over the past few days. While nine of them are villages under the Noida or Greater Noida authorities, the other four are spread across sectors 5, 8, 9 and 10. District magistrate Suhas LY said three teams would be dedicated for only surveillance work and trace tertiary contacts of patients from these localities. These teams would also keep an eye on movement of people and report violations to police. Each team would comprise at least three health workers and other officials. A fourth health team will trace and quarantine immediate contacts in government facilities. The fifth team has been given the task of carrying out random collection of samples. Meanwhile, officials in the Noida administration have started discussing ways to ease restrictions in the district. Sources said the final decision would be taken only after consultation with senior officials in Lucknow. But officials, however, said Noida would find it difficult to allow operations of industries, commercial establishments and offices owing to the high number of positive cases. In the past 48 hours, all three industrial development authorities in the district (Noida Authority, Greater Noida Authority and Yamuna Expressway Authority), which double up as civic agencies, have reported positive cases. “We will seek clarity from senior officials in Lucknow on how to go about the restrictions., We will then issue relevant orders and advisories in a day or two,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/5-teams-to-step-up-surveillance-in-city/articleshow/75498137.cms||Shalabh
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. *Update at 10.45pm: In a big relief to tipplers, the Karnataka Excise Department has allowed the sale of liquor outside the containment zones at the retail shops from May 4 when the third phase of lockdown would come into force. *Update at 9.30pm: Covid-19 cases crossed the 600 mark in Karnataka, with 12 added on Saturday, while two deaths took the total fatalities in the state to 25. Today 12 new confirmed cases and two deaths were reported in the state. Total positive cases were 601 out of which 271 patients were discharged. *Update at 8pm: With the Centre permitting stranded migrant workers to return to their native places due to further extension of the lockdown, the South Western Railways (SWR) zone is bracing to ferry hundreds of them in special trains from Karnataka to their native place, an official said on Saturday. *Update at 6.30pm: Active cases in Mysuru drop to 21. Three were discharged on Saturday. Over dozen were cured and discharged this week in the district. *Update at 6.30pm: Karnataka would charge only one-way fare for ferrying migrant workers in buses to their native places across the state and neighbouring states, an official said on Saturday. "Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the state-run transport corporation to charge migrant workers only one-way fare for commuting to their native places," the official said in a statement. *Update at 5.30pm: 12 new cases, three deaths reported in Karnataka in last 24 hours; total in the state reaches 601. *Update at 5pm: A large number of people gathered at Majestic Bus Terminal here on Saturday morning to travel back to their respective home states amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A majority of them are the migrant labourers who were rendered jobless after the imposition of lockdown in March to check the spread of coronavirus. *Update at 4.30pm: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday spoke to his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik over sending migrant workers from Karnataka to Odisha. Yediyurappa said that all necessary facilities are available for migrant workers during lockdown in the state. Workers have been told that no migrant worker will be left out hungry. *Update at 4pm: Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar has urged chief minister BS Yediyurappa to help the farmers in sending their produce to a market here amid the coronavirus lockdown. The Congress leader made the appeal to the chief minister after listening to the farmers' issues while visiting KR Puram market on Friday. *Nurses attending to Covid-19 patients at government hospitals in some parts of Karnataka are allegedly being denied the mandatory 14-day quarantine break and deployed in general wards during this period in a serious breach of medical-safety protocol. *In red zones, the new guidelines allow the movement of individuals and vehicles only for permitted activities, with a maximum of two people (besides the driver) in four-wheelers, and with no pillion rider on two-wheelers. *Update at 2.16pm: With the pandemic driven lockdown putting a break on hair cutting salons, men in uniform, including frontline Covid-19 warriors are either turning to their spouses or children to give them the much-needed snip or indulging in DIY. *While the Udupi district administration opened online registration for one-time movement of people inter-state, Dakshina Kannada district too began the process for the same. In Udupi district, there are about 12,000 migrant labourers from different districts. Of them, 6,000 are willing to go back to their hometowns. *ANI update at 1.30pm: Today we are planning to operate around 100 buses depending upon migrant labourers coming to the bus station. Our bus passenger capacity is 55 but we operating with 30 passengers only after health checkups: Central Traffic Manager, Operations, KSRTC, Bengaluru, Karnataka *ANI update at 1.28pm: In the meeting today, Government has decided to take only one way fare from the migrant workers coming from outside and travelling by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation in the state to reach their respective villages: Karnataka Chief Minister's Office *ANI Update at 1.25pm: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa today held a meeting through video conferencing with district ministers, MPs, MLAs and district collectors of selected districts to review the current situation of Covid-19 in the areas. *Karnataka government is considering a change in law to allow longer shifts in factories as it works out ways to help them cope with fewer workers and high demand. *Update at 12.35am: Karnataka reports 9 new Covid-19 cases; state's tally climbs to 598, including 25 deaths, 255 discharged *ANI update at 12.30pm: 9 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from 1st May, 5:00pm to 2nd May, 12:00 noon. The total number of positive cases in the state is now 598: Government of Karnataka *ANI update at 11.55am: Karnataka deputy chief minister Govind Karjol today held a meeting with the district administrative officers in Kalaburagi, and discussed about further steps to be taken in order to control the spread of Covid-19. *ANI updtae at 11.20am: A large number of people gather at Bengaluru's Majestic bus terminal to board state-run buses to different districts in the state. The government has allowed one-time movement of stranded persons to return to their native places. *With lakhs of stranded migrant workers set to return home, Bengaluru is staring at a labour exodus, prompting chief minister BS Yediyurappa to appeal to them not to leave Bengaluru. *ANI update at 10.10am: Karnataka government has issued a show-cause notice to IAS officer Mohammad Mohsin for his tweet on Tablighi Jamaat members donating plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Mohsin is serving as Secretary, Backward Classes Welfare Department, Govt of Karnataka. *PTI Update at 9.22am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336: Union health ministry *ANI updtae: Around 1400 migrant workers from neighbouring districts, working at brick manufacturing factories in Hubli were sent to their respective districts on buses, amid corona lockdown. *The ongoing lockdown is set to continue in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru districts, while there will be considerable relief for people and relaxations for services in the lower-risk districts falling in the green and orange zones in Karnataka. *BSY government plans to allow liquor outlets to open in the green zones after May 3. *Vehicular movement will be allowed in all three zones in a regulated manner. While there are plans to allow four-wheelers and two-wheelers, with a specified number of riders/occupants, vehicular movement for nonessential purposes will remain prohibited between 7pm and 7am. *Private offices can operate with up to 33% of their strength. *Industrial establishments in urban areas, including SEZs, export-oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships with access controls have been permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-in-bengaluru-latest-news-updates-on-bengaluru-corona-cases-deaths-2-may-2020/articleshow/75499758.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Migrants being duped with fake forms in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Migrant workers living in and around Gurugram are being duped allegedly by some locals with fake registration forms and deluded that upon presenting the documents signed by their sarpanch they will be allowed to return home. The alleged scam came to light after the Union home ministry announced inter-state movement of workers. Desperate to go back, these workers are buying these fake forms and taking it to the village heads, asking them for attestation and inquiring about the location and time of the buses that’ll take them home after showing these documents. Sarpanches of several villages that TOI spoke to also highlighted the issue and claimed that even before they could receive any registration orders from the administration, the fraudsters had started selling the fake forms. “I don’t know how these fraudsters got the information even before we received the order. On Thursday evening, several people came to me and asked me to sign the documents that they had purchased from some local people. They even asked me when and where to produce these documents to go back home,” Kankrola village sarpanch Fakir Chand said. The workers, on the other hand, are making desperate calls to their unions, seeking clarification. “Even in times of crisis, locals want to squeeze out all they can from us. I don’t know who to believe. It gives all the more reason not to stay back here. Clearly, we don’t belong here,” said Rakesh Singh, a migrant from UP’s Kanpur district. Administration officials too have confirmed that they have been apprised about such activities. “Other than village heads, nobody is authorised to collect this database. The administration has released no such form for sale and we have told village heads to lodge police complaints,” said an administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/migrants-being-duped-with-fake-forms/articleshow/75498164.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
May 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Kolkata. * Update at 11.15pm: Nearly 3,400 students of West Bengal returned to the state from the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan and have been sent home after health check-ups, an official said on Saturday. Buses carrying the students start reaching Asansol in Paschim Barddhaman district from Friday after completing more than 1,500 km journey from Kota in the west of India during the nationwide lockdown. * Update at 11pm: People protested in Salar and Lalgola areas in West Bengal's Murshidabad district on Saturday, alleging the PDS outlets were giving them a lesser quantity of foodgrains and those were also of inferior quality. The agitating locals put up road blockades and burnt tyres in Salar, police said, adding that the situation has been brought under control and no arrests were made. * Update at 10.45pm: As many as 70 people have tested Covid-19 positive and 7 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in West Bengal, said the State Health Department on Saturday. * Update at 10.30pm: The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and the Raj Bhawan engaged in a war of words on Saturday after Jagdeep Dhankhar accused the state government of conducting a "Covid-19 coverup operation", drawing a sharp riposte from the TMC which accused him of "transforming the governor's house into the state BJP headquarters". Dhankhar alleged that the Centre has information that the state has "931 cases" while the West Bengal government's Thursday's data said it has a total of "572 active cases". * Update at 9.30pm: West Bengal reports 15 Covid-19 deaths in 48 hours; toll rises to 48, PTI quotes health department. * Update at 6.45pm: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday, accusing him of trying to "usurp powers" amid the coronavirus crisis, and asked him to desist from using official communications and logos on social media. * Update at 6.15pm: The Central team that is touring north Bengal to assess the Covid-19 situation on Saturday visited Fulbari area in Jalpaiguri district on Indo-Bangladesh border, officials said. The team, led by senior official Vineet Joshi, visited the zero point in Fulbari and its nearby areas. * Update at 5.45pm: A bereaved wife who was coming from New Delhi with the dead body of her husband was stranded for over six hours at the Bengal-Jharkhand border on Saturday. Kalpana Boyal, a resident of East Midnapore's Haldia, was coming with the dead body of her husband Manas Kumar Boyal from the national capital in an ambulance. She was stopped at the Bengal-Jharkhand border as the police personnel of Asansol-Durgapur Commissionerate did not allow her to enter the state. * Update at 3.30pm: Hundreds of angry villagers gathered in front of ration shops in West Bengal's Murshidabad district protesting irregularities in ration distribution system in the area on Saturday. The incidents took place in Salar and Lalgola area as irate villagers vandalised the ration shop and the ration dealer's house in protest of irregularities in the public distribution system. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had promised to give 5kg of rice to each card holder at free of cost in the time of Covid-19 lockdown. * Update at 2.10pm: West Bengal Governor's message on lockdown: #WestBengal governor's message on strict adherence to #lockdown norms.#Lockdownextention #COVID19Lockdown https://t.co/KljSA4ZnC1— TOI Kolkata (@TOIKolkata) 1588406922000* Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweets at 11.09amGive up ‘ Covid-19 data cover up operation’ ⁦@MamataOfficial and share it transparently. Health bulletin 30/4 No… https://t.co/s81Aw5rrUR— Governor West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar (@jdhankhar1) 1588397944000* Update at 10.30am: A ration dealer's house was attacked and ransacked by locals at Salar in Murshidabad. Jyotipriya Mullick, food minister, said that some political party workers led the attack. They demanded 5kg rice per week while the quota is 5 kg rice per month, the minister said. * Update at 9.24am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336, says Union health ministry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coronavirus-in-kolkata-latest-news-updates-on-kolkata-corona-cases-deaths-02-may-2020/articleshow/75499839.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government readies for two-way migration||NEW DELHI: With reverse migration becoming a possibility, Delhi government on Friday appointed 12 nodal officers, directed police to check unregulated movement of migrant workers, and created an online application system on which people could apply for being moved to their hometowns. People can apply on delhi.gov.in and ddma.delhigovt.nic.in. The authorities are already conducting a survey among around 16,000 people living in 506 government shelter homes to identify those who want to return to their hometowns. A sources said many of the migrant workers, who belong to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and other states, want to go back to their native places. The Union ministry of home affairs has allowed interstate travel of migrant workers and others by road and special trains. In the wake of intelligence inputs that some anti-social elements may try to provoke migrant workers to violate lockdown measures in a bid to travel to their homes, the government has asked police to put up adequate pickets at sensitive places, seal the borders and maintain a strict vigil across the city. The government doesn’t want a repeat of what occurred at Anand Vihar ISBT a few days after the lockdown was enforced in March. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is in talks with other states on the status of migrant workers. “I have been getting calls and messages asking how people from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar will travel to their native places. We are regularly communicating with the state governments and the final plan will be shared soon,” he added. The CM urged people to be patient and stay at home for theirs and their family’s safety. It is likely that trains will be used for ferrying people to states like Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Principal secretary (social welfare) PK Gupta was appointed the state nodal officer and special commissioner Muktesh Chander the nodal officer for Delhi Police. Ten bureaucrats have been appointed nodal officers for different states and asked to extend all assistance to Gupta and Chander so that migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other people can be sent to their respective states. An order was issued asking for cooperation with the nodal officers of other states for the movement of stranded people. While Madhup Vyas has been appointed the nodal officer for Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Nikhil Kumar has been given the charge of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The other nodal officers include Amit Singla for Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim; Garima Gupta for Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh; DN Singh for Uttar Pradesh; and Udit Prakash Rai for Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Azimul Haque has been asked to coordinate with Jharkhand, SB Shashank with Bihar and C Uday Kumar with Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. Arun Mishra will cater to West Bengal and Odisha. Compared with other states and Union Territories, people live in greater numbers in Delhi because it is the national capital. The authorities have been asked to maintain social distancing during the movement of the stranded people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-readies-for-two-way-migration/articleshow/75497959.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 45 buses leave for Kota to get 800 students||NEW DELHI: Around 800 students from Delhi who have got stranded in Kota due to the nationwide lockdown are finally coming home. On Friday night, Delhi government sent 45 private buses to the Rajasthan town to bring them back to the capital. Around 11pm, the buses left Kashmere Gate ISBT with a team of social welfare, health, transport and revenue officials. “The team includes nine welfare officers, a team of doctors, transport department inspectors and revenue officials. They will ensure that social distancing is maintained throughout the journey and the students reach Delhi safely,” a government official said. The buses are expected to reach Kota, 520km from Delhi, by 10am on Saturday. The buses have been already sanitised but the process will be repeated before the students are picked up, he added. “The students will be screened twice for any symptom of Covid-19 — first before the boarding at Kota by the accompanying doctors and then again after reaching Delhi,” the official said. “Those found symptomatic will be treated as per the protocol of the Union health ministry,” he added. The students stranded in Kota, an entrance coaching hub for aspiring engineers and doctors, have been storming social media asking Delhi government to bring them back after some other states started similar exercises. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the government was trying to bring them back. On Saturday, he said, “Many students studying in Kota have been waiting to come back to their city. But we could not take any action without the Centre’s approval. As the Centre has given its nod, around 40 private buses will leave for Kota.” Urging the students to quarantine themselves for the next 14 days for the safety of their family, the chief minister said, “I am glad that students will reach Delhi and meet their parents tomorrow.” Sharka Uruz, a medical aspirant stuck in Kota, said, “I have packed my stuff and am eagerly waiting to get home. Though we have not been told when buses will pick us up but I am just relieved now,” said Uruz, a resident of east Delhi. The news also delighted Khushi, who is from south Delhi. “I can finally go home and eat proper food. Due to tension, I couldn’t even study. I hope the buses reach soon.” Shyam Lal Gola, president of All India Luxury Bus Union, said they provided buses as soon as Delhi government contacted them. “We are ready to do so again if required. It was, however, difficult to arrange two drivers and a helper for each bus as many of them had left for home,” he added. The government official said the team had the students’ details and would try to pick them from their residences. “We will also try to drop them close to their homes but no final decision has been taken,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/45-buses-leave-for-kota-to-get-800-students/articleshow/75497988.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Hyderabad. *Update at 11.21pm: Seventeen Covid-19 cases were reported in Telangana on Saturday, taking the number of positive cases in the state to 1,061.(PTI) *Update at 10pm: In a major relief to the large number of persons, especially migrant labours, who have been stranded in Telangana during lockdown period, Telangana police on Saturday announced that they will issue E-PASS to facilitate the persons, who intend to go their native states. *Update at 9.19pm: The Telangana government has permitted real estate developers in Greater Hyderabad to undertake construction activity by securing requisite material and engaging their workers. (IANS) *Update at 8.25pm: As a large number of state citizens, currently stranded in various other states and also abroad, are expected to return home in the coming days, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday directed authorities to prepare quarantine facilities with at least one lakh beds. (PTI) *Update at 6.57pm: With Hyderabad remaining a red zone, the Telangana health authorities are focusing their efforts on the state capital to check the spread of coronavirus. (IANS) *Update at 6.27pm: Even 24 hours before the curtains were to come down on the second phase nationwide lockdown, Rayalaseema districts in Andhra Pradesh, continued to report a spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Out of the 62 new cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours, Rayalaseema districts alone account for 33 coronavirus cases. *Update at 5.47pm: The Congress hit out at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao alleging low Covid-19 testing in Telangana while the BJP demanded rapid tests to identify people infected with the deadly virus in the state. (ANI) *Update at 4.43pm: A constable working with the Rachakonda police commissionerate here has tested positive for Covid-19, police sources said on Saturday. (PTI) *Update at 3.59pm: A man in Hyderabad jumped to death from his apartment building on Saturday merely on the suspicion that he may be exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms. (IANS) * ANI update at 1.50pm: AIMIM chief, Asaduddin Owaisi has hit out at Union home minister for issuing orders to state governments without any 'financial support' in their fight against Covid-19, stating that according to the Constitution only states have powers to deal with public order, public health and police. * ANI update at 1.29pm: The Congress hit out at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao alleging low Covid-19 testing in Telangana while the BJP demanded rapid tests to identify people infected with the deadly virus in the state. * ANI update at 12.04pm: The Telangana Police has cautioned people about fraudsters creating fake 'Aarogya Setu' apps. *With six new positive cases of Covid-19 reported in Telangana, especially in Greater Hyderabad, the Centre has put six districts of the state under the red zone or hotspot list. * Update at 9.21am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336, says Union health ministry *At a time when lockdown norms are being eased and industries allowed to operate in rural areas, especially MSMEs, and construction sites, the homeward flight of skilled and semi-skilled migrant workers has industries and the Telangana government in a fix. *Ever since the lockdown was announced, it has been a 24x7 job for SR Nagar police inspector S Murali Krishna, who has stopped going home for the last several days so that he is available at the police station to address the issues of the people, especially the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-in-hyderabad-latest-news-updates-on-hyderabad-corona-cases-deaths-2-may-2020/articleshow/75499807.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Meerut||Man dies in Meerut after two groups clash over disposal of garbage||MEERUT: A man, who had sustained bullet injury during a brawl, succumbed to it after two rival groups in a village in Meerut's Hastinapur area clashed over a ongoing dispute over disposal of garbage. The incident happened late on Thursday night after the two groups had heated argument over disposal of garbage. The dispute later escalated and one side opened fire at the other in which a man named Vinod Saini (40) sustained injury. Saini was rushed to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Later an FIR was registered against named accused based on the complaint of the deceased's family. There was dispute between two families over disposal of garbage. Five people have been arrested and sent to jail," Avinash Pandey, SP (Rural areas) Meerut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-dies-in-meerut-after-two-groups-clash-over-disposal-of-garbage/articleshow/75499898.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid-19 casts shadow over panchayat poll||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus-induced lockdown that has struck a blow to economic activities across the country, is also set to hit the grassroots-level democracy in the state. Any decision by the government to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 would jeopardise elections to nearly 59,000 village panchayats in UP. With the term of village panchayats ending on December 15 and the state machinery needing at least sixmonth's time to meet various formalities, the government would have no option but to appoint administrators to look after the panchayats. Moreover, if elections to village panchayats are delayed, it would have a direct impact on the block and zila panchayat heads' elections, again forcing the government to appoint administrators to oversee developmental projects in villages. The election to village panchayat heads, popularly known as 'pradhans', was held in March 2015. At that time, too, because of delay by the then SP government in creating new village panchayats, administrators, who are none but the blocklevel bureaucracy, had taken over. Talking to TOI, a senior officer of the State Election Commission (SEC) said that they needed more than six months to prepare for panchayat elections. The work related to revision of rolls in case of partial delimitation cannot be completed overnight, he said adding that “while the roll revision exercise takes at least five months the commission needs over a month to gear up the state machinery for conducting the elections.”  The SEC officer said if this exercise would not start in the first week of May it would not be possible for the commission to conduct panchayat polls before December 15 paving way for administrators to take over. With over 11.50 crore voters, this time the election for pradhan posts would be held in about 58,500 village panchayats. After that by March 2021, elections would be held for block chiefs and then in the third and final phase the zila panchayat heads would be elected. In 2015, the village panchayat elections had lasted for 84 days and were held in eight phases. This time, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already issued directives for reducing the election time to 45 days and it would have to be completed in four phases. The government has decided to cut short the poll process because it needs time to put the state economy back on tracks. It may be noted that following the announcement of panchayat elections model code of conduct is enforced forcing the government to defer development projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-casts-shadow-over-panchayat-poll/articleshow/75499931.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 2, 2020||Delhi||First patient to get plasma therapy in Delhi discharged||NEW DELHI: The first Covid-19 positive patient who received plasma therapy in a Delhi government hospital has been discharged after recovery. The patient was in ICU when the therapy was administered, which showed positive results. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the testing rate in Delhi had increased, and 2,300 tests per 1 million people were being conducted, as against the national average of 500. This makes it appear that the number of cases is increasing. “Common perception will be that there is a sudden and steady rise in the number of infected cases. However, we have decided to increase testing to monitor those who have been infected and then treating the patients. This will also ensure that the infection doesn’t spread,” the chief minister said. The death ratio in the city is also less compared with other states, he added. Referring to plasma therapy, Kejriwal said, “The results are not final, these are just based on trials. Initial results are satisfactory and we hope that this technique can be treated as a sustainable solution for the future.” Indicating that Delhi is likely to try the therapy again, he said, “A few statements by the Union government led people to believe that plasma therapy will be halted in Delhi. The Centre said only the states that have been permitted should conduct the trials.” Health minister Satyendar Jain earlier said Delhi had the approval for this trial. Around 1,100 people who have recovered have been contacted for blood donation and almost everybody is ready to donate their plasma, Kejriwal said on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-patient-to-get-plasma-therapy-in-delhi-discharged/articleshow/75499991.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500036.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500033.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500039.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500037.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500034.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75500035.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu upbeat as 14 districts move from red to orange zone||With the Union health ministry redrawing the Covid-19 map, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu have moved from red to orange zone, clearing the way for restarting economic activity. Now, only 12 districts remain as hotspots with Krishnagiri the sole green zone. With more districts likely to get reclassified as orange zones, the Tamil Nadu government is speeding up work on the lockdown exit roadmap. A notification by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said a number of districts that continue to have active covid-19 cases have been moved to orange zone. They include Coimbatore, Salem, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur and Theni. Earlier the state government had moved 10 districts to the orange zone, including Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Pudukottai and Nilgiris because they had not recorded a new case for the past 14 days. The health ministry’s move to revise the criteria for orange and green zones, reducing the transition time, has come as a big relief for district authorities. The new notification has reduced the waiting time of 28 days without new cases to 21 days for a district to be reclassified as a green zone. Officials dubbed the move as a ‘psychological boost’. Coimbatore which will complete 28 days without a case only on May 21 can now celebrate its green status on May 14. Erode which completes 28 days on May 14, will be green on May 7. Happy with his district’s re-designation to orange zone, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said it was the Centre’s way of telling people that Coimbatore was ready to return to normal. “We have decided to allow industries to function across the rural parts of the district except containment zone, and people can start reporting to work. Companies can function with 50% staff strength,” he said. While districts like Ariyalur, Karur, Dindigul, Villupuram, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore were re-designated as orange, they recorded new cases on Friday. The notification clearly states that the zoning list is dynamic and will be revised on a weekly basis, and states can add more red or orange zones if required. They will not be allowed toremove a district from a red zone or orange zone, however, without the Centre’s nod. Not all collectors though have comprehended the reclassification. Karur collector, T Anbalagan said, “Now that we have witnessed one positive case in Karur on Friday, it may be shifted again to red zone.” While Dindigul reported one fresh case on Friday, district collector M Vijayalakshmi affirmed it was in orange zone because it had only four active cases. The northern region remained a heavy cluster of red with five of the 10 districts, including Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet, classified as hot zones. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said the administration’s efforts in using social media with help of meme creators yielded positive results in containing the spread of the Covid infection in his district. “We had directed closure of shops with more than 10 employees even before strict lockdown was announced,” said Anbuselvan. With inputs from Bosco Dominique, Sambath Kumar, Sukshma, Karal Marx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-upbeat-as-14-districts-move-from-red-to-orange/articleshow/75499987.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 2, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Bhim Army district chief held for assaulting hospital staff||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Bhim army district chief Upkar Bawra, who was jailed and later slapped with NSA in connection with a violence on April 2, 2018, and was currently out on bail, was arrested again over allegations of assaulting a medical staff at district hospital late on Thursday. The incident took place at district hospital of Muzaffarnagar after an argument over medical aid to people who had come from Purkaji area in the district. Based on the complaint, an FIR under relevant sections was lodged and Bawra was subsequently arrested. He allegedly misbehaved and threatened a medical staff over medical aid for his patients. A police team from Nagar-Kotwali brought things under control. Later a complaint was filed by a doctor, and the police arrested Bawar and booked him under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Station house officer of Nagar-Kotwali police station, Anil Kaparwan, said, "He has been arrested and sent to jail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/uttar-pradesh-bhim-army-district-chief-held-for-assaulting-hospital-staff/articleshow/75500052.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 2, 2020||Delhi||With all districts in ‘red’, nothing much changes for Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Centre may have offered some relaxation to the public while extending the national lockdown for another two weeks, Delhi, however, is not likely to benefit much. Senior Delhi government officials said that all 11 districts in the capital continue to be hotspots or red zones where most public activities will remain suspended till the next order, which is expected at the end of the third phase of the lockdown. “We are studying the revised order of the ministry of home affairs (MHA). Since all 11 districts of Delhi have been categorised as red, we have very limited scope to permit any relaxation. We will come out with a detailed plan for the city by Saturday or Sunday,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. #DelhiFightsCorona| All 11 districts of #Delhi declared red zones#CoronavirusOutbreak#COVID19… https://t.co/jlAN2C8voC— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1588386501000Liquor and paan shops, public transport, para transit, spas and salon will continue to remain closed in Delhi, said officials. Though Delhi government is categorising its containment areas as red, orange and green depending on the number of days since the last Covid-positive case emerged in the area, officials said no activity will be permitted even if the area is sealed and declared green as it will continue to be in the red district. There are seven broad sectors where certain activities are permitted with conditional restrictions even in districts categorised as red zones, some of them — such as opening of standalone shops selling essential and non-essential commodities in neighbourhood and rural areas and e-commerce activities of essential items — is already in place. Though the Centre has allowed opening of private offices with 33% staff strength, officials said the government is likely to take a decision in this regard on Saturday. However, considering the topography and dense population of the capital, officials said the possibility of giving any relaxation in this sector was minimal. Sources, however, said that the government may allow some of its offices to open from next week. According to the Friday’s order, all government offices with 100% staff strength of deputy secretary and above and 33% below them can function. “The government may decide to ask officials of some key departments to start reporting to work soon. Some departments have already started working on schemes and policies and will need teams to put the project in place,” said an official. “Back-end activities such as issuance of certificates and disposing of pending applications can also be started.” Delhi can also allow resumption of construction activities in sites where workers are already present. This relaxation, allowed by the MHA in April itself, has not yet been implemented in Delhi. The MHA had issued a revised set of guidelines giving some relaxation in the lockdown to allow economic activities in certain areas while extending the lockdown in mid-April, the Delhi government had decided to maintain the status quo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-all-districts-in-red-nothing-much-changes-for-delhi/articleshow/75498013.cms||Atul Mathur
May 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. Update at 10.o7pm: With 160 more people discharged on Saturday, the number of the people recovered from the viral infection has gone up to 896, PTI quotes said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi as saying. Update at 9.08pm: A 35-year-old blood cancer patient from Intvai village of Tapi district was tested positive for Covid-19 at cancer hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday. Update at 8.27pm: Ahmedabad reports highest single-day 20 fatalities due to Covid-19 and 250 new cases; Overall death toll 185 and cases 3,543, says Gujarat health official. Update at 7.55pm: 26 deaths and 333 new cases reported in Gujarat in past 24 hrs; total in the state reaches 5.054 including 262 deaths. Update at 7.20pm: Three succumbed to Covid-19 in Surat today. Death toll in the city touches 28. Update at 6.35pm: Three special trains, carrying 1,200 migrant workers each, will on Saturday night leave for Uttar Pradesh and Odisha from Gujarat's Ahmedabad and Surat stations, a senior official said. (PTI) Update at 5.48pm: Ruckus at MP border check post in Dahod as stranded workers going towards UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and other states pelted stones on police. Update at 5pm: Hundreds of migrants from Surat who are on their way to UP were left stranded in transit despite necessary permissions, as UP govt is not allowing entry of their buses, Surat Police Commissioner RB Brahmbhatt said on Saturday. He said that Gujarat and UP govts are in talks to resolve the confusion caused by some "technical issues". (PTI) Update at 4.20pm: Three more Tablighi Jamaat people have been booked by Bhilad police. These persons had gone to Karnataka before the lockdown began and returned on Friday, said Gujarat DGP. He also warned people not to travel out of district or state without following central guidelines. The DGP said two trains will be leaving from Ahmedabad to UP and one from Surat to Odisha with migrant labourers. He said first preference has been given to those migrant who were staying in shelter homes .Update at 3.45pm: People gathering to board 'sharamik special' train from Ahmedabad to Agra. The train departs at 4 pm today. *ANI update at 2:20pm: A school in Rajkot's Pardi area opened today and around 100 students attended the school to take their test results amid Covid-19 lockdown. K D Padariya, Chairman Zilla Panchayat Samiti, Rajkot says, "Investigation is underway & person responsible will be punished". *Update at 2.15pm: AMC has created additional 300 bed Covid care centres in Gomtipur, Jamalpur and near Pirana for the treatment of coronavirus positive patients. *Update at 2.10pm: AMC has decided hotel facilities for Covid care warriors if they are tested positive and have mild or are asymptomatic. This facility will also be given to the police staff on Covid-19 duty. *To reduce the burden on hospitals, Covid-19 care centres are being set up and permission is being given for self-isolation at home in Gujarat *The department of health has initiated a project named ‘Tele Monitoring Programme’ to provide guidance to critical Covid-19 patients in Gujarat. * Update at 1.45pm: AMC has given free mask to 27,000 vendors. The civic body has collected a fine of Rs 7 lakh from shopkeepers and the roadside vendors for not wearing masks: Vijay Nehra, municipal commissioner *Gujarat administration will meet on Saturday to decide on various aspects of the Union government notification and how they will be implemented in the state even as stage three of the lockdown begins from May 4. *Update at 1.20pm: Jamalpur, Walled city have more than 30% of the death as there were mass lockdown violation, says civic chief. *Update at 12.50pm: We should follow the rules and stay indoor and not get out of the houses till it is required: Municipal commissioner *Update at 12.30pm: If all the citizens follow lockdown norms for the next 14 days then we will get good results, says Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra *262-bed Covid-19 facility at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute. *Vendors in Ahmedabad fined Rs 3.81 lakh for not wearing masks *An Amul Parlour in Bodakdev was sealed after the staff refused to pay the penalty for not wearing masks and not having sanitizers.  *Update at 10.48am: Six test positive for Covid-19 in Bhavnagar; total 56 cases, five deaths reported so far. *Ahmedabad so far has conducted 25,996 laboratory tests and 2,038 tests through kits. Thus with 28,034 tests, the city has conducted 4,672 test per million people. *PTI Update at 9.22am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336: Union health ministry *22 people lost the battle and succumbed taking the total death toll to 236 in Gujarat. *Ahmedabad continued to reel under the unabated attack of Coronavirus as it recorded 16 or 73% of the 22 deaths. *Three more wards — Saraspur, Gomtipur and Asarwa — were added to the ‘red zone’ in Ahmedabad, taking the total of such wards to nine. Khadia, Jamalpur, Danilimda, Behrampura, Shahpur and Dariapur were earlier classified as red zones. *As the lockdown got extended second time, the analysis of earlier two phases of lockdowns for Gujarat reveal that compared to lockdown 1 (March 25 to April 15), lockdown 2 (April 15 to May 3) recorded multiplication of cases by 5.7 times for the data available till April 30. Similar comparison for pre-lockdown to lockdown period shows cases rising 19 times. *Gujarat recorded 326 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Friday. The cases included 267 from Ahmedabad, 26 from Surat, 19 from Vadodara, 6 from Mahisagar and 3 from Panchmahal. Banaskantha, Botad, Gandhinagar, Kutch and Patan recorded one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coronavirus-in-ahmedabad-latest-news-updates-on-ahmedabad-corona-cases-deaths-2-may-2020/articleshow/75499853.cms||---
May 2, 2020||India||Alcohol shops to open, but with distancing norms||NEW DELHI: Shops selling liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco will have to ensure minimum six feet distance (‘do gaj ki doori’) from each other and also make sure that not more than five people are present at one time at the shop, according to the ‘national directives for Covid-19 management’. The home ministry on Friday allowed all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes to remain open in urban areas without any distinction of essential and non-essential. All shops in rural areas, except in malls, are also permitted to remain open, the guidelines said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alcohol-shops-to-open-but-with-distancing-norms/articleshow/75499123.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Lucknow. Update at 11.08pm: Betel leaf farmers in Uttar Pradesh are incurring losses as they are unable to sell their products during the nationwide lockdown in wake of COVID-19. "Betel leaves are decaying in the field as their demand has stopped and they can not be stored. It is a perishable commodity and we can not restore it. I am losing a source of income. I have suffered a loss of Rs 40,000," Ashish Chaurasia, a farmer in the Nigoha area of Mohanlalganj told ANI. Update at 10.15pm: To enforce the coronavirus lockdown, police conducted a flag march in Ghaziabad on Saturday. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said orders were issued to all circle officers and SHOs to hold a flag march in sensitive areas to restrict the unwanted movement of people and initiate strict action against those violating the lockdown. (PTI) Update at 9.20pm: 159 more people have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh today, taking total number of cases to 2487. Out of the total cases, 698 patients have been cured while 43 others lost their lives due to the infection, ANI quotes Uttar Pradesh health department Update at 8.20pm: The first special train bringing migrant workers back to Uttar Pradesh from outside the state will arrive here on Sunday and talks are on with officials of many states to ensure their return, said an official. (PTI )Update at 7.30pm: Four people, including three women, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to 159, officials said. Update at 6.35pm: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the patience of a person is his greatest friend in the disaster. So follow the lockdown with patience, it will be beneficial for the country, he said. (IANS) Update at 5.50pm: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to firm up a plan to provide employment to nearly 20 lakh people in the state after studying the Centre's advisory on lockdown and the permitted economic activities amid it. (PTI) Update at 5pm: Hundreds of migrants from Surat who are on their way to UP were left stranded in transit despite necessary permissions, as UP govt is not allowing entry of their buses, Surat Police Commissioner RB Brahmbhatt said on Saturday. He said that Gujarat and UP govts are in talks to resolve the confusion caused by some "technical issues". (PTI) Update at 4.20pm: The first special train for Uttar Pradesh has started from Nashik (Maharashtra) today morning and around 845 labourers and workers have boarded the train. They will reach Lucknow tomorrow: Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi. (ANI) *Update at 3.30pm: A BJP activist was booked in UP's Muzaffarnagar district for the violation of the coronavirus lockdown, police said on Saturday. According to police, Sunita Malik was found wandering without a mask on a scooter in the Kotwali police station area on Friday. (PTI) * Update at 1.58pm: A special train with 847 migrants departed for Lucknow from Nashik in Maharashtra around 10 am on Saturday, says Central Railway * ANI update at 11.14am: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath holds a Covid-19 review meeting in Lucknow with chairpersons of 11 committees * ANI update at 10.18am: Grocery shops and other outlets selling essential items will open from Monday in Varanasi according to a roster system, said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. This comes after the lockdown was extended beyond May 4 amid surging Covid-19 cases in the country. * Update at 10.01am: Seven labourers who had arrived from Maharashtra via Jhansi in government buses to Basti, have tested positive for Covid-19, reports ANI quoting DM Basti * Update at 9.21am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 1,218; number of cases climb to 37,336, says Union health ministry * ANI update at 9.03am: Out of the 865 samples tested yesterday for Covid-19, results of 14 are positive, says King George's Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow * Update at 7.30am: 22 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Agra, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 501, reports ANI quoting DM Agra Prabhu N Singh *The novel coronavirus-induced lockdown that has struck a blow to economic activities across the country, is also set to hit the grassroots-level democracy in the state. Any decision by the government to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 would jeopardise elections to nearly 59,000 village panchayats in UP. *Five days after a video of the inhumane treatment meted out to quarantined inmates at a private college in Agra went viral, this facility at Sikandra is now being converted into an isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-in-lucknow-latest-news-updates-on-lucknow-corona-cases-deaths-2-may-2020/articleshow/75500121.cms||---
May 2, 2020||World||US allows use of 1st drug shown to help virus recovery||WASHINGTON: US regulators on Friday allowed emergency use of the first drug that appears to help some Covid-19 patients recover faster, a milestone in the global search for effective therapies against the coronavirus. The Food and Drug Administration cleared Gilead Science's intravenous drug for hospitalized patients with "severe disease," such as those experiencing breathing problems requiring supplemental oxygen or ventilators. President Donald Trump announced the news at the White House alongside Gilead CEO Daniel O'Day and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Stephen Hahn. "This was lightning speed in terms of getting something approved" said Hahn, calling the drug "an important clinical advance." The FDA acted after preliminary results from a government-sponsored study showed that the drug, remdesivir, shortened the time to recovery by 31%, or about four days on average, for hospitalized Covid-19 patients. Those given the drug were able to leave the hospital in 11 days on average vs. 15 days for the comparison group. The drug may also help avert deaths, but that effect is not yet large enough for scientists to know for sure. Dr. Sameer Khanijo, a critical care specialist, said he wants to see additional studies to clarify the drug's benefit. "I don't think this is a cure yet, but I think it's starting to point us in the right direction," said Khanijo of North Shore University Hospital in New York. "As a society it's nice to have something that will help stem the tide of this disease." The FDA said preliminary results from the government study warranted Friday's decision, though regulators acknowledged "there is limited information known about the safety and effectiveness of using remdesivir." The drug's side effects include potential inflammation of the liver and problems related to its infusion, which could lead to nausea, vomiting, sweating and low blood pressure. Information about dosing and potential safety issues will be provided to physicians and patients, the FDA said. The National Institutes of Health's Dr Anthony Fauci said Wednesday the drug would become a new standard of care for severely ill Covid-19 patients. Remdesivir, which blocks an enzyme the virus uses to copy its genetic material, has not been tested on people with milder illness. The FDA authorized the drug under its emergency powers to quickly speed the availability of experimental drugs, tests and other medical products during public health crises. In normal times the FDA requires "substantial evidence" of a drug's safety and effectiveness, usually through one or more large, rigorously controlled patient studies. But during public health emergencies the agency can waive those standards and require only that an experimental treatment's potential benefits outweigh its risks. Gilead has said it will donate its currently available stock of the drug and is ramping up production to make more. It said the US government would coordinate distribution of remdesivir to parts of the country that need it most. No drugs are currently FDA-approved for treating the coronavirus, and remdesivir will still need formal approval. The FDA can convert the drug's status to full approval if Gilead or other researchers provide additional data of remdesivir's safety and effectiveness. "This is a very, very early stage so you wouldn't expect to have any sort of full approval at this point," said Cathy Burgess, an attorney specializing in FDA issues. "But obviously they want to get this out to patients as quickly as possible." The FDA previously allowed narrow use of a malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, for hospitalized patients who were unable to take part in ongoing studies of the medication. Trump repeatedly promoted it as a possible Covid-19 treatment, but no large high-quality studies have shown the drug works for that and it has significant safety concerns. The FDA warned doctors late last month against prescribing the drug outside of hospital or research settings, due to risks of sometimes fatal heart side effects. The agency made the announcements after receiving new reports of injury and death with the medication, which is also used to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Two small studies published Friday add to concerns about hydroxychloroquine. Critically ill Covid-19 patients given the pill-based drug were prone to heart rhythm problems, and for many risks mounted when it was combined with an antibiotic, the studies found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-allows-use-of-1st-drug-shown-to-help-virus-recovery/articleshow/75500198.cms||---
May 2, 2020||World||Hong Kong police use pepper spray to clear May Day protest||HONG KONG: Hong Kong police used pepper spray Friday night to disperse more than 100 protesters singing and chanting pro-democracy slogans in a shopping mall. The demonstrators sang the protest anthem "Glory to Hong Kong" and chanted "Glory to Hong Kong, revolution of our times" in the New Town Plaza mall in Hong Kong's New Territories. As the protesters gathered, police stopped and searched some and later told them to leave, saying they were violating coronavirus social-distancing rules. The police then used pepper spray while dispersing the crowd before cordoning off the atrium of the mall. The protest was one of several small ones that went ahead on the May 1 Labor Day holiday despite rules that forbid public gatherings of more than four people. Protesters also gathered near Kowloon's Mong Kok and Kwun Tong subway stations. Organizers initially planned citywide protests but many were canceled, with the organizers urging people to eat at pro-democracy restaurants instead to support them as business slumps because of coronavirus-related restrictions. Friday's protests were the latest in a string of demonstrations at shopping malls over the past week. They follow the arrest of 15 pro-democracy activists and former lawmakers last Saturday. The demonstrations are a continuation of a movement that began last June to protest an extradition bill that would have allowed detainees in Hong Kong to be transferred to mainland China. Although the bill was later withdrawn, the demonstrations continued for months before a lull starting in January as the coronavirus pandemic broke out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/hong-kong-police-use-pepper-spray-to-clear-may-day-protest/articleshow/75500209.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500276.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500272.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500273.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500277.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500274.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500203.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu govt clueless on Tamils stranded in other states||CHENNAI: Launching portals seems to be the only way known to the state government to take a headcount of Tamils stuck in any part of the world. After launching one such portal for gathering information about Tamils working abroad, the government is all set to launch another portal, probably on Saturday, to gather information about people from Tamil Nadu stuck in other states in the country. It is too much to expect all the stranded peopletobeeducated and net savvy. Will all of them have smart phones to log into such portals and register their personal details, seeking help, is another question. Without any credible information on hand to make preparations for accommodating Tamil Nadu people likely to return from various parts of the country to the home state, the government has got school and college buildings readied as quarantine centres in most districts. All those who return would be accommodated in government-run quarantine centres for a stipulated period, before they are declared free from infection. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash, in an order issued on April 28, asked the district administration to take over government and private school buildings to accommodate people in case of emergency. After additional chief secretary Atulya Misra was designated as nodal officer for handling migrant labour issues, (both for people from other states working in Tamil Nadu and Tamils working in other states) his office has received 82 calls in just four hours from people seeking help to return to Tamil Nadu. He has assigned the task of collating details to one of his staff and has given his number – 9486536495 – for people to contact for help. Except some anecdotal information like a group of cable-laying workers from Villupuram stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, and about100-odd traders from Kovilpatti, who had gone to Mumbai to sell sarees, there is no credible and specific information about people wanting to return to Tamil Nadu. “About 260 of us came from Villupuram four months ago. We struggled without food for many days during the initial phase of the lockdown. We are desperate to return to our villages,” said 35-year-old V Arockiyasamy of Kandachipuram in Villupuram district, who is now stranded at Mahim in Mumbai. Until the Villupuram labourers sent SOS through social media, the EPS government was unaware of their plight and deplorable living conditions away from home. “A week ago, I sent mails to TamilNadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK leader M K Stalin and all MPs in the state with specific details of 4,000-odd Tamils stranded in different parts of Maharashtra. I have not received any response from anyone so far,” said Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam. A humanitarian crisis is looming large, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-govt-clueless-on-tamils-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75500275.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Mumbai. *Update at 11.11pm: Thane district in Maharashtra recorded 97 coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the count to 1,108, with Navi Mumbai accounting for 39 of the new cases, health officials said. (PTI) *Update at 11.09pm: With 790 persons testing positive on Saturday, 547 of them in Mumbai, the number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra reached 12,296, while the death toll due to the pandemic reached 521 with 36 new deaths. (PTI) *Update at 9.16pm: The Maharashtra government on Saturday asked district administrators to demarcate containments areas within red and orange zones earmarked by the Centre in connection with the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Saturday. (PTI) *Update at 8.23pm: 26 deaths, 1008 new Covid-19 cases registered in Maharashtra on Saturday. With these new cases, the total tally in the state reaches to 11,506 while total death toll is 485. *Update at 8.02pm: Strict lockdown in MMR, Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and Malegaon Municipal Corporation areas, says Maharashtra government. *Update at 8.01pm: Dharavi records 89 cases on Saturday; total in the area reaches 496 including 18 deaths. *Update at 6.22pm: The Maharashtra government said on Saturday that in the cities with police commissionerates, a concerned deputy commissioner of police (DCP) will have the power to allow inter-state or inter-district journey. But the movement of people will not be allowed between the areas under Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority and other parts of the state during lockdown, it said.(PTI) *Update at 5.17pm: The Indian Navy will hold a salutation ceremony in Mumbai and Goa on Sunday to honour the efforts of coronavirus warriors in curbing the spread of Covid-19. (ANI) *Update at 4.41pm: Medical doctors and police personnel walk down the Dharavi khumbarwada for the temperature check up for residents in Mumbai. *Update at 4.11pm: Mumbai police issue guidelines on how the migrants form have to be filled and the further procedures to travel *Update at 3.47pm: Bandra residents file SLP before Supreme Court against Bombay HC order which permitted burial of Covid-19 positive bodies in three Muslim cemeteries. *Update at 3.46pm: 55 Covid-19 patients discharged in a day today from Bhimsen Joshi hospital in Bhayander today including a 3-year-old girl. Update at 2.55pm: The BEST conductor, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 18, his second test turns out negative. The conductor discharged from hospital today. Update at 1.40pm: Migrants flout social distancing norms in Andheri Mumbai: Migrants flout social distancing norm at Andheri Seepz#SocialDistancing #Covid19 #CoronavirusPandemic… https://t.co/hL3lOvTPau— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1588405588000Update at 12.30pm: Policeman lathicharges a youth who was reportedly roaming on road without any purpose in Dharavi area. Update at 11.54am: Mumbai Police have registered an FIR against one person for allegedly assaulting a police team while it was on Covid-19 related enforcement duty in Kurla Pipeline area on April 29. Police are yet to arrest the accused. (ANI) Update at 10.50am: A 55-year-old Mira Road man dies of Covid-19; three test positive in Mira-Bhayander. Update at 10am: Total number of Covid-19 positive cases in India rises to 37,336 including 26,167 active cases, 9,950 cured/discharged/migrated and 1,218 deaths, says Ministry of health and family welfare. * Maharashtra records 1,008 cases in a day, Mumbai 751, both new national highsA day after breaching the 10,000 mark, Maharashtra added 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day addition so far for it and for any other state in the country and the first-ever four-digit rise in the state’s 24-hour count since the outbreak began in March. Mumbai continued to be the biggest contributor with 751 cases, its highest singleday addition as well. Mumbai, in fact, contributed to 74% of the total cases in Friday. The total tally of cases for the state now is 11,506 and for the city is 7,812. * 26% of 447 state victims had no health conditionThe share of individuals with no underlying health conditions succumbing to Covid-19 has been steadily rising in the state. An analysis of 447 deaths by the medical education department on Friday showed that 26% of the victims didn’t have any comorbid conditions such as diabetes or hypertension. About two weeks ago when there were 178 deaths, this share was around 19%. * Govt: No intra-state migration from Mumbai, Pune till containment zone limits markedThe Maharashtra government on Friday reiterated that migrants will continue to return home by road, but the state will neither bear the cost nor organise buses. It will also be a while before migrants from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune can move to other districts within the state. * 29 families account for 25% of total Covid-19 cases in DharaviThe BMC, which has undertaken a vulnerability analysis of Dharavi area where the number of Covid-19 cases has been on a steady rise, has found that 29 families have 97 of the total 369 coronavirus patients or about 25% of the total cases. * BMC calls in 100% staffers, will put them up in starred hotelsBMC chief Praveen Pardeshi has asked all ward officers to convince star hotels and lodges in their jurisdiction to house civic employees involved in essential services. Many such employees travel to work from faraway areas of neighbouring districts. Earlier, the Taj group had offered its five-star hotels to house BMC staff involved in Covid-19-related work. But since BMC wanted the services for many more days, they decided to pay the group Rs 2,000 as charges per day per room shared by two persons; the charges included food and laundry services. Many other hotels came forward to help the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-in-mumbai-latest-news-updates-on-mumbai-corona-cases-deaths-2-may-2020/articleshow/75500262.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chennai||14 who stopped Chennai doctor’s burial held under Goondas Act||CHENNAI: The city police commissioner on Friday ordered 14 people detained under the Goondas Act for stopping the burial of the doctor who died of Covid-19 on April 20. Two Chennai corporation engineers and ambulance crew members were also attacked at Anna Nagar during the incident. The Anna Nagar police booked cases against 90 residents and arrested 21 people including a woman and they were remanded in Puzhal prison. Police personnel are searching for the remaining 69 people based on the video recordings and photos collected from the television channels, which telecasted the protests. Police booked attempt to murder case apart from other serious Sections of IPC against Annamalai and 20 others including a woman for attacking assistant executive engineer Kalaiyarasan, executive engineer Senthil Kumar and the ambulance crew members – Anand and Damodaran, who suffered injuries in the assault. Police slapped a case under IPC Sections 307 (attempted to murder), 332 (preventing to discharge the duty of a government servant), apart from 147 (riot), 148, 324 (attacking with sticks), 294 (B) (abusing), 506 (II) (criminal intimidation), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) IPC and Section 3 of TNPPDL Act. A day after that, Chennai City Police commissioner warned that if such incidents are to take place violators will be detained under Goondas Act. On Friday, the Chennai city police commissioner A K Viswanathan ordered to detain 14 people arrested in the rioting case under the Goondas Act. Those who are detained under the Goondas Act are identified as P Annamalai, 32, A Anandaraj, 33, N Gopinath, 42, M Kadhar Moideen, 48, R Mani, 32, K Manikandan, 30, K Nagendran, 29, K Paulraj, 34, K Sangeetha Rajan, 25, A Shankar, 28, D Saarangapani, 38, K Somasundaram, 24, S Vijay, 26, U Nirmala, 38.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/14-who-stopped-chennai-doctors-burial-held-under-goondas-act/articleshow/75500308.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, administration helps end boycott of cured man||DHARAMSHALA: The Kangra district administration has come to the rescue of a 33-year-old man, who was among the first Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, to help end the social boycott that he and his family faced even after he got cured of the virus and completed the quarantine period. Sources said people of Lunj village of Kangra district had been avoiding any social contact with his family. Even shopkeepers were not dealing with them, because to which revenue officials of the area were directed to drop all the essential commodities to their home. The boycott forced the administration to step in. Kangra sub-divisional magistrate Jatin Lal visited his home on Wednesday and greeted him with flowers to give a social message to the people. “The family can now go out to get essential items in Kangra,” said the SDM. The SDM’s visit has helped ease the situation for the family. The man had arrived from Singapore on March 18. He had gone himself to the doctors and was later found positive. On April 27, he completed his quarantine period and informed the authorities. His pregnant wife and mother and other family members too completed their quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-himachal-pradesh-administration-helps-end-boycott-of-cured-man/articleshow/75500370.cms||Shri Puri
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus outbreak: Jamia tells students in hostels to return home||NEW DELHI: Jamia Millia Islamia issued a notice to its students on Friday, asking those staying at the hostels to vacate the premises as the university is in proximity to major containment zones like Zakir Nagar. The Jamia administration told students that the university will only open in August and the new academic session will start only from September. The exam schedule for July will also be changed. “At the moment for all purposes the university is closed and library and other institutional facilities are closed in view of lockdown,” the order said. The administration told the students to contact the provost of the institution that will make the arrangements for their travel back home. Many students have been stuck at the varsity since the lockdown was put in place. “It is difficult for the university to maintain logistics and manpower requirements in future. The hostels are require sanitisation, and maintenance . Therefore, the hostels are completely vacated completely,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-outbreak-jamia-tells-students-in-hostels-to-return-home/articleshow/75500383.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government doubles ration quota for May||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to double the quantity of free ration — 10kg instead of the usual five — given through the public distribution system (PDS) this month. Besides 71 lakh regular beneficiaries linked to 19 lakh ration cards, over 30 lakh additional people are getting free items — wheat, rice and daal — through e-cards issued since the lockdown has started in March end. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the free ration amount was increased to 7.5kg. Announcing the step on Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also said the government would provide kits with other kitchen essentials along with the ration items. The decision to increase the ration amount was taken after various incidents of hardship faced by the beneficiaries, especially migrants and daily wage labourers working in the unorganised sector, came to light, said a source. Due to the lockdown, small factories and shops dealing in non-essential items have been shut. The kitchen essential kit, whose distribution has started with the May ration, includes one litre refined oil, 1kg each of chhole/chana, sugar and salt, turmeric, coriander and chili powder 200 gram each, and two 60-75gm soap bars. The government has taken the decision after getting to know that the PDS beneficiaries are finding it difficult to buy these products, usually costlier than regular ration items, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-doubles-ration-quota-for-may/articleshow/75500413.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Students in Panjab university hostels can go home after getting e-passes||CHANDIGARH: The Panjab university advisory committee has asked the dean student welfare (DSW) to chalk out a plan so that hostellers could go back to homes by obtaining e-passes from the nodal officers. Sources said in the past two days, around five students went back to their homes by obtaining e-passes from the nodal officer of their area in Punjab and Haryana. Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the advisory committee, said the DSW has been asked to tell hostellers to register themselves for e-passes and they only have to give in writing about their destination to the warden after they get their e-passes and can leave the campus. Sources said another issue which the university is facing is to run hostel mess as the contractors are facing huge losses as they have to purchase stuff from vendors instead of bulk from the Sector 26 grain market. Emanuel Nahar, DSW, said all the wardens have been asked to prepare a list of students who want to go home so that the nodal officer of their area can be contacted by the university authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-in-panjab-university-hostels-can-go-home-after-getting-e-passes/articleshow/75500398.cms||Aarti Kapur
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Female cop rescues a woman in labour||CHENNAI: A woman police inspector, Bhuvaneshwari, attached to the Thiruvottiyur police station, rescued a woman struggling with labour pain at Sathuma Nagar and took her to the RSRM hospital at Royapuram. The woman gave birth to a boy at the hospital. The doctors who treated the woman informed police that both the woman and the newborn are stable and healthy. The doctors said that they would examine the mother and child for coronavirus infection too after they are shifted to the normal ward. Police inspector Bhuvaneshwari, who was on patrolling duty at Sathuma Nagar, found residents on the road in panic, as they were expecting an ambulance to arrive and send P Kalaivani, who was battling labour pain, to the hospital. Bhuvaneshwari rushed to her house in Udaya Suriyan Nagar in Thiruvottiyur. As the woman cried in pain, the inspector decided to take the woman in the police vehicle to the hospital. Bhuvaneshwari took the woman to the RSRM government maternity hospital in Royapuram, where the woman delivered the baby. Bhuvaneshwari said, “It was a crucial time as I had to take an immediate decision. As a woman, I felt her pain and rushed her to the hospital. Due to lockdown, I managed to reach the hospital within 15 minutes and rescued both the mother and child.” The family members of Kalaivani appreciated the woman cop for taking the brave decision to rescue them both. Washermenpet deputy commissioner of police G Subbulakshmi called on the woman inspector and commended her efforts to extend her support during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-female-cop-rescues-a-woman-in-labour/articleshow/75500395.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Vehicle owners endure long wait as cops delay process||BENGALURU: Thousands of citizens started lining up outside police stations at first light on Friday to get their vehicles that were seized during the lockdown, but after a long wait, most returned disappointed as the process was mired in confusion and delays. Authorities announced on Thursday that the impounded vehicles would be released if two-wheeler and car owners paid a security deposit of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000, respectively. The high court issued an order in this regard. Police stations in Bengaluru either initiated the process, which involves considerable paperwork, late or deferred it to Saturday. “There is no clarity under which head we can generate the receipt of security deposit. May 1 is generally a holiday (in offices), so we decided to wait for Saturday. We will start releasing vehicles once our doubts are cleared by the court or the government,” said a senior police officer from the northeast division. Another officer also cited the same problem. Since March 24, at least 35,000 vehicles have been impounded in Bengaluru, according to the state government’s estimate. Officers of Bengaluru police say the figure is 64,000. On Thursday, the high court allowed police officials to start releasing the vehicles from Friday. The owners will have to make a security deposit, which could be treated as a fine later if adjudicating authority rules that the person had violated lockdown curbs without a genuine need. The owners must execute a bond before a police officer and submit an undertaking that they won’t violate such restrictions again. Fearing a rush, people started queueing up in the morning. But at many places, including RT Nagar and Malleswaram, police began releasing vehicles only in the afternoon. “I came here at 8am and waited for the arrival of police to get my bike back,” said a man at HMT Ground, RT Nagar. It was noon when he spoke to TOI. RT Nagar police said initially, there was confusion over the generation of receipt. “Later, senior officials asked us to collect deposits and issue a receipt, and the procedure was started in the afternoon,” an officer said. SD Sharanappa, deputy commissioner of police (east), directed his station house officers to collect the deposit and keep it in their custody. They were asked to enter the details in the register and wait for further direction from the DCP’s office. At some other stations, police asked vehicle owners to return home, saying an appointment would be confirmed at a later date. “We have not received any directions from our higherups to release vehicles today (Friday). We will inform you as soon as we get the order,” an officer announced outside Mahalakshmi Layout police station around 11.30am. Apart from making a security deposit, vehicle owners must produce the following documents: the original registration certificate (RC) book, driving licence, Aadhaar and insurance papers. The actual owner, i.e. the person whose name appears in the RC book, should visit the police station. “Many people came with RC book which had the previous owner’s name. We had to send such people back. They will have to bring the previous owner here,” an officer said. Meanwhile, a working professional overcame a peculiar problem at Chandra Layout police station. Mamatha’s scooter was seized on April 8 and its key was kept in a bag holding 300 key sets. “Police requested me to look for it in the lot. To save time, I brought the spare key,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-vehicle-owners-endure-long-wait-as-cops-delay-process/articleshow/75500372.cms||Santosh Kumar R B
May 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 18 new coronavirus cases, 1 death||CHANDIGARH: NCR districts of Haryana continue to dominate the Covid-19 positive case tally with 18 more cases and a death reported in the state. This takes the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana to 357 with four deaths till Friday evening. Six persons have been discharged from hospitals, taking the number of discharged persons to 241. Now, there are 112 active cases in various state hospitals. Faridabad recorded eight positive cases and one death while Jhajjar, Gurugram and Sonipat recorded four, three and one case respectively. Sources said an elderly man died in a private hospital of Faridabad on Wednesday evening. His last rites were conducted in line with Covid-19 protocol on Thursday. Deaths were also reported in Ambala, Karnal and Rohtak. Sources said all the eight fresh positive cases are first contacts of positive cases reported in the city over the last four days. With Friday’s count, Faridabad tops the tally with 61 cases, followed by 58 from Nuh and 67 from Gurugram. Those found Covid-19 positive in Gurugram and Sonipat are also said to be close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases reported since Monday. In Jhajjar, Covid-19 postive patients are vegetable suppliers and vendors from Jhajjar city and Bahadurgarh. In Sirsa, the two Covid-19 positive cases are pilgrims who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. They are being treated. More testing facilities have been set up and more persons have completed quarantine. Besides, more people have been booked for violating lockdown. Till Friday, 20,379 out of 35,887 persons completed quarantine at their houses or quarantine centres. Scribes, dy CM negativeAll journalists and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who took the Covid-19 test on Wednesday tested negative. The samples were collected by a team of health workers from MLA Hostel dispensary and civil hospital, Panchkula. The samples were examined at a laboratory in Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital, Karnal. Health minister Anil Vij confirmed the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-records-18-new-coronavirus-cases-1-death/articleshow/75500465.cms||Manvir Saini
May 2, 2020||Mysuru||Mumbai to Mandya: Four of family test +ve after cremating kin||MANDYA: The cremation of an autorickshaw driver a week ago has triggered a controversy as four of his family members who brought the body from Mumbai tested positive on Friday, taking the number of cases in the district to 26. Mandya, which is now in the orange zone, is in danger of slipping into the red after recording 8 new cases. This is the second instance in two weeks in Mandya when the infection trail has led to Mumbai. Deputy commissioner DC Venkatesh said the body of the driver was brought from Mumbai to Kodagahalli near Melukote in a government ambulance on April 24. Doctors had certified that he had died of cardiac arrest and there was no mention of coronavirus in the medical certificates, he said. Prevention protocol was followed: OfficialThe cremation took place in Kodagahalli village near Melukote. About 50 people from the village attended the funeral. The 53-year-old auto driver had been working in Mumbai for the past 15 years. “The man died of cardiac arrest on April 23 and his body was taken to his native village as the family wanted to conduct the last rites there,” Venkatesh said. “He died in a government hospital (VN Desai Hospital) in Santa Cruz and doctors certified that heart attack was the cause of his death. Local officers of Bruhanmumbai Municipal Corporation had issued authorisation letters to transport the body from Maharastra to Karnataka in a government hospital ambulance. The vehicle carrying the body crossed as many as 20 check posts before reaching here,” Venkatesh said. When the ambulance reached Pandavapura taluk on the evening of April 24, the local administration did not allow the body to enter the village but allowed relatives to cremate it outside the village. Asked if the family members were screened before being allowed to enter Karnataka, the DC said there was no laxity on the part of district authorities. “As soon as the ambulance from Mumbai entered the district, all Covid-related protocol was carried out. Family members were quarantined in a hostel,” the DC said. “Though the four were asymptomatic, we made sure to quarantine them.” In all, seven family members were quarantined and their samples sent for testing on April 28. The deceased man’s son, daughter-in-law, daughter and a grandchild tested positive. The DC ruled out the possibility of the infection spreading from the deceased man. “The victim’s wife tested negative. From our enquiries, we know that his son works in the loan department of a bank (in Mumbai) and we suspect that he contracted the infection and passed it on to his family members too. We have written to BMC and hospital authorities in Mumbai seeking details of the death and if family members were tested for Covid-19 before being allowed to travel,” Venkatesh said. Kodagahalli village has been sealed. After testing positive, all four are being treated in the isolation ward in Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences. Authorities are trying to trace those who might have come into contact with the four people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mumbai-to-mandya-four-of-family-test-ve-after-cremating-kin/articleshow/75500349.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Stray dogs maul four-year-old to death in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A four-year-old girl was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs near her house at Pinnelli village in Machavaram mandal of Guntur district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Sheikh Safura. According to Machavaram police sub-inspector Lakshmi Narayana, the incident happened at around 7 in the morning when Safura was playing outside her house. Suddenly, a pack of stray dogs attacked her. By the time locals took note of the incident and chased the dogs away, Safura was bleeding profusely from her neck and hands. She succumbed to her injuries soon after. Police said at least four dogs attacked the girl. Residents said there has been several incidents in the past where dogs have attacked people and children . However, despite multiple complaints to the civic authorities, no action was taken in this regard and people continue to live in fear, especially for their children. Police haven’t registered a case in the incident as no complaint was filed by the parents. Safura’s parents, who work as farm labourers, performed the last rites at a burial ground in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stray-dogs-maul-four-year-old-to-death-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/75500574.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Lab technologists perform high-risk job with diligence in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: They face the risk of contracting Covid-19 every day. But that doesn’t dampen the passion N Ramesh, 47, and R Sudha Suresh, 40 — both junior medical lab technologists at Sir CV Raman General Hospital, Indiranagar — share for their work. They duo is tasked with collecting throat swab samples of primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients for tests. They have collected more than 2,100 samples since March 23 when their hospital was authorised to do the same. The samples are then sent to the virology lab on Nimhans campus; more than two dozen have tested positive till date. The duo dons PPEs at work, but given the risks, they get themselves tested for the virus once a week. Sudha, who is physically challenged due to a polio affliction at birth, was given the option of staying back home during the lockdown. “There is no way I would shirk my work, which is very important during a pandemic. Come what may, I want to serve people,” Sudha says. The contagion has stretched the duo’s working hours and has required them to go beyond their lab. Ramesh remembers the call he got from his hospital’s medical superintendent Dr R Radha Krishna around 7.30pm on April 21 when he was driving home. “We were asked to collect throat swab samples of the 91 accused arrested in connection with the Padarayanapura violence. We had to go to the place where they were lodged,” he says. “Sudha and I later went to RGICD and collected our PPEs and swab kits. We headed to the community hall near Adugodi where the prisoners were kept,” he says, adding: “We were slightly skeptical about how the prisoners would behave because we had learnt they were slightly agitated. But they cooperated.” Encouragement from his advocate-wife and 10-year-old child render his job easy. “My daughters, one 19 and another 22, and my husband are my pillars of strength,” says Sudha. Dr Radha Krishna says the duo’s dedication and meticulousness have helped the hospital deal with the challenges posed by the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lab-technologists-perform-high-risk-job-with-diligence-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75500485.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 2, 2020||Pune||Govt: No intra-state migration from Mum, Pune till containment zone limits marked||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Friday reiterated that migrants will continue to return home by road, but the state will neither bear the cost nor organise buses. It will also be a while before migrants from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune can move to other districts within the state. The government issued an order on Friday stating that intra-state migration from MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal areas will not begin until containment zone boundaries are marked out. Also, no movement will be allowed in and out of containment zone areas. The state has emphasised that migrants seeking to go home need to get permission from nodal officers, like the district collector or deputy commissioner of police. The order also stated that “extreme care” will have to be taken before allowing movement from other hotspots like Malegaon, Solapur, Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Aurangabad and Nagpur. In the case of inter-state movement of migrants from areas where there is a police commissionerate, the DCP will be the nodal officer, the order said. The local police station will collect information about migrants seeking to go home, including their names, phone numbers, Aadhaar numbers and addresses. The state has around 5 lakh migrants in its relief camps and no enumeration of migrants outside the camps. State transport minister Anil Parab said a train will made available for every 1,000 migrant workers who want to return to home and groups of 25 people could apply for a state bus at their own cost. Health minister Rajesh Tope said smaller groups of 4-5 people who want to travel to another state could arrange a private vehicle after getting permission. “The special trains have been planned for people registered by state governments. No one should come to railway stations looking to board these trains. We will allow only those passengers whom state officials will bring to railway stations,” a central government spokesperson said. News of the train ferrying migrants from Nashik to Bhopal was kept guarded and planned from Friday morning, officials said. Nashik station was cordoned off. The passengers were screened at the shelter homes where they were housed and transported by buses to the station before the train departed at 9.30pm. “The doors were locked and escorts provided for the travel. Seats were allotted following social distancing norms,” said Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare. To prevent a repeat of the Bandra incident, there was heavy police bandobast at the station. (Inputs from Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-no-intra-state-migration-from-mum-pune-till-containment-zone-limits-marked/articleshow/75500618.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Mumbai||Govt: No intra-state migration from Mum, Pune till containment zone limits marked||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Friday reiterated that migrants will continue to return home by road, but the state will neither bear the cost nor organise buses. It will also be a while before migrants from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune can move to other districts within the state. The government issued an order on Friday stating that intra-state migration from MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal areas will not begin until containment zone boundaries are marked out. Also, no movement will be allowed in and out of containment zone areas. The state has emphasised that migrants seeking to go home need to get permission from nodal officers, like the district collector or deputy commissioner of police. The order also stated that “extreme care” will have to be taken before allowing movement from other hotspots like Malegaon, Solapur, Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Aurangabad and Nagpur. In the case of inter-state movement of migrants from areas where there is a police commissionerate, the DCP will be the nodal officer, the order said. The local police station will collect information about migrants seeking to go home, including their names, phone numbers, Aadhaar numbers and addresses. The state has around 5 lakh migrants in its relief camps and no enumeration of migrants outside the camps. State transport minister Anil Parab said a train will made available for every 1,000 migrant workers who want to return to home and groups of 25 people could apply for a state bus at their own cost. Health minister Rajesh Tope said smaller groups of 4-5 people who want to travel to another state could arrange a private vehicle after getting permission. “The special trains have been planned for people registered by state governments. No one should come to railway stations looking to board these trains. We will allow only those passengers whom state officials will bring to railway stations,” a central government spokesperson said. News of the train ferrying migrants from Nashik to Bhopal was kept guarded and planned from Friday morning, officials said. Nashik station was cordoned off. The passengers were screened at the shelter homes where they were housed and transported by buses to the station before the train departed at 9.30pm. “The doors were locked and escorts provided for the travel. Seats were allotted following social distancing norms,” said Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare. To prevent a repeat of the Bandra incident, there was heavy police bandobast at the station. (Inputs from Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-no-intra-state-migration-from-mum-pune-till-containment-zone-limits-marked/articleshow/75500616.cms||---
May 2, 2020||Bengaluru||No quarantine, nurses toil in general wards in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Nurses attending to Covid-19 patients at government hospitals in some parts of Karnataka are allegedly being denied the mandatory 14-day quarantine break and deployed in general wards during this period in a serious breach of medical-safety protocol. The Trained Nurses’ Association of Karnataka has remonstrated about the issue, seeking immediate redressal. Doctors and nurses who serve in isolation wards, where patients with coronavirus are treated, must quarantine themselves for 14 days after their stint, which varies from a week to two depending on the hospital and the person’s capacity. They undergo tests to make sure they haven’t contracted the infection from the patients. Even after they test negative, they are asked to take further leave. While the rule is being strictly followed for doctors, who are also provided with accommodation, nurses in some government hospitals in North Karnataka are not being offered the quarantine break or the subsequent leave, an association member alleged. They are directed to continue working by seeing patients in general wards. “This is unsafe for general ward patients. When doctors are sent on strict quarantine leave for 14 days, why are nurses being made to work? It may not be happening in all districts, but it’s a problem in North Karnataka, where there is a severe staff crunch,” the member said. There were also complaints about a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). Nurses in some districts had claimed that instead of PPE, they were provided robes that are generally worn while caring for HIV patients. Last month, a nurse from Mandya wrote to the prime minister’s grievance redressal cell about the lack of PPE kits and sanitisers in a government hospital. The nurse said he was diabetic and aged above 50, which put him at considerable risk. Ideally, he should have been exempted from Covid-19 duty. “Despite all this, I don’t mind working, but there must be proper rotation of work, and accommodation should be provided during the quarantine period,” he wrote. Another nurse from Mandya also raised the issue of protective gear in a letter to the grievance redressal cell. She has been suspended. “Whistle-blowers are being targeted with showcause notices and suspension orders,” said Girijamba Devi, secretary, Trained Nurses’ Association of Karnataka. Dr Om Prakash Patil, director, health department, told TOI he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-quarantine-nurses-toil-in-general-wards-in-karnataka/articleshow/75500587.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Retailers mark up vegetable prices||CHENNAI: The prices of vegetable at the Koyambedu wholesale market came down, but retailers in various neighbourhoods jacked up rates on Friday, when there was a shortage for lemon. For instance, ginger that sold for Rs 70 a kg at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), sold for Rs 40 per 250g (Rs 160 a kg) at Saidapet. The cost of spinach and carrot also doubled, with traders attributing it to the inconvenience in accessing the KWMC. Shafeeq, who has set up a makeshift vegetable shop at Saidapet, said they had to run from pillar to post to access veggies. “I reached Koyambedu at 1am and returned with vegetables by 5am. There are heavy restrictions for entry to (small) traders,” he said. At the KWMC, which is now operating with 200 wholesale shops, prices plunged by Rs 5-Rs 10 as the number of traders visiting shrunk compared to Thursday. While more than 2,000 tonnes of vegetables arrived at KYMC, the demand from traders was less. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said this was reason for the drop in prices. However, lemon, the most sought-after during the summer, is out of stock. “Lemon is sold by about 40 semi-wholesale traders who have downed shutters,” Chandran added. Besides, arrival of ladies’ fingers, sourced in small quantity from farmers at Chengalpet and Tiruvallur, has stopped. Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) member secretary D Karthikeyan in the morning inspected the Koyambedu market to take stock of implementation of social distancing norms and closure of retail shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-retailers-mark-up-vegetable-prices/articleshow/75500602.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 2, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Cake surprise at doorstep for elderly in Navi Mumbai||NAVI MUMBAI: A senior citizen couple here was surprised recently to see smiling police officials at their residence to wish the elderly husband ‘happy birthday’. Navi Mumbai police handed them a cake and sang, while maintaining social distancing. police's sweet way of telling its citizens not to get too anxious about the current situation. Police chief Sanjay Kumar told TOI he had told his administration to ensure all personnel and registered senior citizens, whose birthdays fall during the lockdown, are given cakes to lift their spirits and make senior citizens feel secure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cake-surprise-at-doorstep-for-elderly-in-navi-mumbai/articleshow/75500666.cms||---
