May 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aid migrants, support those who wish to stay, says civic society||PANAJI: Demanding immediate support to migrant workers, civic society members in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there is “a prevailing insensitivity towards these workers who are seen as outsiders”. Activists, trade union leaders and organisations have come together under one umbrella organisation 'Goa People’s Voices: Covid-19 Response' to demand that the state facilitate movement of workers back to their native states and also provide groceries for those of them who wish to remain in Goa. “The workers, including migrant workers, have suffered grave abuse and humiliation at the hands of the state administration,” the letter said. Signed by 58 civic society members and activists, the letter said that the Goa government has “aided and abetted” the discrimination of workers and that many of them have not been provided with food as they are seen as outsiders “hence less worthy of state aid or adequate state aid”. The letter said that many workers are unaware of helpline numbers, travel arrangement to return home, and have not received financial aid, which registered workers have received. The workers also face eviction from rented premises even as their employers delay or deny them wages for the lockdown period. Migrant women, who may choose to travel back to their state, are vulnerable to sexual abuse, the activists said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-aid-migrants-support-those-who-wish-to-stay-says-civic-society/articleshow/75511795.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 3, 2020||Chandigarh||11 test Covid-19 positive in Panipat||CHANDIGARH: In a worrisome development, 11 persons, including four journalists and three women were tested positive for Covid-19 in Panipat on Saturday. Confirmation report of one woman had come during the day, while that of rest 10 patients came during late evening hours. The woman and her kin are already admitted in BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan of Sonipat. All those who are tested positive are in the age group from 17 to 70 years. Civil surgeon Sant Lal Verma told media that the 30 families living near the house of Covid-19 positive woman are quarantined and her colony has been declared a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-test-covid-19-positive-in-panipat/articleshow/75511822.cms||Manvir Saini
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Judges in Khammam are serving the needy during lockdown||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the coronavirus crisis, judges are coming out of their chambers and looking at the kind of lives the less fortunate sections of our society are leading. Following a call given by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, scores of judges from the district judiciary, particularly from the district legal services authorities (DLSAs) are actively involving themselves in the relief operations and assisting the poor and the stranded migrants during the ongoing lockdown period. In Khammam, DLSA secretary and senior civil judge Vinod Kumar came across the problem being faced by 250 Thalassemia-hit children who need a regular blood transfusion. Sankalpa, an NGO has been helping them all these years by collecting blood and giving it to them. After Covid-19 fear crept in and a nationwide lockdown was declared, donors stopped coming forward to the blood camps. Vinod then organized a blood donation camp in the court premises itself and scores of judicial employees, advocates, and policemen themselves came and donated blood for the cause. That saved the children for now. Annam Foundation being run by paralegal volunteer Dr Annam Srinivas Rao has been feeding 350 abandoned children every day for the last four weeks. When he came across 22 aids infected children abandoned by their parents and knew that the NGO Happy Home that has been taking care of them ran short of rice and groceries, Vinod spoke to the Khammam Principal District Judge M Lakshman, district officials and donors and arranged groceries and rice sufficient for two months. DLSA advocate Ramalakshmi has been giving food to the nearly 150 migrant workers sheltered at a shaadikhana in Khammam. She was giving Wheat flour to some north Indian workers because they are unable to stay put with rice. She was getting curries prepared at her home and supplying to them. She also organized four stoves and cylinders and utensils for the workers to make Chapathis for themselves. Similarly, after coming across the heartrending story of 47 mentally retarded children at Mother Theressa orphanage in Illendu of Khammam district, Vinod moved the donors and ensured food, medicines, and medical help too to the children. Scores of such stories are now coming to the fore where DLSAs have been playing an active role in assisting the district administration and mobilizing donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-judges-in-khammam-are-serving-the-needy-during-lockdown/articleshow/75512476.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 3, 2020||India||FCI’s grains stock crosses over 60 million tonnes, govt says enough to meet requirement||NEW DELHI: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) had stock of around 60.6 million tonnes of wheat and rice as on Friday, which the government claimed was enough to meet the requirement under National Food Security Act (NFSA) and to provide free additional grains to the identified poor till June. The Centre is bearing the entire cost of Rs 46,000 crore for providing three months additional foodgrains to the poor for free. Food ministry officials said the FCI has 27.6 million tonnes of rice and another 33 million tonnes of wheat. The government needs nearly 6 million tonnes of foodgrain per month for NFSA and for other welfare schemes. “There is no shortage of foodgrains. We have already allocated grains for the poor under the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna. During the lockdown, 2,337 rail rakes have been used for loading and transferring nearly 6.5 million tonnes of grains. Besides the rail route, grains have been transported by road and by waterways as well,” Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan said. According to official data, a total 12.6 million tonnes have been transported by all modes of transport. Under Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna, the total requirement of foodgrains is estimated to be 10.4 million tonnes of rice and 1.6 million tonnes of wheat. So far 5.7 million tonnes of rice and 7.7 lakh tonnes of wheat have been picked up by states and UTs. The ministry said wheat has been allocated for six states - Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi - and rive has been allocated for the rest of the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fcis-grains-stock-crosses-over-60-million-tonnes-govt-says-enough-to-meet-requirement/articleshow/75512600.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||#CoronaConcerns: For the first time in a century, Tunday Kababs closed during Ramzan||Lucknowites are devoid of enjoying the famous Tunday kebabs and parathe this Ramzan. The famous shop in Chowk, that is frequented by celebrities and localities, is closed these days due to the Coronavirus lockdown. “This is the first time in more than a century that our shop is closed,” says Mohd Usman, the owner. “Even a few years ago when the meat shops had been closed, we had not shut shop. But this year due to the lockdwon, our shops have been closed for the first time in 115 years,” he shares, adding, “We are hoping that the lockdown is lifted soon and we can resume our business.” South Indian actor Nassar also had the Tunday Kababs while shooting for Anubhav Sinha’s Article 15 in the city (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Tunday Kabab has come to be synonymous with Lucknow with each and every celebrity – actor, sportsperson – feasting on the melt-in-the-mouth declicacy when in the city. (BCCL)And it’s not just Tunday of which Lucknowites are being devoid of during Ramzan. Mubeen’s and Rahim, whose kuclhe-nahari form the quintessential breakfast and iftaari for most and also Idris whose biryani is a must-have for anyone visiting Chowk during Ramzan are also closed this time due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronaconcerns-for-the-first-time-in-a-century-tunday-kababs-closed-during-ramzan/articleshow/75510243.cms||Iti Shree Misra
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||11 Covid-19 patients discharged in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: In a big relief for the Chittoor district administration which has been concerting all its efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus, 11 patients were discharged after complete recovery from Sri Padmavathi State Covid-19 hospital here on Saturday. With 80 positive cases so far, Chittoor is among the five districts in AP that has been declared as red zone by the central government. District collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta said that the number of active cases in the district is now 42 and two more patients are slated to be discharged on Sunday. “More than 50 cases are from Srikalahasti municipal corporation limits. We have initiated stringent measures to contain further spread of the virus in Srikalahasti as well as other red zone areas. Cinema halls across the district will remain closed till May 17,” the district collector said. Deputy chief minister K Narayanaswamy and state Panchayat raj minister P Ramachandra Reddy who took part in the district Covid-19 task force meeting on Saturday, expressed confidence that Chittoor will be able to move into orange zone by May 13 if no new cases are reported in the next couple of weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-tirupati/articleshow/75511497.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 3, 2020||India||Culture ministry plans digital museum, documentaries, permanent galleries to mark Satyajit Ray's birth centenary year||NEW DELHI: To mark the birth centenary year of the renowned film maker Satyajit Ray, the ministry of Culture on Saturday launched ‘A Ray of Genius’ - a short film encapsulating the very wide spectrum of Ray’s works across cinema, literature, art and music. The launch marks a series of activities planned by the Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces (DMCS) under the culture ministry as a part of its year-long activities to celebrate Ray. Speaking to TOI, chief executive of DMCS, Raghvendra Singh, said, “Apart from Rabindranath Tagore, Ray can be largely credited for putting India on the World stage. We want the younger generation that has not known him to know about him, which is why we are beginning a series of exercises to celebrate multi-faceted talent.” Apart from the short film that highlights Ray's filmmaking genius and his eclectic achievements across literature, art, music and design and has been curated by professionals from Kolkata and Mumbai, the Culture ministry has also roped in award-winning director Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury and editor Arghya Kamal Mitra, Ray’s son, Sandip, and the Society for the Preservation of Satyajit Ray Archives. The film also features photographs by Ray’s chronicler for three decades, Nemai Ghosh, showcasing the filmmaker at work, and which were sourced with the help of the Delhi Art Gallery. Singh added, “We are in the process of putting together a digital museum on Ray, some more documentary films, multi-city conclaves (when the coronavirus lockdown eases) and a lecture series on the forms and narratives that define Ray’s works. Apart from the virtual exhibition on Ray, the culture ministry is also in the process of readying the ground floor of the Metcalfe Hall in Kolkata, am iconic building recently restored, to set up a permanent exhibition on Ray. On Saturday, the DMCS also launched its Facebook page and YouTube channel of DMCS, which will be the platforms where centenary celebrations of Satyajit Ray will be released from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/culture-ministry-plans-digital-museum-documentaries-permanent-galleries-to-mark-satyajit-rays-birth-centenary-year/articleshow/75512725.cms||Swati Mathur
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||#CoronaCompassionCelebrated footwear designer creates sustainable masks to help those in need||In view of the increased demand for masks amid the coronavirus pandemic, Swati Mehrotra,aBareilly-born footwear designer currently living in Delhi, has started producing non-surgical masks in collaboration with various NGOs. The proceeds from these masks will be used to help those in need. The celebrated footwear designer, who showcased her award-winning concepts and collections at Cannes in 2016-17 , hasearlier won theDada Saheb Falke award, among others, for her entrepreneurial skills and sustainable creations. Trendy, soft, comfortable and stretchable masks made of 100% organic cotton“The idea of entering into sustainable mask-making struck me when I and a group of friends had gone to distribute essentials to the underprivileged in Delhi. I was scared to see people living in extremely unhygienic conditions, without any masks. So, I decided to create masks for them,” Swati says. Her initiative is not just helping those in need of masks but those in need of livelihood as well. A lot of her workers from Bihar and UP, who couldn't go back home due to the lockdown, are now engaged in making masks. “I have a small workshop at home. The masks are ingenuously designed under completely sanitized conditions. They are 100% sustainable as they are made of organic cotton fabric and have zero carbon footprint. The trendy, soft, comfortable and stretchable masks have three layers, fit all sizes and can be washed,” Swati says. She adds, “We have also designed special masks for children, from infants till 7-8 years of age. We’re also creating innovative masks, including ones that can be hanged by your neck with ease and button masks that allow people to eat or drink while wearing them." Swati’s efforts have been a valuable contribution to #maskindia movement. “I’ve been approached by a few shirt designers to collaborate with them for creating designer masks. Most importantly, our efforts to create sustainable masks have been acknowledged and appreciated by the government. It’s a great honour to receive this endorsement from MoS I/C, Labour and Employment Ministry, Santosh Gangwar,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/coronacompassioncelebrated-footwear-designer-creates-sustainable-masks-to-help-those-in-need/articleshow/75512786.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
May 3, 2020||Business||Unsung ONGC 'chingaris' soldier on offshore for record 45 days||NEW DELHI: Priyanka Patil, Neha Suryavanshi and Kuljeet Kaur Randhawa were buzzing with excitement when their choppers took off for the BPA offshore platform in Bassein and Satellite project, India’s largest gas field 80 kms off the Mumbai coast, from ONGC’s Juhu helibase in the third week of March. It was the first deployment on an offshore platform for the young engineers and they were looking forward to spending 14 days, the standard stint. But little did they realise then that the mesh of steel jutting from the Arabian Sea was going to be their home for the 45 days – and still counting. There are seven other women engineers who are on offshore duty beyond the stipulated period. Newly-married Shrutika Singh, for example, has been on Samudra Sarvekshak, a geotechnical vessel, for 45 days now. Her husband, Gagan Gupta has been on Neelam platform for the same number of days. They are among hundreds of other ONGC engineers, technicians and geologists who opted to continue at their remote or isolated project sites on land after the countrywide anti-coronavirus lockdown was announced. “It was our choice (to continue). We are proud to keep the show going. As ONGCians, this is our contribution to the country. Hum navyug ki nari hain, phool nahi chingari hain (we are new-age women. Not wallflowers but sparks). We are working with the same energy today as we did on the first day,” Priyanka told TOI in a telecon with the BPA platform. “Our first concern was to maintain production. It is a brownfield project. If production stalls, it will be difficult to restore. I said that as the nation’s energy soldiers we cannot abandon our posts. I am happy to say we were all on the same page,” GM production and platform boss K. M Rao said. What prompted them -- and their colleagues elsewhere -- to continue beyond their tenure was to avoid the smallest chance of coronavirus piggybacking on the relief crew and upending operations. Today it is their grit and commitment, combined with the care shown by the management led by chairman Shashi Shanker, that keeps them going. “CMD has held video-conference thrice. Asked every platform about food, PPEs etc. This shows the management is there for us. It gives us the confidence to continue, we feel safe. Our seniors are supportive. Our families are proud of us. That makes us happy," Neha said. “ONGC is like mini-India. Whenever there is a problem, all of us come together to face the odds. We are touched when colleagues at sites tell the chairman and directors to stay safe when we call to enquire about their well-being. They tell us that if the management is safe then they know they will be taken care of and do their job without worry. Our priority is now to relieve them and we are working on it,” Alka Mittal, director (HR) said. Kuljeet said they do miss their families but things have improved after skype was allowed for video chats. "Our families are very supportive. That makes us happy." Priyanka summed up the spirit of an ONGC employee when she said: "Yes, we want to be back with our families. But if it is not possible at the moment, then that's not a problem." According to Mittal, the top priority now is to relieve the crew from these “stressful” posts. In the meantime, the company has established mechanisms to check on each of the employees and connect them with their families. “We began our preparations much earlier. CMD was very clear that nothing is to come before the safety of personnel. The corona protocols were drafted on March 3 and it was issued the next day. By March 6, the senior management had discussed work from home and our IT chief rolled out the safety protocols for laptops of all employees to enable them to work from home. On March 21, the Executive Committee (of directors headed by CMD) had held video conference with field personnel to assure them of all support,” Mittal said. The company is also taking care of families of those posted at remote onland locations or offshore installations. In one instance, the company doctor in Delhi was assigned to the wife of one employee posted at Kakinada, who was expecting, when she had to change her nursing home. The company doctor accompanied her in the ambulance and remained assigned to her. The company also arranged to bring back her husband. According to Mittal, “These are small gestures that bring big solace (to employees)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unsung-ongc-chingaris-soldier-on-offshore-for-record-45-days/articleshow/75512801.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 3, 2020||Amritsar||Pilgrim’s ordeal: Two meals, no sleep||JALANDHAR: Fifty five years old woman from Rampur village in Jalandhar thought that her bad times would come to an end once she was done with the arduous, 55-hour road journey from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, to Punjab — in which she had just two meals and no sleep . But the woman ended up in Jalandhar civil hospital. She, her mother and her sister’s family have tested positive. Distress was clearly palpable when TOI called her. “I have been counting every day for my return home, but now I have landed at the hospital. There is nobody with whom I can talk,” she said. “We left on March 16 and our return tickets were booked for March 23, but before that train service stopped,” she said. She had gone to the hospital on her own. “We did not want police to come to us,” she said. “We feel bad the entire village has been sealed because of us,” said her son. Her sister’s family of three, who accompanied her, are being treated at Kapurthala civil hospital after they tested positive too, while her mother is at quarantine centre in Sultanpur Lodhi. “We started around 9pm on April 24 in a Tempo Traveller, arranged by the gurdwara there, without having dinner and travelled nonstop for 10 hours and then had a stop after entering Madhya Pradesh around 7 next morning. It was at a gurdwara in Bheelwara that we had langar at 3am on April 26 with only brief halts on the way as there was nothing around where we could have food. Throughout the journey, we had no sleep. “After we entered Punjab from Dabwali in the morning of March 27, a Punjab Police team received us and provided us food and treated us well. Then we reached Amritsar, where we were examined and administration arranged a vehicle for dropping us at Phagwara, while my aunt was dropped at Kartarpur,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pilgrims-ordeal-two-meals-no-sleep/articleshow/75512884.cms||IP Singh
May 3, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Nanded returnees fight vilification||JALANDHAR: While experts and the Union health ministry have been issuing advice against stigmatisation of Covid-19 patients, in Punjab it has been has already been normalised. The latest on the receiving end of this vilification campaign are the pilgrims who have returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded of Maharashtra. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director and country’s top pulmonologist Dr Randeep Guleria, on March 23, underlined that attaching stigma to Covid-19 can cause more deaths. “We have to remember it is a disease that is not that serious. Around 90-95% of the people recover. But if we have that stigma and don’t come forward, then we may land up in a situation where because of our delay in treatment, we may have higher mortality,” said Dr Guleria, who is also member of the Union government’s core group of experts. “We were desperate to reach our homes and were having a sigh of relief that we shall be arriving back after long journey by road. However, the way pilgrims have been vilified by a few Hindi channels and several netizens here, I now think we were better stranded there. We are being projected as villains as if we brought coronavirus infection to Punjab. How those arguing against our coming back to our home state would have felt had their relatives been stranded abroad,” said Karamjeet Singh, 27, of Bhullarai village near Phagwara, who is now admitted at isolation ward at civil hospital. He has posted his videos challenging the propaganda against the pilgrims. “Though when we reached Punjab, police treated us very well and provided us food and at the isolation ward at Kapurthala hospital also arrangements are very satisfying but this propaganda had been disheartening,” he said. “The Punjab government should take immediate steps to stop the stigmatisation and should take action against such fellows. When all other states are making arrangements to transport their people back why only we are being vilification,” he said. When several Punjabi netizens started shaming campaign against Punjab’s first Covid-19 casualty Baldev Singh in third week of March, the state government didn’t do much to stop it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nanded-returnees-fight-vilification/articleshow/75512886.cms||IP Singh
May 3, 2020||Goa||Allow greater industrial activities in major economic districts: Confederation of Indian Industry||PANAJI: Instead of classifying geographical areas based on the number of novel coronavirus cases, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) called on the Centre to consider the economic contribution of districts while classifying lockdown zones. Districts with high economic activity should resume all industrial and business operations, including containment zones with highest safety protocols, said CII in a report ‘A strategy note on resumption of economic activities in industrial Areas’ submitted to the Union government. The third phase of lockdown necessitates a focused strategy to minimise economic contraction due to Covid-19, without compromising on efforts to control the contagion. Prioritising districts with heavy presence of economic and industrial activities with continued operations accompanied by strictest precautions can help enterprises to remain financially sustainable while averting job losses,” stated Chandrajit Banerjee, director general, CII. While the protracted lockdown in the country, necessitated by the rapid spread of Covid-19, has helped in controlling the spread of epidemic and given us time to augment medical capacity, it has also caused enormous stress to the financial sustainability of many businesses, said CII in a statement. In its strategy note, CII requested that the top districts should be identified based on variables like their contribution to country’s GDP, or presence of industrial estates & clusters or registration of enterprises in a district. Instead of the current practice of classifying the entire district as a red zone, the CII has suggested the need for classifying zones as Containment, Orange and Green within an industrial district. Economic activities, in varying degrees of relaxation, should be permitted in all areas of this district but health and safety protocols would differ from zone to zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-greater-industrial-activities-in-major-economic-districts-confederation-of-indian-industry/articleshow/75512935.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 3, 2020||Goa||Industries asked to submit data on employees stranded outside Goa||PANAJI: With movement of people across Goa borders permitted by the Centre, local industries have been asked to submit data on their employees who are stranded outside the state so that they can be allowed to return, the state executive committee (SEC) said. The SEC, headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, has asked the health department to develop a testing and quarantine protocol for those returning to Goa. Principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel has asked representatives of industries to collect and prioritise information on the employees who need to return from outside Goa. With some seafarers expected to arrive by sea at Mormugao Port Trust, the port is preparing standard operating protocols (SOP) to receive seafarers. The SEC said that MPT’s SOP needs to be aligned with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, the DG shipping’s SOP and the state government’s protocol. “The SEC advised secretary health to develop a protocol for Covid-19 testing and home quarantine for returnees, as their number would be large as compared to our current capacity. The need was felt for a testing protocol for those arriving by train,” said an officer who was present at the meeting. Health secretary Nila Mohanan suggested that quarantine facilities should be identified in advance to avoid last minute confusion. The SEC asked the collectors in consultation with health secretary to put in place a mechanism for selection of quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industries-asked-to-submit-data-on-employees-stranded-outside-goa/articleshow/75512961.cms||---
May 3, 2020||India||Biggest spurt in Delhi (384), India (2,564) cases; record 99 deaths||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic turned grimmer in Delhi with 384 new cases reported on Saturday, the capital’s highest rise in a single day, even as fresh cases across the country crossed 2,500 for the first time. India also saw 99 deaths from the virus in the past 24 hours, again the highest number reported so far. With the addition of 2,564 cases on Saturday — breaking Friday’s record of 2,333 cases — India’s Covid-19 count stood just 211 short of 40,000. The death toll has risen to 1,320, including a 20-day-old infant who died in Jaipur. On the brighter side, over 10,000 patients have now been declared cured. New cases across India on Saturday touched a new high despite a fall in numbers in Maharashtra, which reported 790 cases, 218 short of Friday’s count. Delhi was not the only state to report a record high number of fresh cases. Tamil Nadu (231), Punjab (187) and West Bengal (127) reported their highest daily rise in cases while Covid infections also surged in Gujarat (333), Uttar Pradesh (159) and Rajasthan (106). Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day toll from the coronavirus infection with 36 more deaths, taking the total deaths in the state to 521. Mumbai alone recorded 27 fresh deaths. Maharashtra also recorded 790, a significant reduction from Friday’s 1,008 cases, which takes its total count of Covid-19 to 12,296. Delhi’s total Covid-19 count has reached 4,122 with the 384 new cases. Three more persons died due to Covid-19 in the state, taking its death toll to 64. A member of the Lokpal, Justice (retired) A K Tripathi, who was recently diagnosed with Covid-19, is among the latest casualties of the viral infection in the state. Gujarat too recorded its highest number of deaths on Saturday with 26 persons succumbing to the disease. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in the state has reached 262. Meanwhile, Gujarat became the second Indian state after Maharashtra to record over 5,000 Covid-19 cases. West Bengal recorded as many as 15 deaths on Saturday, followed by six each in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, three each in Delhi and Karnataka and one each from UP, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana. There have been 26 coronavirus-related deaths in West Bengal in the past two days, taking the state’s toll to 48. Also, 127 new positive cases were reported in the past 48 hours, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 659, a health department bulletin for May 1 and 2 released on Saturday said. Punjab, recorded 187 new cases, 170 of these pilgrims who have returned from Nanded in Maharashtra, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 772. Telangana reported 17 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,061. Nine migrants from Maharashtra were among the 157 who tested positive for coronavirus in UP, taking the state's tally to 2487. Karnataka reported two Covid-19 deaths on Saturday — one of them, an 82-year-old man in Bidar, was a SARI patient — while the number of infections crossed 600 with 12 fresh cases. Andhra Pradesh registered 62 more Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,525. Two journalists in Vijayawada also tested positive. Bihar recorded two Covid-19 deaths and 56 new cases over the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll in the state to four and positive cases count to 481. Eight more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha taking the state’s tally to 157.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biggest-spurt-in-delhi-384-india-2564-cases-record-99-deaths/articleshow/75512976.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi prepares to ease some curbs but RWAs to have say||NEW DELHI: Offices and standalone shops will open in the city and private vehicles will be allowed to ply with some restrictions from Monday. However, whether your maid can help you with the house work will depend on your RWA. RWAs will decide on letting in self-employed persons like plumbers and domestic help between 7am and 7 pm, but barbers will remain barred. The Delhi government has decided to implement all relaxations announced for red zones (all of Delhi) by the MHA. Accordingly, paan shops will open on Monday and some liquor outlets may be allowed. While offices have been allowed to function with 33% staff, cars will have 2 people on rear seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-prepares-to-ease-some-curbs-but-rwas-to-have-say/articleshow/75513001.cms||---
May 3, 2020||India||US OKs remdesivir; India plans trials||The US Food and Drug Administration has allowed emergency use of the experimental anti-viral drug remdesivir, previously used for Ebola, to treat Covid-19 patients even as India is looking to import the drug to kick-start local trials. The drug has delivered encouraging results on Covid patients in need of advanced care and helped quicken recovery. India, which is part of WHO’s solidarity trial on the drug, is exploring options to source it, official sources said. “Around four hospitals have been identified as trial sites and are waiting for ethics committee approval. We are also in the process of enrolling patients for the trial. Trials in India can start as soon as the drug arrives,” a senior official said. Currently there are limited stocks of the drug which is under different trials in various countries. However, with the US FDA authorisation, its demand is likely to go up substantially. “We are working to access the drug for our people and all efforts will be made to make the drug available in India if it proves to be beneficial,” Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, who also heads the government-formed Empowered Group on Emergency Response to Covid-19, told TOI. Experts said though the trial is significant as it is suggestive of reduction in symptomatic time, it cannot be used as a standard treatment because of limited evidence. The need for larger controlled clinical trials, which can demonstrate clear impact on hard clinical end-points, including mortality reduction, remains as search for an effective life-saving cure continues, said Dr K Srinath Reddy of Public Health Foundation of India. On Friday, the US FDA authorised the emergency use of Remdesivir for treatment of Covid-19 after preliminary results from a government-sponsored study in US showed that Gilead Science’s drug shortened the time to recovery by four days— from 15 days to 11 days —in hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Emergency-use authorisation allows products to be used for treatment without full data on their safety and efficacy, which has to be still submitted as trials continue. Remdesivir is the world’s first drug that has offered some evidence of being effective for Covid-19, which has killed more than 2,30,000 people worldwide and infected over three million. “Based on the totality of scientific evidence available to FDA, it is reasonable to believe that Remdesivir may be effective in treating Covid-19, and that, when used under the conditions described in this authorisation, the known and potential benefits of Remdesivir when used to treat Covid-19 outweigh the known and potential risks of such products; and there is no adequate, approved, and available alternative,” said the FDA in the letter. “One trial compared 5-day regimen with 10-day regimen and noted equal clinical recovery time. There was no control group and effect on deaths was not studied. Another trial was randomised, had a control group of standard care, and observed a benefit in reduction of recovery time from severe illness. Impact on death was, however, statistically not significant and hence unproven,” said Dr Reddy. Researchers say other trials like the WHO multi-country solidarity trial will be helpful in establishing the efficacy of the drug. While there are also ‘compassionate use programme’ for Remdesivir, India is not part of it. Compassionate use programme is employing a new, unapproved drug to treat a severely ill patient in a scenario where there is no other treatment available. An official in the drug regulator’s office said for such use there is no drug approval required. However, a clinical management protocol has to be prepared and needs to be approved by ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-oks-remdesivir-india-plans-trials/articleshow/75513012.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Signalled to stop, man takes ASI on curfew duty for ride on car’s bonnet||JALANDHAR: A man and his father were booked for attempt to murder for dragging an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on the bonnet of his car when he tried to stop him at a police check post. Jalandhar commissionerate of police booked the two under provisions of Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act. The incident took place on Saturday and a passer by has made a video of it and the clip has gone viral in various social media platforms. In the video, car was driven for a distance with the ASI on the bonnet and policemen were seen running after it. After some distance, the driver pulled over to the side of the road and at the same time an auto blocked driver’s door. The man was then drawn out and policemen can be seen slapping and abusing him. Jalandhar commissioner of police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused is identified as Anmol Mehmi. He said when he was stopped by a police party at a naka near Milk Bar Chowk, instead of stopping, sped the car and broke the naka. “The speeding car almost ran over ASI Mulkh Raj, who managed to save his life by jumping on to the bonnet of the car,” he said. Bhullar said the accused, a student of a local college, was 20 years old and his father owned an electric appliances shop. The youth was arrested while he and his father Parminder Kumar Mehmi (according to the police, the owner of the car) have been booked under sections 307, 353, 186, 188 and 34 IPC and section 3 (2) Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 Disaster Management Act at Police Station Division Number 6.CP Bhullar said the father was booked as he owned the car. Commissioner Bhullar visited the ASI’s residence in Khichipur village and enquired about his well being and said he would recommend the ASI’s name for Punjab DGP’s disc. Watch Cop dragged on car when asked driver to stop in Punjab||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-signalled-to-stop-man-takes-asi-on-curfew-duty-for-ride-on-cars-bonnet/articleshow/75513053.cms||---
May 3, 2020||India||NHAI, CPWD & pvt contractors worry about manpower crisis||NEW DELHI: Amid reports of some of states urging migrant workers to stay back, government construction agencies such as NHAI and CPWD and even private contractors are concerned over large number of labourers heading for home, which could impact work at sites after the lockdown is lifted. A major transporters entity, AIMTC, on Saturday said migration of drivers and labourers facilitated by the government could result in major manpower crisis in the near future. Several engineers and contractors said if there is large-scale exodus of migrant workers, kick-starting work at sites would get adversely impacted. They said usually when migrant labourers go home, they don’t come before months and now it’s an extraordinary situation. “Labourers who could not go home were ready to take up work rather than sitting idle. They have been expressing desire to meet their family members or be with ailing parents during this time of crisis. Obviously, they would like to return home. But you can’t build roads without labourers,” said a senior executive of a highway construction company. Officials at National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also admitted that once labourers go back to their villages, it’s highly unlikely that they would return in the next three-four months. “You need manpower at the site where work is going on,” said an official. Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari had recently said that bringing back migrant workers will be the toughest task while urging factory owners to give priority to provide work to such persons who play a key role in economic activities in urban centres. He had said both government and private players would have to offer something to keep people back at work sites and bring back those who had left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-construction-agencies-contractors-concerned-over-migrant-workers-heading-home/articleshow/75513061.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||City organisation receives help from Chef Vikas Khanna||On last Sunday, Ratnaboli Ray, one of the key members Anjali — a mental health rights organisation — received a call from Aparna Sen. The actress, an old family friend of the activist, wanted to extend help in this time of pandemic crisis. She also introduced her with chef Vikas Khanna, who, from New York, has built a supply chain of dry rations to different corners of India. Ratnaboli received 20 quintals of rice that, along with other rations, will be supplied in different corners of Bengal to the destitute families of people who suffer from mental health difficulties. “Vikas wanted my recommendations and I thought Ratnaboli and her team were working hard. So I recommended their group to him. He wanted my suggestion because he was duped by some conmen earlier,” Aparna told us. Elaborating their mission, Ratnaboli said, “Now this supply, along with the items we were already providing, will go to different corners of Bengal, including Mathabhanga, Cooch Behar, Siliguri, Purulia and several other corners. We work with marginalised people and help is coming from different quarters. We received a lot of hand sanitizers and masks.” Chef Vikas, who has already sent out more than 500 quintals of dry ration to different orphanages, old-age homes and other organisations, said, “Ratnadi and her likes are doing something great. I am happy that my bit of help will reach a group of marginalised people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-organisation-receives-help-from-chef-vikas-khanna/articleshow/75513080.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 3, 2020||India||Dozen special trains put return of stranded migrants on track||NEW DELHI: The railways on Saturday operated over a dozen Shramik specials originating from different stations to transport stranded migrant labourers, students and tourists back to their homes. The final number of trains, said sources, could be higher with a total of 20 trains scheduled to carry roughly 20,000 passengers. Five trains operated on Friday, the day railways launched the point-to-point train service for passengers who are identified by the state government concerned. “We will increase the numbers of such trains in the next few days and these will be run daily till there is demand. On Saturday, we had planned to run nearly 40 trains. But the states needed to identify passengers and deploy transport facilities to the exact location. They also needed to ready the facilities for health check-up and quarantine,” said a railway official. Some of the routes on which trains operated on Saturday included Kota-Dhanbad, Nasik-Lucknow, Vasai Road-Gorakhpur, Bhiwandi-Gorakhpur, Sabarmati-Kanpur, Ahmedabad-Agra, Surat-Behrampur, Ernakulam-Danapur, Tirur-Danapur, Kozhikode-Dhanbad, Thiruvananthapuram Central-Hatia and Calicut-Dhanbad. Railway officials said almost all the trains originated from Southern, Central, Western and South Western zones. “Zonal railways have been empowered to run these trains as per the demand of state administrations. Local district magistrates and divisional railway managers are coordinating for running such trains,” the railway officer said. Demands for trains are expected to rise in the next few days and will gradually reduce as more commercial, manufacturing and other activities start in safe zones which should help keep back workers, said the official. “Still there may be some people who would need to return home. We will run trains as per requirement,” he said. The railways have about 20,000 sleeper coaches, which are ready for use. On the issue of who pays for the tickets, a railway official said the sending state – from where the train originates -- will pay to railways on behalf of the passengers and bulk tickets are issued. “The states will decide whether they pay or recover from passengers. We are not dealing with this issue since the trains are being run only after getting request from originating and destination states,” he added. TOI has learnt that the Rajasthan government had paid for the tickets of all passengers from Jaipur to Patna and in the case of Kota to Hatia, the ticket amount was borne by the Jharkhand government and passengers. The officials also said once a train reaches the destination, it’s sanitised and locked. The train returns to the originating station where it is sanitized again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dozen-special-trains-put-return-of-stranded-migrants-on-track/articleshow/75513081.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 3, 2020||India||Reverse migration: Workers’ exodus spells chaos, strains states||The sheer scale of the reverse migration that was on a leash until a few days ago started to unravel on Saturday as the first “Shramik Special” trains carrying a few thousand lucky migrant workers reached their destinations while millions of others — 40 lakh in Gujarat and Maharashtra alone — scrambled to register for evacuation, attempted to sneak out on their own or massed on borders. In Gujarat, desperation spawned violence and chaos along the inter-state borders after police prevented thousands of migrant workers from leaving. Stranded without food and cash, some resorted to stone-pelting at border checkpoints in Dahod, bordering MP, and Shamlaji on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border in Aravalli district. Violence was also reported on the outskirts of Vadodara, where nearly 2,000 people defied orders to return. One migrant worker suffered a head injury in a clash with police while two others were injured when cops baton-charged a mob at Jarod near Vadodara. At least four buses carrying nearly 200 migrants from UP were forced to return to Surat from Dahod despite the travellers claiming to have valid transit passes. Dahod collector Vijay Kharadi, however, said no such permission had been given. Of the 20 lakh migrants waiting to leave Gujarat, the majority are from UP (5.5 lakh), Bihar (3.8 lakh), Odisha (3.5 lakh) and MP (3 lakh). The total also includes 11,000 people from Nepal, according to data collated from reports sent by the collectors of all 33 districts. Maharashtra, too, witnessed a rush to register for inter and intra-state transit passes a day after the first migrant train departed from the state and police stations in cities were authorised to accept applications for travel. The 94 police stations in Mumbai alone received 15,000 applications. The state disaster control room got 7,000 requests via email. Many, though, were unhappy about the cumbersome application process and the fact that they would have to foot the bill to go home despite a loss of livelihood during the lockdown. As word got out that a train might leave from Bhiwandi on the outskirts of Thane to UP’s Gorakhpur with 1,200 passengers late on Saturday, a 5,000-strong crowd gathered at the station in the evening. Cops and district officials had to convince them to leave, police sources said. Maharashtra has an estimated 15-20 lakh migrant population, of whom around five lakh are in relief camps. The Ratanpur checkpoint on Rajasthan’s border with Gujarat witnessed snaking queues of migrant workers waiting for their turn to register and be screened before the onward journey home by bus. The inter-state border was opened on April 26 for those coming from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and MP with valid transit passes. Watch Special train with migrants from UP leaves Mumbai for Gorakhpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/workers-exodus-spells-chaos-strains-states/articleshow/75513083.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Poor should not go hungry, say parties||PATNA: Even as opposition parties in the state on Saturday welcomed the extension of lockdown by the Centre up to May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus, they also maintained that the central and state governments should increase testing for Covid-19 and ensure that people do not go hungry. “We accept the extension of lockdown as the order has come through constitutional process. It was not the decision of one person. Our party’s stand is clear: fight coronavirus, but also ensure that people are not left hungry,” state RJD president Jagdanand Singh said. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha also supported extension of lockdown. “However, people should not be left without food. Though the government appears to be active, not much is happening on the ground,” Jha added. State CPI(ML) secretary Kunal, whose party has three MLAs in the state assembly, said central and state governments should focus on maximizing testing for long-term solution. Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) spokesman Bhola Sharma said the state government should pay Rs 50 per migrant worker per day for the period of the lockdown. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) spokesman Danish Rizwan too said the government should maximise testing and ensure food to the poor and needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-should-not-go-hungry-say-parties/articleshow/75511348.cms||Abhay Singh
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Anand enjoys its second consecutive Covid-free day||Vadodara/ Anand: After spike in number of positive cases that witnessed since quite some time, administration in Anand received a sigh of relief as the district did not register any fresh COVID-19 case for the second consecutive day on Saturday. On Friday, too, not a single case was registered in the district which has been declared as red zone. Also, one patient each from Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad and Anand general hospital got discharged on Saturday after their repeat test came negative. Those discharged included a 60-year-old woman from Dantarwada area and a 20-year-old youth from Pipla Sheri area. Both these areas are in Gujarat’s coastal town Khambhat which is the biggest hotspot of Anand district with 62 cases recorded so far. With this, the total number of positive cases recorded in Anand district stands at 79 of which 34 have been discharged, five have died while 39 are still under treatment. Of the 39 active cases, 16 are being treated at civil hospital, Anand; 22 at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one is being treated at S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. One patient is currently on ventilator, five under oxygen while condition of 33 is stable. So far, samples of 646 individuals have been tested in the district. Of these, 567 have tested negative. Meanwhile, 15 nodal officers have been appointed in the district for coordination of those who are stranded in Anand and want to return to their native states or those who are stranded elsewhere in the country and want to return to Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-enjoys-its-second-consecutive-covid-free-day/articleshow/75510981.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Agra||Agra: Kin forced to lift Covid-19 positive patient with bare hands, shift him to ambulance||AGRA: In a case of extreme carelessness, family members of a Covid-19 patient in Agra alleged that they were forced to lift him with bare hands and shift him to the ambulance on a stretcher on Saturday as the staff at SN Medical College’s general ward refused to touch him. The patient was admitted to SNMC on Wednesday but tested positive on Saturday. The family was not provided gloves and sanitizer and a video of the entire episode has gone viral on social media. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I have seen the video and we will enquire about it from the hospital administration. Suitable action will be taken in this case. At any stage, carelessness in dealing with a Covid-19 positive patient will not be tolerated.” According to the family members, the patient was shifted to the SNMC’s medicine ward on April 30. On Friday, staffers at the ward had claimed that the patient was not Covid-19 positive. However, on Saturday afternoon, the patient was declared Covid-19 positive. “We were told that the patient needs to be shifted to the isolation facility and an ambulance was made available. As the ward boys refused to touch my brother, I had to lift him and put him on the stretcher. He was not able to move on his own. I carried him close to the ambulance and again asked for help to safely transfer my brother into the ambulance. No ward boy came forward to help us. My sister joined me. Due to carelessness of the SNMC staffers, we are at risk of getting infected,” the patient’s elder brother said. Earlier on April 29, the patient’s kin had also uploaded a video on Twitter complaining that their brother was not being admitted to the hospital. Read the story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kin-forced-to-lift-covid-positive-patient-with-bare-hands-shift-him-to-ambulance/articleshow/75511606.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Blackbuck’s horn recovered, cop held||PATNA: The forest department on Saturday recovered one of the horns of the young male blackbuck, which was killed in a suspected poaching case at a village in Rohtas district on Wednesday evening. Rohtas DFO Pradumna Gaurav said the horn was recovered about three km from the spot where the carcass was found based on information provided by the detained police constable, Niraj Kumar Dubey, during interrogation. “Efforts are on to recover the other horn of the killed endangered species,” he added. The DFO said the detained cop has been arrested and sent to judicial custody for violating the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. Dubey, however, did not admit to his role in the blackbuck killing and claimed that it was attacked by street dogs. Sasaram SDPO Lakshman Prasad claimed that the autopsy ruled out the use of a weapon in the killing. “No bullet marks were found on the carcass. The post mortem report suggested the endangered species was killed with a sharp-edged object. The report doesn’t substantiate the villagers’ claim that the blackbuck was shot from behind,” the SDPO said. The DFO said, “Investigation is on and we have talked to local residents as well as some wildlife experts to reach at a logical conclusion in the case.” Blackbucks are found in abundance in the Shahabad region comprising Rohtas, Kaimur and Bhojpur districts. Forest department officials said the gentle animals can be found roaming freely in agricultural fields but there was no history of blackbucks being killed by poachers or local residents in the Shahabad region. “The villagers don’t kill blackbucks as they don’t damage their crops,” a senior forest department officer said. The officer, however, admitted that stray incidents of killing of the antelopes for their body parts have been reported earlier. He said people kill blackbucks primarily for two reasons— using their characteristic twisted horns as trophies and for their meat. “In this case, both the horns of the blackbuck have been chopped off,” the officer pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/blackbucks-horn-recovered-cop-held/articleshow/75511420.cms||Ramashankar
May 3, 2020||Patna||Migrants should not face problems: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials to ensure that those who returned on Saturday and are willing to come back in coming days do not face any problems. Holding a review meeting, Nitish directed the chief secretary to coordinate with other states regarding the stranded people from Bihar. He said there should be an arrangement in the control room of the disaster management department (DMD) for receiving calls of all those willing to return to Bihar. Earlier on Friday, Nitish held a marathon review meeting with DMs, SPs and other officials through videoconferencing in the wake of return of large number of migrant workers and students from different states. He asked the officials, especially DMs and SPs, to make all necessary arrangements at the block and panchayat level quarantine centres for those returning home. He also stressed the need of making arrangements of sufficient number of buses for transporting migrant workers from railway station to respective district headquarters and from there to the block and panchayat level quarantine centres. “There should be adequate arrangement of food, lodging and medical facilities at all block level quarantine centres. Also make arrangement of sufficient number of bathrooms and toilets at such centres,” CM told the officers. Nitish asked the health department officials to increase the number of testing centres for Covid-19 at district level in the wake of possibility of return of large number of migrant workers. He further directed the district officials to conduct a skill survey of all returnee migrant workers so that they could be provided employment opportunities as per their skills. The CM said the departments engaged in providing employment to workers in rural areas should speed up their works so that maximum number of returnee migrant workers could be provided job opportunities in their respective panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-should-not-face-problems-nitish/articleshow/75511332.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Targeted testing raised number of cases this week’||PATNA: Even after completing two stages of the lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing in Bihar with the maximum 246 positive cases reported between April 25 to May 1. The last week of the last month also had the maximum 69 positive cases on a single day on April 27. The total number of positive cases between April 18 and 24 stood at 138. This was five times more compared to its previous week of 25 Covid-19 cases in the state. Initially, the numbers were quite less. For instance, there were nine cases in the first week (from March 22 to 27), followed by 22 between March 28 and April 3, 29 between April 4 and 10 and 25 fresh cases next week between April 11 and 17. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar cited two reasons for the increase in the number of Covid patients in the state. “First, state government is doing more targeted testing. For every positive case, his contact and infection trend is worked out and identified. These contacts are segregated and tested again. We are breaking the chain,” he told TOI. He also cited the coming back of migrants to Bihar as another reason. When asked whether the government was expecting the number of Covid-9 cases to shoot up as stranded persons have started returning, Sanjay said: “We need to be very vigilant.” Sanjay claimed that Bihar has fewer number of Covid cases as compared to other parts of the country and across the globe. Also, there has been slight improvement in the number of recoveries in the past two days. For instance, 14 people recovered on May 1 taking the total number of recoveries from coronavirus to 98. A day before, 19 people had recovered. While one person had recovered on April 29 and seven on April 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/targeted-testing-raised-number-of-cases-this-week/articleshow/75511386.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Districts roll up sleeves to handle migrants||PATNA: As stranded migrant workers, students and others have started returning to Bihar from other states, handling the influx of lakhs of people is a big challenge for the state government. Initially, these people are being kept at the quarantine centres made in each block at schools, government buildings, hotels and hospitals. Isolation wards are being made in all districts for asymptomatic and symptomatic patients. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said those returning from other states are undergoing three-layer screening. “Their health is examined at the place from where they depart for their home state, then at the interstate border and finally at the district headquarters or the nearest quarantine-cum-shelter camp in the state,” the DGP said. Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “It is not possible to collect samples of all people coming from other states. The principal secretary of health department has sought guidelines from ICMR regarding testing of so many people without rapid test kits. For the time being, the health officials will prioritise the people based on their symptoms. They will collect swab samples of only symptomatic patients. The rest will be quarantined for 21 days before being allowed to go home,” Dr Ragini said. She added that there are at least 56,000 health staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff at government hospitals and health centres across the state. “Asha workers and teams of polio micro plans have also been roped in,” she said. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said around 100 city buses will be stationed at Danapur railway station, where special trains are reaching from different parts of the country. “Around 80 buses will be there at Goaplganj border and 60 at Kaimur. Some buses will be stationed at Gaya, Purnia and Nawada,” he said. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said quarantine centres in the district have the capacity to accommodate 500 people. “The strength will be increased to 1,000 people soon,” he added. In Araria, quarantine centres having capacity to house 3,000 to 4,000 people have been made at different places. Araria DM Prashant Kumar CH said the returnee migrants would be screened in their respective blocks. The Bhojpur district administration has set up 57 quarantine centres for the people returning from other states. DM Roshan Kushwaha said all migrants would undergo health check-ups at quarantine centres. “Circle officers have been asked to ensure proper accommodation for the migrants,” he added. The Khagaria district administration is also gearing up to handle the migrant workers. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh and SP Meenu Kumar have issued several guidelines to the officials concerned to take precautionary measures to avoid the risk of virus transmission. In Nawada, the district administration has quarantined over 24 people. DM Yashpal Meena said some people have been quarantined at Rajauli too. Samastipur DRM Ashok Maheshwari, DM Shashank Shubhankar and SP Vikas Burman visited Samastipur railway station on Saturday to inspect facilities. In Saran district, 80 quarantine centres have been readied by the administration. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen on Saturday appealed to people people’s representatives to help the administration break Covid-19 chain in the district. (With inputs from Faryal Rumi and Ramashankar in Patna, Farrukh Nadim in Nalanda, L P Nayak in Araria, Praveen in Ara, N P Thakur in Khagaria, S B Sinha in Nawada, S K Jain in Samastipur and H K Verma in Saran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/districts-roll-up-sleeves-to-handle-migrants/articleshow/75511323.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Thunderstorm in Bihar to continue till May 6: Met||PATNA: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted that thunderstorm activities in eastern India, including Bihar, would continue at least till the next five days. According to the IMD, thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, hail and gusty winds (speed reaching up to 30-40kmph) would be witnessed at isolated places in the state till May 6. A Patna Meteorological Centre official, on the other hand, claimed that weather would mostly remain dry on Sunday, except in south-eastern parts of the state. “The intensity of thunderstorm activities will increase on Monday. Thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (30-40kmph) would occur in all 38 districts on Tuesday,” he added. The official attributed the thunderstorm activities to two cyclonic circulations – one over Bangladesh and another over northeast Madhya Pradesh. “Moisture incursion from these two cyclonic circulations amid the heating is leading to the thunderstorm activities. Temperature is likely to be tad higher on Sunday, but it would plunge again on Monday and continue to remain so till Wednesday owing to the thunderstorm activities,” the official said. The daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Saturday stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in north and south-east parts of Bihar and at one or two places in rest of the state during the last 24 hours. Places which witnessed chief amount of rainfall included Birpur and Bhagalpur (40mm each), Benibad, Chhapra and Rosera (30mm each), Bihta, Khagaria, Sabour, Vaishali and Sripalpur (20mm each). Private weather agency Skymetweather, on the other hand, has predicted that weather will not clear up in the northwest and eastern parts of the country, including Bihar, until the first week of May. “Rains will occur in West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, many parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh between May 4 and 7,” the Skymet report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thunderstorm-to-continue-till-may-6-met/articleshow/75511437.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation collects Rs 35,000 in fines from mask defaulters in 3 days||MYSURU: In the past three days, Mysuru City Corporation has collected more than Rs 35,000 as fine from public for not wearing mask and for spitting in public places. Speaking to TOI, MCC health officer MS Jayanth said, “MCC has collected a fine of Rs 35,100 in two days alone from people spotted without face masks and those found spitting in public places.” “Despite fervent appeals by the district administration and police, people continue to go out without wearing masks and spit in public places,” he said. On day one of enforcement, the corporation collected Rs 16,700 as fine from 167 violators. The maximum fine was collected in Zone 4 where Rs 5,500 was collected from 55 violators. Almost all violations were for not wearing mask. On day two, the corporation authorities penalised more than 167 people and collected more than Rs 16,700 as fine. After collecting the fine, the corporation authorities gave the violaters mask to wear. The civic agency has constituted twelve teams in nine zones — each team consisting two MCC staff and a police staff — to track the violators and collect fine. Dr DN Nagaraj, health officer, Mysuru City Corporation, told TOI: “Mysuru is a red zone. Hence to bring more discipline among public and make mask mandatory and avoid spitting in public places, we have come out with this checking drive. Hence we request people that once they step out of their house, they have to cover mouth and nose with any cloth. It is not mandatory that they should use surgical mask. The main aim is to educate public and make them aware.” “It is better for people to wear a kerchief which costs around Rs 20 than paying Rs 100 fine from corporation authorities,” said Anikethana Youth Club president K Gangadhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-corporation-collects-rs-35k-in-fines-in-two-days-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/75511050.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Export in tatters, farmers brew up own coffee brand||KOZHIKODE: After being hit hard by price crash partly due to drying up of orders from their major export market in Italy, the coffee farmers of Wayanad- the top coffee-growing region in the state- are pinning hopes on a collective attempt to produce and market Wayanad brand coffee soon. In a step in this direction, Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), a cooperative of over 13,000 farmers, started procuring raw coffee cherry from farmers as part of steps to bring out their own 'Wayanad Coffee' brand to double the income of coffee farmers over the next three years. The society has already set up a roast and ground factory at Kambalakkad which will produce coffee powder, processed green berries, instant coffee and other products. The installation of machinery in the plant is complete and operation is expected to start soon. However, the society's initial procurement of coffee from farmers will be used for export to the Gulf. Wayanad is an exclusive Robusta coffee growing region and according to industry sources Italy used to be the biggest Robusta market. Coffee farmers, especially from the hill district are the worst hit following the Covid-19 outbreak. Wayanad contributes 80 percent of Kerala’s coffee production. "There have been disruptions in the export of Robusta variety to Europe and especially Italy with buyers asking to delay the shipments and saying not to expect fresh orders for the next 2-3 years. He said that of the 1.8 lakh tonnes of Robusta coffee exported from the country, around 60,000 tonnes used to be exported to Italy," Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers Association, said. According to him, coffee bean prices that were USD 1700 (Rs. 1.3 lakh) per tonne this time last year dropped to USD 1300 before the lockdown and are currently priced at USD 1100 (Rs. 84,000). He said that attempts for value addition and market interventions were crucial to mitigate the uncertainties in the external markets due to the Covid-19 related disruptions. BDS chairman P Krishnaprasad said that once the branded Wayanad Coffee products hit the markets, the society aims to procure coffee from farmers at Rs 240 per kg, over the next three years by sharing the profit reaped through coffee powder sales "The works for setting up the roast and ground factory at Kambalakkad is almost complete. We will be bringing to the market branded coffee powder, instant coffee, beans and other products," he added. As per the Coffee Board of India's estimates, Wayanad had produced 58,450 tonnes of Robusta variety coffee during 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/export-in-tatters-farmers-brew-up-own-coffee-brand/articleshow/75511639.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Agra||Eight new Covid-19 positive cases in Firozabad, Etah reports 9th case||Agra: Even as Mainpuri district managed to narrow down its Covid-19 infected cases to one from eight, the neighbouring districts of Firozabad and Etah continue to report a rise in number of positive cases. On Saturday, Firozabad reported eight new cases, taking the tally to 130, while in Etah ninth case was reported in Jalesar, a Covid hotspot. According to health department of Firozabad, of the eight new cases, five belong to one family in Gandhi Nagar. Earlier, one member of the family who works as computer operator in mayor’s camp office was found positive. While the remaining three belonged to Nehru Nagar and Durgesh Nagar. Firozabad CMO Dr S K Dixit said, “The district currently has 105 active cases, while 23 have been discharged.” Meanwhile, the neighbouring Etah reported one more corona positive case from Qyar Simrau village of Jalesar police limits. Earlier, six members of a family from Ganeshpur village of Jalesar were tested positive, after coming in contact with patients from a Agra private hospital. Etah CMO Dr Ajay Agrawal said, “The four hotspots in the district are being sanitised regularly and contact tracing is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eight-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-firozabad-etah-reports-9th-case/articleshow/75511594.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Quarantined migrants give a facelift to school||BAGAHA: A group of 52 migrant workers, who were quarantined in a government middle school here after their return from other states following lockdown, has changed the face of the school by doing wall painting and other beautification work. The migrants, who are staying at Government Middle School, Lakshmipur under Bagaha-II block at India-Nepal border, first cleaned the school which was closed for a month and then painted the entire school building with fresh colour coat apart from planting flowers on the campus to give it a new look. Local mukhiya Suman Singh provided the materials to the migrants for the beautification work. Some of the migrants, residents of Kadhamahawa village, had gone to Nepal to earn livelihood. After they returned from Nepal, the district administration quarantined them in the school as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Later, the migrants voluntarily decided to paint the school and carry out other beatification work in a bid to spend time and set an example for others. The migrant workers said they wanted to do something for the village as a token of thanks for good arrangements for their stay done by the mukhiya and the school headmaster Sanjay Kumar. Sanjay said the workers changed the look of the school during their quarantine period. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar has also lauded the work done by the migrant workers at the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantined-migrants-give-a-facelift-to-school/articleshow/75511378.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Private hosps add more Covid beds||Kolkata: At least five private hospitals in Kolkata are ready to expand their Covid-19 units to accommodate more patients. While the AMRI Hospital Covid unit will be functioning at its full capacity from Monday, taking in 51 patients instead of 39, which it has been treating so far, Fortis Hospital Anandapur is ready to upgrade to a new 20-bed unit from its existing eight-bed facility. Peerless Hospital has already announced an expansion of its Covid unit to 20 beds and Medica Superspecialty has added 18 beds to its existing 10-bed Covid unit. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) is in the process of expanding its isolation unit to accommodate 15 more patients. Salt Lake’s AMRI Hospital, which was the first private facility to start a dedicated Covid unit, housed exclusively at its annexe building in Salt Lake, will add 12 beds that had been kept in reserve. “The unit will be functioning at its full capacity from Monday. Since patients have been coming in frequently, the waiting list had been growing. We felt more beds will help at this stage,” said a hospital source. Fortis Hospital, which is now treating patients beyond its existing capacity of seven beds, will add a 20-bed Covid unit by next week. It will also have another 12 beds for ‘low-risk’ patients with mild symptoms in a separate section. The decks are being cleared to set up the unit with a bigger team of dedicated healthworkers. “We believe more beds are now needed and we have started working towards that. Six beds were added recently since we had Covid patients. Now, we will have a bigger unit,” said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Two beds at the unit could be reserved for healthworkers at the hospital. Private hospitals with Covid units said they were flooded with requests to admit of patients who are either being treated at government set-ups or have been recently diagnosed. Peerless Hospital has started adding facilities like a central air-conditioning system and negative suction for the unit that could be further expanded to 40 beds, according to medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra. “We are waiting for equipment like monitors to arrive from other cities. It is taking time due to the lockdown,” added Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hosps-add-more-covid-beds/articleshow/75512716.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Expert dismisses fears of Covid-19 spreading through sea food||MANGALURU: The seafood industry across the world is undergoing turmoil, especially after reports emerged that a wet market in Wuhan, China, may have been the source of Covid-19. This forced a team of experts from across the world, including Dr Iddya Karunasagar, senior director, international relations, Nitte (deemed to be) University, to undertake a study. The experts have clarified that the novel coronavirus, the cause of Covid-19 in humans, does not infect aquatic life, nor contaminate their products. Iddya Karunasagar, who served as a senior food safety officer, for over a decade, at FAO in Rome, said, “The novel coronavirus belongs to the family Coronaviridae and genus Betacoronavirus. Beta Coronaviruses are only reported to infect mammals. Currently, there is no evidence to suggest that the novel coronavirus can infect seafood species, including finfish, crustaceans, molluscs and amphibians. Therefore, these animals do not play an epidemiological role in spreading Covid-19 in humans. Seafood species and their products, may potentially become contaminated, especially when handled by people who are infected with the novel coronavirus. Nevertheless, with proper food handling and sanitation, the likelihood of contamination of aquatic animals or their products, with the novel coronavirus, is negligible. Further, seafood is consumed after cooking, and the novel coronavirus is killed at a temperature of 70⁰C, and during cooking, temperatures go over this temperature, and hence cooked seafood is safe to consume,” he said. “Seafood is safe to consume, as long as it is prepared and served in accordance with recommended hygiene and food safety measures. Even in countries that had over a lakh people infected by the novel coronavirus, there is no evidence of transmission of the virus through seafood,” Karunasagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/expert-dismisses-fears-of-covid-19-spreading-through-sea-food/articleshow/75510779.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Facebook post urges government to trace ‘missing MLA’||BELAGAVI: A video jibe at Khanapur MLA for her alleged absence from the constituency ever since the enforcement of lockdown has gone viral on social media. In his Facebook post, Joythiba Baramappanavar has urged the government to trace MLA Anjali Nimbalkar, “who is missing in action from the first day of lockdown”. The video, posted on April 29, has been shared by thousands. Targeting the MLA, Joythiba says in the video: “Despite farmers facing crises in the absence of supply chain, the MLA has not visited Khanapur even once. They need help in these challenging times.” According to Joythiba, Anjali visited the constituency regularly prior to assembly polls in 2018. “She had organised mass marriages, kabaddi matches and other activities for votes. However, her presence gradually came down after the polls, and it is nil now. Elected representatives are duty-bound to bail out farmers in the hour of crisis,” he said, and cited the suicide of 55-year-old chilli grower Kallappa Balekundri owing to losses. “Even when the people are struggling to get food kits and masks, the MLA, despite being a medico, is sitting in the comfort of her house. If we protest, police will jail us. So I shot this video, which is a wake-up call for the government send her back to the constituency,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/facebook-post-urges-govt-to-trace-missing-mla/articleshow/75510636.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Varanasi||Couple ends life in Bhadohi||VARANASI: A youth and his alleged lover committed suicide by jumping in front of a goods train near Kandhia railway crossing gate under Chauri police station in Bhadohi district on Saturday morning. The incident came to light when a passerby noticed their bodies lying on railway tracks near Kandhiya railway crossing on Varanasi-Janghai line. On getting information, Chauri cops reached the spot. CO Aurai, Lekhraj Singh said matter was being investigated and the bodies had been sent for postmortem. Police said during initial investigation the deceased couple was identified as Sandeep Rajbhar (22) and Kajal (20) of Hirapatti area under Sureri police station of Jaunpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/couple-ends-life-in-bhadohi/articleshow/75511360.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||HC: Ensure timely aid to rape survivors for terminating pregnancy||Jodhpur: The Rajasthan High Court has directed the state government to frame suitable guidelines to ensure that rape survivors who become pregnant are provided timely legal and medical assistance to ensure that they could exercise their reproductive choice in terms of the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act. The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice P S Bhati gave these directions while hearing a special writ petition by the state government challenging a decision by a single bench, which had rejected the plea of a minor rape survivor of Churu seeking termination of her pregnancy stating, “the foetus in womb had a right to life as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India”. “We had challenged this order in which the single bench had denied permission to terminate a 26-week foetus of a 17-year-old rape survivor and custody of the newborn child to be given to Navjeevan Sansthan, an orphanage,” said AAG Pankaj Sharma. The court said a pregnant woman, even in a normal situation, has a right to demand termination of pregnancy upto 20 weeks as per the MTP Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-ensure-timely-aid-to-rape-survivors-for-terminating-pregnancy/articleshow/75512336.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ban lifted, liquor shops may open from Monday||KOLKATA: After more than five dry weeks, Kolkatans are likely to get a taste of their favourite tipple from Monday. Sources said that though the state state excise department has not issued any formal notification, the ministry of home affairs order on Friday, allowing liquor off-shops to open in green, orange and even red zones, has lifted the lockdown-induced prohibition. However, bars and liquor on-shops will remain shut till the lockdown lasts. Home delivery of liquor, too, is under consideration in some areas. It is learnt that Bevco (the state Beverage corporation) — the wholesale liquor arm of the state — will resume operations from Monday. “Most of the warehouses of Bevco have already started the process to resume operations,” said a source. West Bengal has 22 Bevco warehouses and out of them 19 are likely to open on Monday. The state has 2,500 liquor off-shops. The excise department had also informally issued an advisory for liquor shop owners. In some districts, tipplers got access to their favorite liquor for a limited period in the second week of April through home delivery. In Kolkata, the move was stalled after the April 14 order of MHA banning sale of alcohol during lockdown. In the first week of April, the excise department wanted to follow the Wuhan model in Kolkata. The city where Covid-19 first was detected and had a 68-day lockdown, arranged home delivery of liquor successfully with an app. There was an informal communication from excise which said liquor could be sold on a home delivery basis from on shops/off shops/bars/restaurants/ hotels etc. having valid liquor licence. In the latest circular, MHA has allowed sale of liquor irrespective of zones with proper social distancing and other measures. Amrit Kiran Singh, executive chairman of International Spirits and Wine Association of India, told TOI: “We have told MHA that our association is talking to all state excise departments for implementing ‘Project Safe Shield’. We shall run a campaign on this.” The project, which is about guidelines for off-shops, says buyers have to maintain a 6ft distance among themselves and not more than five buyers can be allowed at a time. In addition, masks and sanitizers are compulsory. The excise department has also advised off-shop owners to tell buyers about the new MRP of the liquor. The excise department has already revised the prices of liquor by 30% earlier this month. Bevco has completed re-labelling of its stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ban-lifted-liquor-shops-may-open-from-monday/articleshow/75512271.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No hope of economic revival, say experts||PATNA: Even as the government has announced certain relaxations while extending the lockdown till May 17, experts are of the view that the move would be of little help as far as revival of economic activities is concerned. Economist and member secretary of Patna-based Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) Shaibal Gupta said revival of economy was possible only after complete lifting of the lockdown. “The latest extension of the lockdown has come with certain relaxations. However, the extent of relaxations announced varies for different geographies in the country. There remain restrictions on the free movement of people and goods, which make it difficult to restart the economic activities in most sectors and geographies. The modern economy is structured in such a way that no sector operates in isolation. Hence, the real recovery in the economic activity will begin only when the health crisis is controlled and lockdown is lifted from all the sectors and the geographies,” he said. Gupta added, “The crisis has created a lot of stress on the finances of central and state governments. However, a lot is expected from the governments to help the individuals and the economy. The only fear is that the prolonged lockdown might become unsustainable for both the businesses and the governments.” D M Diwakar, a social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said, “Although the third phase of lockdown is a little better planned than earlier, it seems difficult to revive economic activities. It will take months for situation to become normal.” Economist and former principal of Patna College N K Chaudhary, on the other hand, said the relaxations would lead to marginal revival of economic activities. “The relaxations in green and orange zones, including allowing movement of people in non-containment zones, will lead to slight increase in generation of demand and production. Bihar may see even better results as it is an agriculture-based economy with 89% of the population living in rural areas,” he said. Rama Shankar, secretary of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said the relaxations would not provide much impetus to the economic activities. “Since we don’t have much industries and factories here, the relaxations would not help,” he said. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan, however, sees a 20% revival in state’s economy following relaxations in the lockdown. “Factories will open up in several sectors, including food processing, steel and cement. This will generate revenue and ensure money flow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-hope-of-economic-revival-experts/articleshow/75511262.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: All courts to be closed indefinitely||PRAYAGRAJ: All district courts, tribunals and judicial bodies of the state will continue to remain closed till further orders. In a communication issued to all the district judges across the state on Saturday, the registrar general of Allahabad High Court, Ajay Kumar Srivastava, informed that the high court has decided that all the courts subordinate to the high court will remain closed till further orders. In a communication dated May 2, the registrar general directed to all the district judges of the state, asking them to comply with this order and also bring the content of this letter into the notice of all the presiding officers of commercial courts, Motor Accident Claims Tribunals and Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authorities. In this communication, the registrar general has requested all the district judges across the state to ensure that the content of this letter be uploaded on the website of respective district courts so that all stakeholders, viz., advocates, litigants, other concerned authorities, etc., be informed accordingly. Earlier, the high court had on April 19 directed closure of court till April 27. Subsequently, the high court passed a fresh order, saying that in view of extension of the lockdown, the district courts across the state will remain closed till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/all-courts-to-be-closed-indefinitely/articleshow/75511602.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||70-year-woman commits suicide in Kodagu||KODAGU: A 70-year-old woman allegedly shot herself dead at her residence in Hysodluru village in South Kodagu late on Friday. Tara lived alone in the house after the death of her husband Byavanda Lakshmana, a coffee grower, three years ago. The incident came to light on Saturday when his son Dharmaja visited him. Tara often helped the poor in her neighbourhood. Dharmaja, an advocate, lives in Jodubeeti, a nearby village, and often visited her. Coffee estate manager robbed of 5.2 lakh The manager of a coffee estate was allegedly robbed of Rs 5.2 lakh after he withdrew the cash from a bank in Sunticoppa. The money was meant to be distributed as salary among labourers in the coffee estate in Gundukutti. Two bike-borne miscreants attacked Vijayakumar and tied him to a tree before escaping with the money. An injured Vijayakumar was shifted to a hospital. Sunticoppa police are investigating the case. Kids consume pesticideTwo girls died after accidentally consuming pesticide on Saturday. The deceased Deepika and Divya, 9, were the daughter and niece of a coffee estate worker in Konanakatte. Gonikoppal police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/70-year-woman-commits-suicide-in-kodagu/articleshow/75510482.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Job worry for many||PATNA: The fear of losing job writ large on the faces of people who returned to the state from Rajasthan’s Jaipur and Nagaur on Saturday. While some were hopeful of getting employment in Bihar, others said they would return to their workplaces after the situation normalises. Mithilesh Kumar, a migrant worker who returned from Nagaur, said he was hopeful that the Bihar government would provide him and others job opportunities in the state. Kumar, a native of Dalwalpur in Purnia, said he used to work as daily wager at Nagaur. “Locals and the Nagaur district administration provided us food during our stay there after the enforcement of lockdown,” he added. Naresh Mahto of Paro in Muzaffarpur, who worked in a cement factory at Nagaur, said he is uncertain about his future. “I will take a call on my return after lockdown ends. My salary for March and April is pending. The factory owner said he would pay next month,” he added. Kamleshwar Singh of Noao in Bhabhua, said, “My family was tense as my younger brother was also with me. At least we will get to see the family members now even during the quarantine period,” he said, adding both they had settled in Nagaur more than five years back for employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/job-worry-for-many/articleshow/75511354.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Firms chart plans for home delivery of non-essentials||KOLKATA: Hypermarket chains, electronics retailers, e-commerce players and traders are gearing up for home delivery of non-essential items following the state and the MHA orders and subsequent clarifications. Some like Spencer’s have already started home-delivery of garments and electronics while few others are waiting for more clarification from the state. Kaushik Ganguly, head (ER) of Spencer’s Retail, told TOI: “We have started sending messages to our customers in this regard.” Future Group head (east) Manish Agarwal pointed out that they would wait till Monday for further information. The group is already into home delivery of essentials, which now constitutes 25% of its total business during the lockdown. “We are ready with he infrastructure for home delivery of non-essentials as well,” he added. Great Eastern Retail Ltd is yet to start home delivery of products and awaiting permission for opening standalone shops in green and orange zones. “We have asked different district administration for opening shops. For home delivery, we are waiting for more clarity. Our website is up where we have already downloaded all product features and prices,” said Pulkit Baid, director. Manoj Khosla, director of Khosla Electronics, added: “Once we get necessary clearances, we can start home delivery of electronics and appliances.” However, Khosla feels that containment zones in between the warehouse and scustomer could be a logistical problem. Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association, which have over 10 lakh traders as members, have developed a website that can be used as an offline-online combination during lockdown and beyond, said president Sudhil Poddar. A spokesperson from the Flipkart Group told TOI: “We welcome the government's efforts in charting out an exit plan from the lockdown and allowing e-commerce to serve consumers in orange and green zones by fulfilling their products needs. Amazon India spokesperson added: “The government nod for e-commerce in orange and green zones is a welcome decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firms-chart-plans-for-home-delivery-of-non-essentials/articleshow/75512292.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
May 3, 2020||Goa||Colleges offer webinars, courses for bored netizens||Panaji: A number of colleges in Goa have begun hosting webinars and certificate courses in a vast range of subjects, from waste management to writing of research papers to long distance photography, to keep its students productive during the long lockdown period. Some of these colleges have even opened up their online programmes to other citizens and have received enquiries from those residing outside Goa as well. “Considering the lockdown scenario prevailing in our country, the relatively new concept of facetime photo shoots through online platforms, was introduced to students and select general public in an online webinar ‘elements of photography’. The 10-day webinar programme was aimed at easing the task of collaboration for creative photography projects,” said Jaison Joseph, associate professor of physics at Government College, Khandola. The training programme, held via the Zoom platform, started with an introduction of scientific knowledge in photography’s fundamentals, equipment and lighting systems and moved on to the intricacies of remote photoshoots through online platforms, said Joseph. College principal Purnakala Samant said that a five-day course on eco-friendly waste management strategies was also held for all the undergraduate students of the college. “The sessions were available on the college website and it was a certificate course to help students spend the lockdown period productively,” Samant said. For a registration fee of Rs 100 (to be paid online), Swami Vivekanand Vidyaprasarak Mandal’s College of Commerce, Borim, is presently conducting a four-day online workshop on ‘the art of writing a research paper in social science’. The workshop covers subjects in depth including research ethics and plagiarism, research methodology, and how to use citations, which students can attend from the comfort of their homes. Goa Multi-faculty College, Dharbandora hosted a webinar recently on creating a reading list for starting a research project, with Goa University librarian Dr Gopakumar V as the resource person. In case students face network issues, the videos of the sessions are provided to those registered to help them complete their courses, college principals said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colleges-offer-webinars-courses-for-bored-netizens/articleshow/75513088.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Shivamogga formulates alternate day rule for shopkeepers||SHIVAMOGGA: Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar on Saturday ordered the closure of shops in Gandhi Bazaar in the district on alternate days in a bit to reduce crowding in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The order issued as per Centre’s guidelines instructs shops on the left of the Gandhi Bazaar to remain open on a day when those on the right shall remain closed and vice versa. The provisions shall apply only to Gandhi Bazaar and shall not apply to the merchants of other places in the city. Apart from Gandhi Bazaar, there are other streets in the city such as Nehru Road, BH Road, Durgigudi, Savalanga Road, Vinobanagara and other areas where small textile shops are open under certain conditions. Health minister’s meeting Health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu held a meeting with district officers and reviewed the action taken by the district administration to combat Covid-19. Speaking to media after the review meeting, the minister said, “Shivamogga is in green zone following the stringent measures taken by DC and health department. But we should not neglect the guidelines. Take for example Davanagere it slipped from green zone to orange zone. It is a long struggle and it is necessary to be mentally prepared to continue fighting it off for another 6-7 months while maintaining a social distance. The plasma therapy for corona treatment is currently under clinical trial and will be followed in all districts if it approved by the competent authority, he added. About Rs 80 crores have been released to pay the outstanding dues, including the outsourcing staff in the health department. Similar measures will be taken to address the salary discrimination of staff at different levels in the department. We will recruit 2,500 staff in the health department after the corona scare ends, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/shivamogga-formulates-alternate-day-rule-for-shopkeepers/articleshow/75511467.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: CISCE exams 8 days after schools reopen||KOLKATA: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will complete the unfinished ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) examinations within six to eight days after schools reopen post lockdown. The exams will be held on Saturdays and Sundays as well to make up for the lost time. Six ICSE and eight ISC papers could not be held as schools were suspended suddenly. “We shall announce the schedule eight days prior to the exams. This time may be utilized by schools to make all arrangements and help students revise the papers,” said CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon, adding that the results would be announced within six to eight we-eks thereafter. Several school principals said the Council’s decision would bring clarity to Class X and Class XII students who were uncertain over the fate of the exams. “We have to now focus on completing the remaining examinations as early as possible. Students should be prepared to appear in the ICSE or ISC exams on weekends as well,” said Ram Mohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas. Schools have been asked to give provisional admission to ICSE students into Class XI, subject to ICSE results. “The schools may also begin or continue online classes for them. Similarly, ISC students may also start or continue with preparations for various entrance exams during this interim period,” Arathoon added. “I am running out of patience. Such a prolonged gap between examinations is likely to have a negative impact on my score since my motivation is now diminishing,” said Amrita Saha, an ICSE candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-exams-8-days-after-schools-reopen/articleshow/75512314.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Businessmen rue lockdown extension, people support it||PATNA: The third extension of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic till May 17 has evoked mixed response in Bihar. While some are disappointed with curbs in red zones, others are happy that the government was prioritizing human life over the economy. For Shubha Sharma, a Hindi teacher at a private school, the lockdown has been very depressing. “I was expecting some relief this time, but the city is now in red zone. Not only has it increased the stress but also our work as teachers. Lockdown is very important in such crisis, but adults should at least get some respite from it,” she said. The lockdown extension has added to the woes of petroleum and natural gas dealers. Ajit Kumar, owner of a petrol pump on Bailey Road said, “The lockdown has reduced the sales of diesel and petrol from 30,000 to 2,000 litre per day. Earlier, I used to sell fuel worth Rs18-20 lakh. Now it hardly reaches Rs1 lakh. The extension will make things worse as I am already facing losses. Besides, I have to pay altogether 40 employees and staff and it will become impossible if the lockdown continued.” Eatery owners have the same problem. Shivam Sharma, who owns a restaurant on Boring Road, said: “Though home delivery and takeaway have been allowed, the number of orders for food is very few. We were pressed hard and shut it for the time being.” Ruing the red zone tag for Gaya district, advocate Ashok Kumar said the categorization apparently defies logic. “As against the six Covid cases in Gaya, Nalanda has 35 and Siwan 30. Yet these districts are in the Orange zone. The categorization must be based on some rational and transparent parameters,” he said. When contacted, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani referred to para 2 (i) of the Ministry of Home Affairs notification on May 1 categorizing zones on the basis of ‘risk’ profile of the district. Those in orange zones also rued restriction in containment areas. Murli Kumar, who owns a bookshop in Ara, said: “At this time when the new academic session starts, our shop buzzed with activities. Since we are now in containment zone, I cannot open my shop.” Those in green zone districts, including Sitamarhi, heaved a sigh of relief owing to the relaxations. “Nevertheless, we all must be cautious as the virus is still spreading,” said Tulsi Kumari, assistant professor at Goenka College, Sitamarhi. Residents and housing societies, on the other hand, said only lockdown can avert growing number of positive cases. Patliputra Cooperative Society’s secretary Rai Ajeet Prasad said it might take as long as two months for Patna to come in the orange zone. “Any relief from lockdown will make things worse. Hence, I support the lockdown extension,” he said. Rajiv Nagar resident Nikhil Kumar said: “There’s no denial that lockdown is the only way to curb the virus spread. We have already seen how badly social gathering and other activities can impact the country.” (With inputs from Abdul Qadir in Gaya, Praveen in Ara and Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/businessmen-rue-lockdown-extension-people-support-it/articleshow/75511233.cms||Archi Rani
May 3, 2020||Patna||Outsiders stranded in Patna seek help||PATNA: With the Centre allowing interstate movement of stranded people amid the Covid-19 lockdown, outsiders stuck in Patna are desperate to return home. National Institute of Technology-Patna student, Kartik Singh Parmar, who hails from Ghaziabad, has exhausted all his money and is living with some hostelmates. “It has been a month and am stuck in my college hostel. I really want to go back home and be with my family. I get upset when I see that my parents are worried about me,” Kartik told this newspaper on Saturday. Dhanbad resident, Pummy Gupta, who is preparing for competitive exams in Patna, has run out of money. She rued, “I have not paid my rent and the hostel owner keeps asking me for money. After the Centre allowed interstate movement of people, I tried getting in touch with a nodal officer, but to no avail. I am eagerly waiting to return to my family.” Mumbai-based entrepreneur, Adarsh Ambastha, had come to Patna on March 19 and has been stuck here since then. “I am confused and do not know whom to contact. I am worried about my 72-year-old mother, who is alone in Mumbai, and suffering from high blood pressure,” the 41-year-old said. An insurance agent from Faridabad, Rohit Singh, is comparatively “in a better position” as he is stuck in Patna with his wife and two sons. “We had come here on March 21 to visit the Mahavir Temple and were going to board a train on March 24 when the nationwide lockdown was announced,” Rohit said and added, “I have no money now and need help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/outsiders-stranded-in-patna-seek-help/articleshow/75511435.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Over 14k in Nagpur dist line up to return home||Nagpur: With inter-state movement of stranded persons allowed, there are more than 14,000 waiting to reach their homes from Nagpur district alone. As there are plans to run special trains, it was seen in some of the districts that the stranded workers did not even have the money to pay for the journey. Persons being sent by the trains will have to pay a basic fare. In such cases the concerned states are being approached in some districts. According to district collector Ravindra Thakare, Nagpur collectorate has received applications from over 10,000 persons on Saturday. “Out of them, as much as 8,000 are those who want to travel out of the city,” he said. Another 2,000 applications were received by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. This is over and above the 6,000 migrant workers living in shelter homes of the district. Thakare said the police commissioner is authorized to give permissions to stranded person living within the municipal limits. The applications will be processed from May 5 or 6. The applications have to be made online, yet confusion remained. Scores of persons gathered at the district collector’s office to seek information. Some complained that they did not get any acknowledgement that the online application was filed successfully. “Figures of other districts from the region are yet to be compiled,” said divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati. There are plans to run a train between Nagpur to Lucknow or other destination in Uttar Pradesh. Modalities are being worked out and there will be 35-40 migrants in each coach, said a source. “A train from Akola to Uttar Pradesh has been planned too,” said divisional commissioner (Amravati), Piyush Singh. There are similar plans for stranded workers from Madhya Pradesh but a number of workers don’t have the money to pay the charges of Rs300 for the travel. “The MP government has been approached to pay for the expenses,” he said. Meanwhile, at the collector office, persons from different parts of the country, including a group of Tablighi Jamaat, had come to get information. Zakir Khan, a member of the Jamaat, said that there are persons from south to even northeast. “They have been tested negative and want to go,” said Khan. Dinesh Odedera from Porbandar in Gujarat said that he had applied four days ago but had not received any reply. Another youth was waiting to reach Chhindwara, 125km away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-14k-in-nagpur-dist-line-up-to-return-home/articleshow/75512286.cms||Shishir Arya
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||464 villages of A’bad district to be sanitized||Ahmedabad: At 10.30am, all 464 villages in Ahmedabad district under Ahmedabad district panchayat will carry out mass sanitization simultaneously as part of Covid-19 drive. The district authorities claimed that it’s the biggest such drive in the state where about 3 lakh litres of disinfectants will be mixed with water and will be used to sanitize every nook and corner of the villages. Arun Mahesh Babu, DDO Ahmedabad, said that it’s a joint initiative of the Gram Yoddha at village level along with health department and local administration. “The water and disinfectants have been readied at village level for the exercise,” he said. “But it’s not just about disinfecting villages, it’s primarily to demonstrate that the fight against Covid-19 is a joint effort and society’s participation is of utmost importance.” A majority of the cases are recorded in clusters which are closer to the Ahmedabad city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/464-villages-of-abad-district-to-be-sanitized/articleshow/75512734.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Many did not get food in train: Migrant workers||PATNA: Migrant workers who reached Danapur from Rajasthan in a train on Saturday said they were handed over a general coach ticket of Rs 390 at Jaipur station. The workers said they were allotted one berth each and no additional passenger was allowed in the train. One of them, Sahdeo Mahto, said around 300 people from different districts in Bihar were working in a cement factory at Nagaur. “We were taken to Jaipur railway station in 14 buses after screening on Friday. The government authorities had provided khichdi and water pouches to us at the station. However, some did not receive khichdi,” he said. “We were not given food inside the train. The railway staff assured us that food will be provided at Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay railway junction. However, none turned up at the junction with food. Some passengers, however, told us that they received food packets inside the train,” he said. Another migrant worker, Zimdar Singh of Pirha Bigha in Rohtas, also alleged that he didn’t get food in train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-did-not-get-food-in-train-migrant-workers/articleshow/75511394.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Accidents dip in Trichy, but traffic violations common||TRICHY: Lockdown for more than a month has drastically brought down the number of accidents in Trichy city due to the minimal movement of vehicles. However, motorists violating road traffic rules have become a common sight in the city. In an accident involving two bikes near TVS tollgate, four men sustained injuries on April 24. Three men were riding a bike in a dangerous manner and rammed against the lone bike rider. As many as 12 such non-fatal accident cases were reported in Trichy city between March 25 and April 30. C Vijay, 35 of Pudukottai, a police constable attached to Tamil Nadu special police battalion was injured in his left elbow after a bike rider K Ravindran, 57, took a U-turn without signalling on the Trichy-Pudukottai Eoad on April 30. A woman riding pillion on a bike fell down on the road and injured after the rider jumped the speed breaker at a high speed. People in order to take short cuts, often drive their vehicles in one-ways posing dangers to others. The member of Road Safety Council, Trichy, M Sekaran expressed his deep anguish over the rash driving of trucks and mini-trucks carrying vegetable and other essential items. “For the drivers, lockdown and the normal period are same. They don’t care about traffic rules. Police should control them,” he said. During lockdown, many motorists don’t care about the barricades erected opposite to Trichy district court to divert traffic flow around the park. “We feel scary of riding bike on the roads because the violators would hit us from any side. Police held up with Covid-19 work are also unable to look into the issue,” said district president of Road Users’ Welfare Association P Ayyarappan. The city also witnessed a fatal accident in which a 46-year-old truck driver was killed after the truck hit a stationery mini-truck from behind at Kajamalai in the city. Deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, Trichy city, R Vedarathinam warned of action against traffic violators. “In some bridges, we restricted the traffic on one side only. But motorists take it for granted and don’t follow the rules. We will take action against the violators,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/accidents-dip-in-city-but-traffic-violations-common/articleshow/75512747.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Colour-coded lockdown from Monday||PATNA: The colour-coded zones with their respective guidelines for restrictions and relaxations during Lockdown 3.0 till May 17 will come into effect from Monday. Five districts in the state, including Patna, come under the red zone, 20 in orange zone and the remaining 13 district fall under green zone. While some respite has been given to people in green and orange zones, districts in red zones, especially urban areas, will continue to face strict curbs. All activities, except for the movement of people for supply of essential goods, services and medical emergencies, will remain prohibited in the containment zones. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ragini Mishra said all 38 districts in the state have been categorised into zones as per the Centre’s guidelines. “While districts with 25 or more Covid-19 cases have been categorised as falling in red zone, districts with no positive cases in last 14 days have been categorised as orange zones,” she said. As per guidelines of Union ministry of health and family welfare, certain activities are permitted with restrictions in districts categorised as red zones. Activities that have been allowed in red zones outside containment areas in urban locales, include movement of people or vehicles if necessary, opening of standalone shops selling essential and non-essential commodities in neighbourhood and residential complexes, construction work, manufacturing of essential commodities, functioning of private offices with 33% strength and functioning of government offices. In the green zones, all activities, except those prohibited throughout the country, are allowed in these districts. Regarding vehicular movement in all three zones, the guidelines state that buses and bus depots are allowed to operate with 50% capacity only in districts categorised as green zones. Industries minister Shyam Rajak said work at industries in rural areas as well as in the Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority areas have already started. “Based on the zones, guidelines have been issued to the industries. As of now, 2,200 industries are functional and more than 26,000 workers are working. In order to keep a check on the workers, general managers of the units have been asked to report about the updates on a daily basis,” he said. Professionals in the private sector are elated as they will finally be able to resume their offices with 33% strength. “It’s quite a happy moment for people in the private sector who after an interval of more than a month will be able to resume their works,” said Anup Gaurav, employee at a private company in Exhibition Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/colour-coded-lockdown-from-monday/articleshow/75511417.cms||Archi Rani
May 3, 2020||Patna||‘Two special trains with pupils to leave Kota on Sunday’||PATNA: Decks have been cleared to bring students from Kota by two special trains, one each to Begusarai and Gaya. The trains will leave Kota on Sunday, state disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said on Saturday. He said one train has already started from Ernakulam and another from Thrissur in Kerala for Danapur on Saturday. He also said talks have been held with Gujarat government to bring migrant workers and others concerned from Ahmedabad and Surat. Similar talks have also been held with the Maharashtra and Delhi governments. Amrit said the state government has been working on creating a special App to receive information from the migrant workers, students and others from state willing to return home. Amrit had videoconferencing with the nodal officers appointed to coordinate with the governments of the host states to facilitate the return of people from Bihar. He said the mobile phones of the nodal officers, whose numbers had been made public, crashed due to the onrush of unlimited inquiring calls. Accordingly, they were unable to respond to the calls made, while the phone calls received on their phones were stored in their phones. Their phones were not meant to receive public calls, but to coordinate with the host governments. He said the migrant workers, students and others willing to return to Bihar should make calls on 0612-2294204 and 0612-2294205 and register their details. They would be brought back to Bihar following the SOP. Meanwhile, East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the two special trains from Kerala will reach Danapur on Monday. According to Railway Board’s executive director Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued certain guidelines to be followed strictly by railways in transporting stranded migrants, students, pilgrims, tourists and other people to their respective home states. “The MHA has directed the state government as well as railway ministry to maintain proper coordination with nodal officers to chalk out comprehensive plan to run special trains on particular dates with full details of the travelling passengers,” he said. The CPRO said the MHA directives clearly stipulate that each asymptomatic person is allowed to travel by a special train after thorough screening at the originating station. “The state government concerned has to provide free meals and drinking water bottles to the passengers. But in case of long distance trains, railways will take care of meals, water bottles and other needs of passengers during journey. Besides, wearing face mask is mandatory for each person travelling in the special trains,” Rajesh said. “The state government allows only those persons to travel by special trains, who have been duly registered with the state government nodal officer as bona fide passenger. It is for the state government to bring these passengers to the railway station and allow them to board special train after proper screening and medical check-up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-special-trains-with-pupils-to-leave-kota-today/articleshow/75511340.cms||Abhay Singh
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Restarting idle buses will be troublesome, may trigger pollution||KOLKATA: Restarting of buses, which have been lying idle for more than a month and half now, will be an uphill task when the lockdown eases, automobile experts have warned. Not only that, the parked vehicles may pollute more than usual when the engines start vrooming. This is particularly true for old diesel vehicles. The spare parts of these vehicles are likely to develop numerous glitches, thanks to depositions of impurities that may choke the engines. “Remaining idle can cause a series of issues. The sticky deposition may affect fuel tank, fuel line, fuel pump and fuel injectors. The owners may need mechanics just to restart the vehicles,” said Prabir Bose, an automobile expert. The vehicles may require engine overhauling if trouble starts surfacing, he added. Many bus operators in green zones have already started facing these problems. “Many buses in the green zones are not being able to operate. Many of our members did not get the least buffer time to carry out the emergency maintenance. After the meeting with the district administration, many operators took their drivers and cleaners to buses to find that engines choked. We don’t know how many of them can actually hit the road,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Besides deposition of unwanted elements – like sulphur and carbon on the piston head and exhaust system, one of the major parts that get affected is tyre. “After having been parked on the same surface, tyres developed malfunction. The surface of tyres suffers major decay to the extent that the replacement of tyres might be required. Moreover, static gear oil and brake oil also cause trouble,” said automobile emission expert Somendra Mohan Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restarting-idle-buses-will-be-troublesome-may-trigger-pollution/articleshow/75512304.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ramakrishna Mission opens gates to Covid-19 warriors||HOWRAH: The Ramakrishna Mission has decided to provide logistical support in the battle against coronavirus. It has made arrangements at its guest house at Belur Math where 26 health workers — doctors and nurses — have been accommodated. These doctors and nurses are in the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 by treating patients at TL Jaiswal Hospital. Belur Math is located barely 2km from the hospital. Swami Subratananda, in charge of the guest house, said, “Some doctors and nurses of TL Jaiswal Hospital are serving patients and staying at our guest house. Ramakrishna Mission has always come forward in the service of mankind. This time, too, at the request of senior district administration officials, we have accommodated doctors and nurses at the guest house to enable them give more time to their jobs.” Howrah district administration sources said they had sent a request to the Belur Math authorities two weeks ago to allow doctors and nurses of TL Jaiswal Hospital stay at the guest house. This request was accepted promptly. Howrah CMOH Bhabani Das said, “We are grateful to Belur Math authorities for accepting our request and accommodating doctors and nurses of TL Jaiswal Hospital at their guest house. This is enabling them to perform their duties better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-opens-gates-to-covid-warriors/articleshow/75512331.cms||Rupak Banerjee
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Alcoholics could become carriers of Covid-19, fears seer||HUBBALLI: The Centre’s decision to allow the sale of liquor with certain restrictions has come in for criticism by Tontada Siddharam Swami of Jagadguru Tontadarya Math. He claimed that if alcoholics get liquor now, they will become faster carriers of Covid-19 as they sleep in unhygienic places. He said the government should understand the sensitivity of the issue as alcoholics would assault their family members, including children. The seer urged chief minister B S Yediyurappa not to allow the sale of liquor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/alcoholics-could-become-carriers-of-covid-19-fears-seer/articleshow/75510845.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Varanasi||BHU lab closed: 64 test reports awaited||VARANASI: As the BHU lab is closed, no test report could be obtained from there on Saturday, while 46 samples collected in the district were sent to KGMU, Lucknow. The BHU lab was closed after a scientist had tested positive on Friday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Altogether 64 reports were awaited from BHU, which could not be received as the lab was closed on Friday.” He said after contact tracing of infected persons, 46 samples including of nine family members and relatives of BHU’s infected woman scientist, had been collected on Saturday and were sent to KGMU, Lucknow. Till late afternoon, 56 samples of close contacts of eight infected persons including the wardboy of Shivpur quarantine home, had been collected and it will be sent to Lucknow on Sunday, he added. Altogether 35 close contacts of nine persons, who were tested positive on April 29, had been identified and their samples will be collected on Sunday, he said adding, symptomatic people being detected in hotspot areas and their buffer zones will be covered for collection of their samples on Sunday. He said that identified persons are being taken to ESI hospital for collection of their samples while on the request of relatives of infected persons arrangements for collection of samples at their home are also being made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-lab-closed-64-test-reports-awaited/articleshow/75511384.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 3, 2020||Goa||With pvt sector resuming ops on Monday, commuters worry about space on buses||Panaji: Come Monday, the state will see further relaxation of lockdown curbs,and more offices, both private and public sector, will open for operations. However, with authorities putting a 50% capacity cap on buses, commuters are now wondering how to get to work. According to the government’s directive, 50% of the buses at the Kadamba Transport Corporation depots will be operational and each bus will be allowed to ply with just 50% of its passenger capacity. The directorate of transport has yet to issue orders permitting private bus operators to function on their allotted routes. While the government has started buses for state government employees, employees of central government offices, private firms and banks have been left to fend for themselves. Many employees would also take the morning the train from Kullem-Margao to Vasco, which has been suspended. “I used to take the train from Chandor to Vasco. But now I take my bike to Margao and from there, I take the Kadamba bus,” said Adney Gonsalves. “From Monday I don’t know how many people are going to commute on the limited number of buses.” When the Centre allowed government offices to open up with skeletal strength, MPT on April 20 wrote to Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) requesting that MPT employees also be allowed on the buses meant for state government workers. A Davorlim resident working at MPT made the switch from buses to the morning train in January as KTC’s shuttle fares began to rise and the lines became longer. With the lockdown being imposed, she finds herself once again waiting to board the bus, with a sense of deja-vu. “I began travelling by tain in January. Till now MPT was working with 33% staff and from Monday it will be 50% staff. Many people who work in the courts, at government offices and in banks travel by train. From tomorrow, most of these offices will reopen. I don’t know how people will manage to keep social distancing on the buses,” she said. Last mile connectivity is another concern that commuters, especially women, have. “From Monday, if there are going to be more people looking to commute and just one person allowed per seat, how will the buses be sufficient?” asked a private sector employee from Sanvordem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-pvt-sector-resuming-ops-on-monday-commuters-worry-about-space-on-buses/articleshow/75513090.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Conduct rapid antibody tests for Covid-19 surveillance: HC to state||Nagpur: Expressing disappointment over Maharashtra government’s reluctance to use rapid antibody test kits, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court sternly directed it to at least conduct them for the surveillance purpose, since the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has recognized their utility to contain spread of coronavirus. “Their usage becomes all the more significant, considering that their results are said to be quick and hence of assistance to the government in deciding its strategy to deal with areas where there is rapid spread or apprehension of Covid-19 virus,” Justice Manish Pitale said. In response to HC’s earlier directives, collector through additional government pleader (AGP) Deepak Thakre informed that the government received 71,000 rapid antibody test kits for distribution in the Covid-19 hotspots across the state and those could be best used for the surveillance purposes. Quoting the letter by Pune-based Director of Health Services on April 20, AGP said it prohibited usage of rapid antibody test kits till further orders and hence, their allotment couldn’t be undertaken. Further referring to the ICMR’s letter of April 27, he said all states were directed not to conduct these tests. However, assistant solicitor general of India (ASGI) Ulhas Aurangabadkar contended that ICMR’s letter didn’t indicate any policy decision on its part to do away with these tests. He pointed out that those could certainly be undertaken for the purposes of surveillance, although the best test for Covid-19 diagnosis continued to be the RT-PCR swab test. “In view of the specific statement on ICMR’s behalf, this court is of the opinion that the government is not justified in refusing to distribute rapid antibody test kits and in not conducting them for surveillance. In view of the imminent danger of uncontrolled spread of coronavirus, surveillance could certainly be an important part of the strategy to control this pandemic,” justice Pitale said. The directives came while hearing an intervention filed by Dr Anup Marar through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, who pointed out that rapid antibody test kits of only two Chinese firms were returned to them due to faulty results. He also submitted a list of companies providing these kits that included Indian ones. “In view of ICMR’s letter, the government can certainly undertake rapid antibody tests using kits of companies, except two, as their products were found too unreliable. The government should file an affidavit regarding steps taken for undertaking these tests with reliable kits,” the judge said before adjourning the hearing till May 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/conduct-rapid-antibody-tests-for-covid-19-surveillance-hc-to-state/articleshow/75512302.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur locality under curfew as woman tests +ve||Udaipur: Movement was completely restricted and the entire Savina locality within a range of 2km was sealed on Saturday evening after a 28-year-old woman was tested positive for coronavirus. Presently, curfew is effective in four police station areas in the city including Sukher, Pratapnagar, Hiran Magri and Savina. Municipal corporation vehicles carrying disinfectants made trips to sanitise the locality as ambulances rushed in to shift close contacts of the positive patient who were taken to the isolation ward. Additional SP (city) Gopal Swaroop Mewara and ADM (city) Sanjay Singh visited the locality, while medical teams too were pressed in for door-to-door surveys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-locality-under-curfew-as-woman-tests-ve/articleshow/75512346.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||City hotels kick-off home delivery via food aggregators||Jaipur: If you missed five-star dining experience during these lockdown days, the wait is not going to end soon. But if you want to delight your palate with delicacies of your favourite restaurants in the city, you have a choice now. And this does not come at extra costs even as we are in in the throes of an extraordinary pandemic time.Many of the star hotels have started home delivery or take away services in the past one week or so. Some have tied up with food delivery service providers like Zomato or Swiggy, while others are delivering at doorsteps if the order is for Rs 2,500 or so.“We started the service about a week ago. But only in the past few days we have seen orders slowly increasing. I think it will take some time for people to shed the fear of consuming outside food,” said Pankaj Gupta, a senior executive of a star hotel in the state. Gupta said they are delivering through their tie-up with Zomato and Swiggy, but if the order value is more, they deliver at the customer’s house.Another property having pan-India presence said they are a little sceptical to provide home delivery service, but ready to offer take-away services. “We are in process of tying up with Zomato or Swiggy for home delivery. But we ourselves don’t want to expose our staff to the outside environment at this point of time. But we can certainly offer take away services,” said the senior official of the hotel.Demand from customers is mostly for pizza, pasta, and Chinese delicacies. Even some hotels have orders from Singapore and other places to be delivered at their Jaipur house where their kin stay. “It is all done through online. A customer from Singapore placed an order to be delivered at his home in Jaipur. We do not accept cash as we prefer online payments in these times,” said an executive from another star hotel. There are others who are not doing home delivery or take away right now. But all are readying plans to provide home delivery. But most of these hotels said they operate with a skeletal staff as most have gone or been sent on leave. The staff numbers vary from 10 to 50 who have been staying in the hotel to avoid commuting.Many said the home delivery services do not have enough scope for making money, but it’s a strategy for brand positioning. “The rates are reasonably lower than what one would get in normal times. It’s more of a brand building exercise and keeping the staff engaged,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-hotels-kick-off-home-delivery-via-food-aggregators/articleshow/75512723.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||B Vijaysen Reddy sworn in as Telangana high court judge||HYDERABAD: As over a thousand advocates and others watched the proceedings online, lawyer B Vijaysen Reddy took oath as 14th judge of the Telangana high court on Saturday. After registrar general A Venkateswar Reddy read out the appointment letter, Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan administered the oath to the new judge. Justice Rajasheker Reddy attended the ceremony and sat along with the CJ on the bench. Justice Vijaysen will have his first outing as a judge when he sits along with the CJ on Monday to hear the cases. Due to the lockdown norms, family members and a few persons attended the swearing-in ceremony, which was held in the first court hall. Son of Justice B Subhashan Reddy who served as CJ of two high courts, chief of AP State Human Rights Commission and as a Lokayukta, Justice Vijaysen was born on Aug 22, 1970. He has 12 years to serve the judiciary. He has been an advocate for the last 25 years. He had dealt with a large number of cases in constitutional, civil, criminal, service, consumer, land acquisition, urban land ceiling matters, arbitrations, civil supplies, etc., both on original as well as appellate and revisional sides. He has appeared before all the courts and authorities and commanded respect, entirely as a private advocate. He has also trained scores of junior advocates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijaysen-sworn-in-as-high-court-judge/articleshow/75512724.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Mobiles, tobacco thrown into Rajkot jail||Rajkot: An unidentified person was booked on Saturday who allegedly throwing a bundle containing cellphones, charger and tobacco products into the compound of Rajkot Central Jail on Friday. “We saw the bundle that contained two cellphones, two chargers, two packets of cigarettes and five pouches of tobacco lying on the compound. We have booked an unidentified person for the crime on the complaint lodged by the jailer D P Rabari,” said an official from Pradyumannagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mobiles-tobacco-thrown-into-rajkot-jail/articleshow/75511640.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Railways stops advance ticket reservations||MARGAO: The ministry of Railways has announced that the suspension of all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including Konkan Railway, will be extended till May 17. No advance reservations will be made till further notice, a press note by Konkan Railway said. “However, movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places shall be carried out by Shramik Special trains, as required by the state governments, in terms of the guidelines issued under Ministry of Home Affairs,” the press note added. Movement of Ro-Ro, goods and parcel trains will continue to operate to ensure the essential supplies in various parts of the country, it was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/railways-stops-advance-ticket-reservations/articleshow/75513092.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC allows care givers at home but fresh problems arise in Satranjipura||Nagpur: Facing flak for mass evacuation of residents, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed ‘one plus one’ (one patient, one caretaker) to stay back at their homes in city’s Covid-19 hotspot Satranjipura. Around 30 people, including 14 medically and physically unfit persons, are staying in home isolation under the arrangement. A man has been allowed to look after his pregnant wife whose delivery is said to be due in a couple of days. A cattleowner too has been allowed to stay as his cow’s delivery is due anytime. A woman quarantined at VNIT hostel was called back on Friday night after her mentally disabled younger sister refused to eat for three days. However, the care givers complained that some of them did not know how to cook while others said the restrictions on going out had made matters worse for them. Rest of the ailing persons include the paralytic, the bed-ridden, and those suffering from different non-communicable diseases requiring special assistance. Satranjipura zone assistant commissioner Vijay Humne said, “We are preparing a list of how many such persons are staying back. There is a technical reason to give them exemption. They will remain at home only. Their testing will be done at home. At some places, there were one plus four, meaning entire family wanted to stay back for one sick person but that couldn’t be allowed,” he said. The cattleowner countered Humne’s claim saying each person had its own importance in the family and the NMC could have allowed small families to stay together in home isolation. “They gave me permission to take care of my cow. But who will look after me? I don’t know how to cook. This means I have to go to someone else’s home which defeats the purpose of social distancing in a hotspot. I am not having proper meals,” the cattleowner said. The mentally disabled woman’s elder sister said she had entrusted her sister to the cattleowner who lived close by. “All her life she lived with me. She doesn’t speak to anyone except me. Suddenly, she faced the trauma of being separated so she stopped eating. Hence, they sent me back,” the elder woman said. The man said he and his pregnant wife were in a dilemma. “NMC officials say she would be admitted to a government hospital for delivery. We had planned at a private hospital,” he said adding also had to look after his one-and-half-years old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-allows-care-givers-at-home-but-fresh-problems-arise-in-satranjipura/articleshow/75512322.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 3, 2020||Varanasi||Furore over Bhadohi DM letter||VARANASI: An order of Bhadohi district magistrate Rajendra Prasad issued on April 29 asking people to download Aarogya Setu app and also give Rs 100 has created furore as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other opposition leaders utilised it for targeting the Central and sate governments. The DM, however, said on Saturday it was a a clerical mistake and has been corrected. Through a letter (no 163/ Apda lipik/2020, dated April 28) DM Bhadohi had fixed targets for many officials of district administration and head of various departments to ensure installation of Aarogya Setu app. A line of this letter read ‘ensure contribution of Rs 100 only in PM Care Fund by persons following installation of Aarogya Setu App’. This letter went viral on social media, after which many opposition parties started targeting the government and officials. Through her tweet, which also contained the copy of the letter, Priyanka said: “Jab Janta trahimam kar rahi hai, ration, pani, nakadi ki killat hai, aur sarkari mahkama sabse sau-sau rupaye PM care fund k liye vasool raha hai. Tab har najariye se uchit rahega ki PM care fund ki sarkari audit bhi ho?. Desh se bhag chuke bank choro ke 68000 crore maaf huye uska hisaab hona chahiye (When people are in deep crisis of ration, water and cash, the government machinery is realising Rs 100 from people for PM Care Fund. From this point of view, government audit of PM Care Fund should also be done. Account should also be given for the waiver of Rs 68,000 crores of bank defaulters).” Contacted on Saturday, DM Bhadohi said, “It was a clerical error. While reviewing the progress in work of installation of Aarogya Setu app by people in the district, I had fixed target for each official. With other instructions issued in this regard I had asked them to appeal the people to make contribution of Rs 100 in PM care fund. But, this appeal was mentioned in the letter in a different way, which caused nuisance. Another letter with correction in order had also been issued on April 29.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/furore-over-bhadohi-dm-letter/articleshow/75511400.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps into well with two children in Rajsamand||Udaipur: Upset over domestic problems, a woman committed suicide by jumping into a well along with her two children in Chhapri gram panchayat of Rajsamand district on Friday night. The incident occurred in Naya Gaon under Diwer police station area. The woman, identified as Tara Devi (30), wife of Ratan Singh Rawat, left home with her two kids and jumped into the well. Diwer police reached the spot after being informed of the incident around 11pm. The cops saw the body of the 4-year-girl on water surface, which was pulled out in the night, while the bodies of the woman and her 7-year-old son were taken out in the morning. The bodies were kept at the mortuary at Deogarh hospital and the woman’s parents in Pali district were informed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-into-well-with-two-children-in-rajsamand/articleshow/75512345.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Wrong info uploaded in Aarogya Setu app causes panic in Byndoor||UDUPI: Wrong information about the status of a person, with regards to Covid-19, in the Aarogya Setu app, who had travelled from Belagavi, created panic in Udupi on Saturday. The person, hailing from Byndoor, works as a manager in a hotel at Khanapura in Belagavi. He, along with four other staff, had come to Udupi after obtaining the Khanapura tahsildar’s permission on May 1. Before starting from Belagavi on April 29, all the members throat swabs were taken for testing. However, they did not get the report before they left Belagavi. On Saturday, to get the status of the report, the person approached Old Adarsh Hospital, which is the Byndoor Covid hospital, and the staff in the hospital got startled, as they got an alert message from the app, about the person’s Covid-19 status. The hospital personnel immediately contacted the Belgavi health department, and collected information about the person’s report, which to everybody’s relief, tested negative for Covid-19. It is said that an alert was created, due to an update error in the app. DHO Sudheerchandra Sooda said, “The Udupi district administration has sent his throat swab sample for testing once again. As a precautionary measure, he is been admitted to the Covid hospital here. All his family members, and people who travelled with him, have also been quarantined”. The alert message on the app, created panic among the public, and resulted in empty roads in Byndoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wrong-info-uploaded-in-aarogya-setu-app-causes-panic-in-byndoor/articleshow/75510730.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three drunk businessmen go out on a ride in sedan with illegal No. plate, held||KOLKATA: Three businessmen who took a luxury SUV out for a spin late on Thursday night and were arrested on charges of drink driving. The car sported the registration plate of the South Korean consulate, though it was no longer in use by the authorities. Police investigating the case said one of the three arrested businessmen, who owned the car, had deliberately retained the consulate registration plate even after the rental agreement was terminated by the South Korean authorities. “The accused had been illegally using the registration plate since 2019. The police has asked the consulate if they would like to take additional legal action against the accused. He had retained it as consulate vehicles enjoy certain powers. In this case, it was used to ensure that the vehicle was not stopped at any checkpoints during the lockdown,” said a police officer. The car — an Audi Q7 SUV — was stopped at a police checkpoint at the crossing of Russel Street and Middleton Street around 12.05am on Friday. Cops said the car was being driven “well past the speed limit” and the occupants were in an inebriated state. “All occupants were inebriated. We have registered a FIR against them pertaining to various sections of fraud, cheating and criminal conspiracy besides slapping Section 85 of Motor Vehicles Act for drink driving and other sections of the Kolkata Police Act. The case is being investigated by Shakespeare Sarani police,” said DC (south) Meeraz Khalid. The detective department is assisting the traffic wing in the probe. The accused were sent to police custody till May 4. Sources said that the first accused and owner of the car, aged 27, is a resident of Rawdon Street. He has a business of manufacturing manholes and drain covers. The second accused, aged 33, is a resident of Middleton Street and has a scrap iron business. The third accused, aged 45, is a resident of Rawdon Street and trades in pesticides. “They said they wanted to go out for a spin after they had drinks at a friend’s residence,” said an officer. The vehicle was intercepted by a joint team from Shakespeare Sarani and South traffic guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-drunk-bizmen-go-out-on-a-ride-in-sedan-with-illegal-no-plate-held/articleshow/75512731.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Woman, three girls drown in lake near Chennai||CHENNAI: Three girls and a woman of a family drowned in a lake near Manimangalam on the outskirts of Chennai on Saturday. They had gone to wash clothes. The deceased were identified as G Chitra, 40, of Rajiv Gandhi Salai in Karasangal, G Kalaiyarasi, 17, of S V Chathiram in Molachur, R Poornima, 8, of Manimangalam, and K Sathiya, 13, of Karasangal. All these areas are located close to each other. They had gone to the lake along with Chitra’s elder sister T Thilaga, 42, of Thundalkazhani near Karasangal. Thilaga’s younger sister Thatchayini’s son Hari and daughter Poornima initially jumped into the lake, while the others were washing clothes and sitting near the lake. Hari and Poornima, who didn’t know swimming, were trapped in the sludge in the lake, which is located behind the local TNEB office. As the duo cried for help, Thilaga, Chitra and others jumped into the water and tried to rescue them. Chitra managed to save Hari by pulling him out of the water holding his hair. After rescuing him, she again jumped into the water to save the others. On seeing this, Thilaga’s daughter Komala, who was near the lake, cried for help. On hearing her cries, some villagers rushed to the spot and jumped into the lake with the help of ropes. They rescued all those trapped in the water and alerted the ‘108’ ambulance service. All the victims were sent to the government hospital in Chromepet. Doctors at the hospital examined and declared Chitra, Sathiya, Poornima and Kalaiyarasi as brought dead, while Thilaga and Hari were admitted for treatment. Sathiya was Thilaga’s brother-in-law’s daughter. The Manimangalam police visited the spot and held an inquiry with the villagers. Chitra and her sister Meena, of Karasangal, Thatchayini, Poornima, Hari, along with another close relative Ganesh’s daughter Kalaiyarasi had visited Thilaga’s house in the neighbourhood during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-3-girls-drown-in-lake-near-chennai/articleshow/75512729.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Online schooling: 10k teachers to be trained in Goa||PANAJI: A four-day online training programme will be conducted by the directorate of education (DoE) for nearly 10,500 teachers in the state from May 5. The training will include teaching and monitoring learning outcomes through online platforms. Teachers will also learn how to access open source teaching resources online. The DoE and the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), is carrying out the training through resource persons from the Adhyayan Foundation of Tata Trusts and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad. The training will be covered in two phases and will involve primary, secondary and higher secondary school teachers and heads. In the first phase, as many as 406 teachers and school heads at the primary, secondary and higher secondary level will be trained as master trainers. Faculty from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) will be trained online by the experts from TISS and Adhyayan Foundation from May 5 to 8. Subsequently, these master trainers will provide online training to the teachers from May 13 to16, said the DoE. “The programme aims to enable teachers to plan their academic year, taking into account the number of teaching days, summative assessments, events and activities. It will also enable teachers to track the learning of the students ,” said the DoE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-schooling-10k-teachers-to-be-trained/articleshow/75513094.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Two booked for organising shradh feast||JODHPUR: Inspite of coronavirus spreading its tentacles in Jodhpur, some people in rural areas continue to overlook the advisories of social distancing and mass gathering. In one such incident in Bilara on Saturday, sons of a woman who passed away recently organised a mass feast (mrityu bhoj) after her death. Following information, police and the SDM rushed to the spot where the feast was in progress and dispersed the people. “We seized all the materials and have registered a case against the sons, caterer and tent owner,” said police. Hanski Devi of Kango ka Navora village had passed away 12 days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-booked-for-organising-shradh-feast/articleshow/75512342.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 claims 2 lives,67 more test positive||Aurangabad: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said 67 more persons tested positive for coronavirus from Aurangabad at its Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) on Friday and Saturday, taking the total Covid-19 count in the district to 244. Two coronavirus-related deaths were also reported over Friday and Saturday, taking the death toll to nine. On Friday alone, 39 positive cases were confirmed in the city. The new patients included 18 residents of the Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, four from Noor Colony, four from Asefiya Colony, four from Gulabwadi-Padampura, three from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura and one each from Vijayshri Colony (Cidco N-5), Wadgaon, Mehmoodpura, Qile Ark, Bhadkal Gate and City Chowk. On Saturday, the count further rose by 28. Those who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday included five from Noor Colony, 11 from Baijipura, three from Kailas Nagar, two from Samata Nagar, two from Qile Ark, two from Town Hall and one each from Jai Bheem Nagar, Gautam Budhha Nagar and Sanjay Nagar. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said the cases are from the containment zones created by the AMC. One of the new patients is a 17-year-old girl who had travelled to the city on a private vehicle from Rajasthan’s Kota. She has been admitted to a private hospital. On Saturday, a 65-year-old woman from the Noor Colony died while undergoing treatment at GMCH. Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH, said she was brought to the hospital in critical condition on Saturday. The cause of her death is bilateral pneumonia due to Covid-19 in case of diabetes mellitus with hypertension with hyperthyroidism. On Friday, a 47-year-old man had died at GMCH. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said the cause of his death is pulmonary embolism secondary to Covid-19 associated coagulopathy with bilateral pneumonia with respiratory distress syndrome. Of the 244 cases so far, 24 have recovered and nine have died. The remaining 211 patients are under treatment. As many as 21 cases are under treatment at GMCH, 121 at district civil hospital, 8 in two private hospitals and remaining are in the Covid care centre of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, district information office said. GMCH medical superintendent Suresh Harbade said the new building of the super-speciality block with 248 beds will be opened for Covid care soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-claims-2-lives67-more-test-positive/articleshow/75511661.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 3, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Teen made police outpost in charge||BAHRAICH: When this 14-year-old, wielding a stick, takes a round of his Mihipurwa locality of Bahriach town, residents do listen to him. Appreciating his effective ways to enfoce the lockdown, the local SHO has made him a police outpost in charge for a day. Meet Saumya Agwaral, who himself aspires to become a cop. "Remember that lockdown rules are to be followed. If there is any lockdown violation, then I am the police outpost in-charge, and I will register a case and send the guilty to jail," Saumya Agarwal says. When the teenager reiterates PM Modi's appeal for 'Do Gaj Doori Bahut Zaroori', people like his style and take him seriously. "This is the age of community policing... We are going ahead with moderate policing and presenting us as a friend," said police chief Vipin Mishra. Motipur police station in charge JP Shukla said, "When police outpost in charge of Mihipurwa Ajay Tiwari came to know that Saumya was interested in joining the force, he tried an experiment. Saumya was declared as the in charge of Mihipurwa outpost before the public. A police team is sent with Saumya instead of Ajay Tiwari." Tiwari said the experiment has proved successful and people are following the lockdown. Bahraich MP Akshaibar Lal praised the concept, and said it will make people understand the importance of lockdown. He also praised Saumya, and advised him to look after himself, follow social distancing, but at the same time focus on studies, so that he can realise his dream of joining the police force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/teen-made-police-outpost-in-charge/articleshow/75511445.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Varanasi||Third coronavirus positive case in Gorakhpur, second in Deoria district||GORAKHPUR: A 43-year-old man in Gorakhpur and a 32-year old man in Deoria tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday night, as per reports from BRD Medical College. Now, there are three positive cases in Gorakhpur and two in Deoria. On Wednesday, three people of Nepalese origin came to Gorakhpur from Mumbai in an ambulance and were quarantined at the the district hospital. On Thursday, their samples were sent to BRD Medical College for test, and on Friday night, the test results showed that a 43-year old man of Nepalese origin, whose family lives in Gorakhpur’s Bichia area, was positive, while the other two were negative. The man was working in Mumbai, said Gorakhpur CMO Dr Srikant Triwari. Earlier in Gorakhpur, a 34-year-old woman who returned from Delhi and a 50-year-old man of Hata Buzurg village under Urua area of the district were found positive. In Deoria, a 32-year-old man of Bhainsa Dabar village of Tarkulwa area returned from Mumbai and was quarantined at a hospital. His report which arrived on Friday night was found to be Covid positive, confirmed Deoria CMO Dr Alok Pandey. Earlier in Deoria , a 45-year-old man who arrived from Mumbai two days before was found positive on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/third-corona-positive-case-in-gorakhpur-second-in-deoria-dist/articleshow/75511430.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Video on social distancing starring actor Subodh Bhave released||Nashik: The Nashik city police has shot a video featuring actor Subodh Bhave who appealed to the people to stay indoors as much as possible in view of lockdown and maintain social distancing when stepping outside for emergency purposes. The video is being circulated on social media. It was inaugurated by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal after the flag hoisting ceremony of Maharashtra Din at the district collectorate on Friday. The inauguration also saw the presence of divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil, district collector Suraj Mandhare, IG (Special) Chhering Dorje. Nashik Municipal Corporation commissioner Radhakrishna Game, SP (Nashik Rural) Arti Singh and ZP CEO Leena Bansod were among other dignitaries who attended the inauguration. In the video, Subodh Bhave explained how the lockdown can be made successful through small attempts. While giving tips on maintaining social distancing and cleanliness to contain the spread of Covid-19, the film star has also requested people to co-operate with the government authorities and administration. He has also appealed to people to do away with the notion that injustice is meted out on them due to lockdown. He said that if people stayed home, they would stay safe from novel coronavirus and also help in containing the spread of infection. Senior police officers thanked their creative team for making a small yet powerful effort that will surely pass on the message of the importance of social distancing, cleanliness and being vigilant at all times. Police have taken hard and sincere efforts to spread awareness about Covid-19 among police officials and employees. Senior police officers said that it was important to spread awareness through the video as Covid-19 has created a huge problem for the world and has affected more than 32 lakh people worldwide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/video-on-social-distancing-starring-actor-subodh-bhave-released/articleshow/75511659.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Ratanpur turns a lifeline for migrants entering Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Long queues of migrant workers waiting for their registration and screening at the Ratanpur checkpost on Gujarat border is signalling a crisis-like situation. Every day, hundreds of workers gather at the border to enter Rajasthan. They have to wait for at least one day before they can be ferried to their respective cities in state transport buses. This leaves them with limited food and no facilities. The border was opened on April 26 for those coming from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh having valid permissions. The news spread like wildfire in the industrial hubs of Gujarat which triggered mass exodus of workers and their families. While some rushed to the border on foot, others rode bicycles to reach the destination. Rajesh Nayak, SDO, Bichhiwara, said that they have bolstered the screening teams by 60 at the border to expedite the clearance. “Such a huge gathering is unexpected, but we made arrangements which are required to minimize the waiting time of the migrants,” said Sharma. He added that officially 28,000 migrants have entered the state. “The officials initially denied entry to those coming without any permission but on realising that they were entering into the state via villages forced them to open gates for all of them,” said Krashnaraj Singh, block president of Congress in Bichhiwara, who is helping the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ratanpur-turns-a-lifeline-for-migrants-entering-rajasthan/articleshow/75512335.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: State buses likely to ply on Monday, with 50% capacity||PANAJI: After discussing the resumption of public transport at a high-level meeting held on Saturday, the state is likely to restart bus services from Monday onwards. This move comes after the Union ministry’s decision to mark Goa as a green zone in the Covid-19 pandemic, following which guidelines to restart the operation of buses with up to 50% capacity were notified. “The transport department and the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd have been working out a plan to resume operations. However, operating only 50% is not a profitable venture for private bus operators due to which they are not very keen to start right away. We will come out with a complete plan on Sunday,” transport director, Rajan Satardekar said. On Saturday, a meeting was held with the state executive committee chaired by the chief secretary to discuss and take a decision with regards to transport. Satardekar said that the private bus operators will discuss their matter with the transport minister, after which the department will decide the resumption of their services. “After approval from the government, we will officially come out with the plan. We are trying to resume the operation of Kadamba buses on some routes based on directions from the transport department,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-buses-likely-to-ply-on-monday-with-50-capacity/articleshow/75513097.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai opens for business, all shops to work 11am-5pm from Monday||CHENNAI: The state cabinet which met under chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday endorsed the Centre’s decision to extend the nationwide lockdown till May 17 in the state, but announced a raft of relaxations for non-containment zones from Monday. Industrial establishments in SEZs, export units, IT and IT-enabled services shall operate across the state, and all industries, including textile units, shall operate from May 6 in rural and town panchayat areas, subject to certain conditions. The announcement came after a three-hour meet at the secretariat. “District collectors/Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner may make arrangements and permit industries to start operation from May 6. The state government will monitor the spread of the virus and will announce further relaxations when infection rate comes down,” the CM said. Skilled workers such as plumbers, electricians, AC mechanics, carpenters, home care providers and domestic helps will require permission from Chennai Corporation commissioner/collector to resume work. The state said its relaxation norms, including those covering operation of industries, shall work within the scope of the moderation specified by the Centre for red, orange and green zones. In non-containment zones of Chennai, industries have to arrange own vehicles for transporting staff. “A careful analysis has been done in terms of risk factors, areas where opening up could lead to spread and where we need to be careful. The state is well within the limits set by the Centre and we looked at other states too. In the present circumstance, this is the best that could happen,” said an expert committee member. Medical experts had told the government that lockdown had served its purpose and phased exit was the way forward.  E-passes for employees and organisations can be got through web portal, https://tnepass.tnega.org. Sources said the government considered two options for defining the regulations 426sqkm-wide Chennai Corporation limit and 1,189sqkm-wide Chennai Metropolitan Area limit. But it finally zeroed in on Greater Chennai police jurisdiction that ends with Muttukadu in the densely-populated south Chennai. MSME sector, rural industries and standalone shops require no special permission from the government to resume operation. Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association joint secretary S Vasudevan welcomed the move. “Most of our requests have been considered by the government. Clear standard operating procedure need to be circulated and movement of employees could be allowed with self-declaration by the employer with address and ID proof. Getting permission from district industries centres will be practically difficult for MSMEs, ” he said. The Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Ramkumar Ramamoorthy said the state government had taken a cautious-yet-pragmatic approach to relax the guidelines for most categories. “These relaxations will enable industries to slow-crank operations with limited person-power, and in a calibrated fashion, ready themselves for broad-based operations in the weeks and months ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-opens-for-business-all-shops-to-work-11am-5pm-from-monday/articleshow/75512735.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Admins gear up to send 17,000 workers home||Aurangabad: With the Union ministry of home affairs giving the approval to send stranded people home, the administrations of the eight districts in Marathwada have started issuing passes to migrants workers for intra-state travel. The district administrations are also undertaking large-scale preparations to send those coming from other states. Authorities said they have started receiving applications from the tehsil offices as well as the police portal designated for receiving applications for inter-district as well as inter-state travel passes. Migrant workers who are unable to fill online forms have been asked to reach out to the nearest tehsil office, fill a manual form and submit a medical fitness certificate along with their identity proof.  When contacted, authorities in the district administration unanimously maintained that in accordance with the recent guidelines issued by the MHA, they were in the process of chalking out a detailed plan by coordinating with their counterparts in other states for making arrangements to send the workers to their respective hometowns. Parbhani district collector DM Mugalikar told TOI, “Depending on the number of applications we receive for each of the destinations, appropriate arrangements will be done.” On Saturday, South Central Railways’ Nanded division issued a statement informing that none of the passenger trains would be functional before May 17—the day when the third phase of the lockdown is supposed to end. However, goods as well as parcel trains will continue to run. All the migrant workers, tourists, students, travellers and others who are stranded due to the lockdown have been identified and registered by the state government. The respective administrations will be able to avail benefit of Shramik special trains. The railway authorities have appealed to people to abstain from directly reaching the railway stations and seek tickets for travelling to different destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/admins-gear-up-to-send-17000-workers-home/articleshow/75511671.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 3, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabd HC nixes government orders to disengage DGCs||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has quashed several government orders disengaging the district government counsels (DGCs) working in several district courts across the state. However, while giving this judgment, the court made it clear that quashing of such orders did not result in re-engagement of the petitioners or their continuance on the same post. The matter shall be decided by authorities concerned afresh, keeping in view the observations made in this judgment as well as legal provisions within a period of four month, the court further directed. Allowing several petitions filed by Shyam Narayan Yadav and others, a division bench comprising Justice Bala Krishna Narayana and Justice Prakash Padia held that the GOs under challenge were bad in law for “total non-application of mind and the order being supported by no reason whatsoever, hence, it would render the order passed as arbitrary”. The court, while allowing the petitions, observed: “In the manner of appointment of Government Law Officer/Counsel/Pleader, it is the duty of the Government to act in a fair, reasonable, objective and in a non discriminative manner.” The court also held that that the government does not have an “absolute right” to terminate such appointments at any time without specifying any reason and the same will be violative of Article 14 (right to equality) and Article 16 (equality of opportunity in the matter of public employment) of the Constitution. Elaborating the procedural aspect, the court said, “It is only when government counsels work or conduct is found to be unsatisfactory then it is so reported to the government for appropriate orders. If the report is satisfactory, the rule requires that he may be furnished with a deed of engagement for a term not exceeding three years.” The petitioners’ contention was that as per law, district judge of the district court concerned recommends the name of counsels to the state government after appreciating their work. According to the petitioners, the concerned district judges had appreciated the quality of their work, including their knowledge, professional conduct and public reputation. Nevertheless, the government had refused to renew their term “without assigning any reasons” as to why the recommendations made by the district judges were not accepted. However, while opposing the petition, the state counsel had argued that DGCs do not enjoy any statutory right in respect to the renewal of their tenure, and on the other hand the state government enjoys discretionary power in this regard. This judgment was delivered on April 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-nixes-govt-orders-to-disengage-dgcs/articleshow/75511488.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Community radio stations to continue kids’ education in remote areas||Dehradun: In order to reach out to students through multiple means, the state education department has decided to use community radio to keep children in remote areas of the state engaged, while their education gets back on track. The department has joined hands with an NGO, ‘Room to Read’, which will create educational content for school children, targeting the age group of five to 10, and broadcast them in the form of audio clips through community radio stations. The learning content is not exam-oriented yet, but will be moulded according to the students’ academic syllabi based on the kind of feedback the project gets. Several community radio platforms based in different districts of Uttarakhand have been shortlisted to broadcast the audio clips from May 4. Initially, the broadcast will be done only by Mandakini Ki Awaaz (in Rudraprayag) and Himgiri Ki Awaaz (in Dehradun). Stations like Kumaon Vani (Nainital), Henwalvani (Tehri Garhwal) and NIVH Hello Dehradun (Dehradun) are expected to join in later. “The community radios have been chosen (for the job) as they have excellent connectivity in remote areas,” said Mukul Kumar Sati, state project director of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. Pushplata Rawat, state coordinator of ‘Room to Read’, said, “We are developing the content keeping in mind primary school students. We have turned some library books into audio formats. Apart from that, some interesting games or jingles will also be played during the broadcast. Also, we plan to teach life lessons in the form of stories. The total length of the audio will not be more than 15 minutes, and it will be played in parts. In the long term, we plan to mould our content according the school syllabi.” The education department has also released a WhatsApp number (8445111101), for anybody who might be interested to submit their feedback on the project and willing to contribute to the content that is broadcast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/community-radio-stations-to-continue-kids-education-in-remote-areas/articleshow/75511675.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt deputes 125 nurses from other hospitals to Civil||Ahmedabad: Following reports that Covid patients had to be looked after by their kin in the corona ward due to the shortage of staff, the state government has deputed 125 nurses from several hospitals to Civil Hospital in Asarwa. These staff nurses are currently employed at hospitals and Community Health Centres (CHC) in Ahmedabad and nearby districts. These nurses were ordered to report for duty on Friday. They have been deputed here for 15 days as of now. The government’s order is to depute two to five nurses from CHCs in Dhandhuka, Sanand, Bopal and other such places. There are other hospitals like the general hospital in Kheda, from where 20 nurses have been deputed to Civil Hospital. Twenty nurses from the municipal urban health centre at Khokhra, which is also known as Rukshmaniben Referral Hospital, have been shifted to the Asarwa facility.Commenting on the staff shortage, a senior doctor at Civil Hospital said, “Because of the rush of Covid-19 patients, the cancer hospital had to be converted into a coronavirus isolation facility.” The shortage of staff is obvious in the Civil Hospital, the doctor said. “The recent circular placing staff nurses on deputation here shows that many more healthcare personnel will be deputed here from other districts which have felt a lesser impact of the epidemic,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-deputes-125-nurses-from-other-hospitals-to-civil/articleshow/75512745.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Docs at civil hosp told to take care while handling Covid-19 patients||Nashik: After a physician of the Nashik civil hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, senior doctors have instructed all the medical staff in the hospital to take maximum precautions and not leave any chance which could lead to infection. Senior medical officers of the civil hospital said that all doctors and medical staff have been provided with PPE kits, N95 masks and top quality gloves along with other safety equipment to ensure that they do not get infected with the virus. The doctors and other medical staff were yet again sensitized about the precautionary measures they must take while dealing with Covid-19 cases as well as protect themselves from contracting the infection. Sanjay Gangurde of the Nashik civil hospital said that the hospital premises is being sprayed with the necessary medicine to leave no chance of infection. “There is a separate team of doctors, nurses and medical staff for treating Covid-19 patients. The concerned doctor who got infected with the virus was only into screening the newly-arrived patients,” he said. The physician had worn the complete safety kit while taking the details of the newly-arrived Covid-19 suspects. The suspected patient stood at a distance of three feet from the concerned physician when he gave his details to the latter. If the physician thinks that the throat swab of the suspect should be taken, the procedure of the same is carried out by another team of doctors and nurses. Medicos at the civil hospital said that though they were taking all the necessary precautions while handling Covid-19 suspects and patients, one is never able to gauge which corner of the huge 540-bed hospital would be unsafe. Since patients from across Nashik and other districts come to the civil hospital for treatment, the risk of contracting the infection is high, said senior doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/docs-at-civil-hosp-told-to-take-care-while-handling-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75511672.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||PCR staffer becomes first cop in city to test positive||Vadodara: The city police registered their first case of coronavirus on Saturday when a head constable tested positive for the virus. The head constable posted in police control room (PCR) van of City police station had complained of fever on April 29. "He got tested for coronavirus and his results came on Saturday. He tested positive following which he was admitted to a hospital," said K G Bhaati, joint police commissioner. The eight cops who used to travel with this head constable in the PCR van too have been quarantined. The head constable was from police headquarters and his duty was at City police station. His family and the block where he was staying in police lines too have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pcr-staffer-becomes-first-cop-in-city-to-test-positive/articleshow/75511067.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||40 booked in Bairagarh for playing badminton and strolling||BHOPAL: City police on Friday registered 64 cases against people violating lockdown order in the past 24 hours. The accused were booked under section 188, 269 and 270 of IPC. In some cases, sections of National Disaster Management Act were also imposed on the violators. Police also took help of drone cameras to book the violators, especially in containment areas. Cops seized the vehicles of those found roaming on streets without any valid reason and registered cases against them under Motor Vehicles Act. Since March 22, 2969 cases have been registered against the violators. Cops also booked people found loitering on streets without wearing masks. Cases were registered against the offenders, including grocery shop owners at various police stations in the city. Bairagarh police on Saturday evening raided Dussehra Maidan and surrounding area where a lot of people were violating the lockdown order and enjoying evening walk or playing badminton. Police registered cases against around 40 violators and took them to police station in form of a parade. The cops made videos of the violators. Earlier, a video of people roaming on streets in Bairagarh and playing badminton had gone viral on social media. SDOP Bairagarh, Deepak Nayak, said that police had been requesting everyone to stay in their homes but many people were violating the lockdown in Bairagarh. Police had information that violators come for evening walk and other sports activities at Dussehra Maidan and surrounding streets in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/40-booked-in-bairagarh-for-playing-badminton-strolling/articleshow/75512737.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Workers’ flash strike hits garbage collection in half of city||Nagpur: Door-to-door garbage collection was affected in half the city on Saturday as around 1,200 workers from Zones 1 to 5 working with AG Enviro went on a flash strike protesting retrenchment the company was undertaking. The areas affected are under Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Nehru Nagar and Dhantoli zones that have institutional quarantine centres like Symbiosis College, VNIT, Vanamati and MLA Hostel. The agitated employees, however, withdrew their stir by evening and resumed service. Sources said the company wanted to retrench excess manpower out of 1200 it had recruited including many from previous garbage operator Kanak Resources. Earlier, it had accommodated the excess employees but lockdown in the city had reduced quantum of garbage affecting the firm’s revenue. So it expressed its inability to pay its excess staff, said a source in the firm. “After starting the service, AG Enviro realized it was overstaffed and it shortlisted around 250 employees as surplus,” sources said. Now, The firm also issued termination notice to its excess staff which enraged AG Enviro employees who stopped work this morning. The workers also staged demonstration in Jaitala and Reshimbagh. Upon learning of the agitation, deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar, who also heads solid waste management department, held a meeting with the workers’ representative and company officials. But the talks failed to get the workers to resume the garbage collection work. Irate employees disputed the company’s claim of having surplus workers. “The firm is giving one or the other reason to prove that it had excess manpower and trying unscrupulous ways to sack employees,” they said. AG Enviro employees also sought district guardian minister Nitin Raut’s intervention. The employees alleged every month the firm deducted their salaries and provided work to one employee for only 20 days. Sources said it was not the first time employees of AG Enviro had gone on strike. Since November 2019, the garbage collection employees had halted work at least three times. Dr Dasarwar said after being warned of disciplinary action, the firm managed to convince the employees to resume work from Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/workers-flash-strike-hits-garbage-collection-in-half-of-city/articleshow/75512338.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 3, 2020||Amaravati||Village secretariats to soon get 15-bed quarantine facility in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The government has decided to open quarantine facilities in all village secretariats in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas as people stranded in other states are likely to return home in the next few days due to the relaxation in lockdown norms. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, during his review meeting on Saturday, told officials to make the required arrangements for the same. As of now, most village secretariats are functioning from government buildings. In some places, buildings have been taken on rent to house the secretariats. All of them would now be turned into quarantine facilities with a minimum bed strength of 15. The chief minister also asked all government departments to coordinate pandemic mitigation in the state and ensure the virus is controlled at the primary contact level. He directed officials to press into service at least 500 RTC buses to supply essentials to people in the lockdown areas. The buses would be remodelled to carry perishables like milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits. Some of these buses could also be used for health workers with basic medical facilities for both corona and general diseases, he told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/village-secretariats-to-soon-get-15-bed-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75516432.cms||Gopi Dara
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Village secretariats to soon get 15-bed quarantine facility in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The government has decided to open quarantine facilities in all village secretariats in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas as people stranded in other states are likely to return home in the next few days due to the relaxation in lockdown norms. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, during his review meeting on Saturday, told officials to make the required arrangements for the same. As of now, most village secretariats are functioning from government buildings. In some places, buildings have been taken on rent to house the secretariats. All of them would now be turned into quarantine facilities with a minimum bed strength of 15. The chief minister also asked all government departments to coordinate pandemic mitigation in the state and ensure the virus is controlled at the primary contact level. He directed officials to press into service at least 500 RTC buses to supply essentials to people in the lockdown areas. The buses would be remodelled to carry perishables like milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits. Some of these buses could also be used for health workers with basic medical facilities for both corona and general diseases, he told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/village-secretariats-to-soon-get-15-bed-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75511669.cms||Gopi Dara
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Village secretariats to soon get 15-bed quarantine facility in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The government has decided to open quarantine facilities in all village secretariats in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas as people stranded in other states are likely to return home in the next few days due to the relaxation in lockdown norms. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, during his review meeting on Saturday, told officials to make the required arrangements for the same. As of now, most village secretariats are functioning from government buildings. In some places, buildings have been taken on rent to house the secretariats. All of them would now be turned into quarantine facilities with a minimum bed strength of 15. The chief minister also asked all government departments to coordinate pandemic mitigation in the state and ensure the virus is controlled at the primary contact level. He directed officials to press into service at least 500 RTC buses to supply essentials to people in the lockdown areas. The buses would be remodelled to carry perishables like milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits. Some of these buses could also be used for health workers with basic medical facilities for both corona and general diseases, he told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/village-secretariats-to-soon-get-15-bed-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75516430.cms||Gopi Dara
May 3, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Three hotspots sealed, lanes being sanitised||PRAYAGRAJ: After four more persons tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Prayagraj district, officials of the health department carried out containment exercise at Lukerganj, Saidabad, and Bhaluha (Koraon) villages on Saturday. Apart from sealing these three new hotspot areas, the health department teams also conducted sanitisation exercise and collected details and started screening of the people living there. On Friday, four persons were tested positive for Covid-19 infection taking the tally in the Prayagraj district to nine. Of these, one patient has recovered while rest of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 Level One hospital in Kotwa. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer, Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The health department has conducted containment exercise in Lukerganj, Saidabad and Bhaluha village (Koraon) as these patients were residents of these areas”. The sanitisation exercise of their homes and pockets have also been conducted and health department teams were compiling details of the residents in these areas. Testing of all people living within one km radius of the city area (Luckerganj) and within three km radius area of rural areas (Saidabad and Koraon) would be completed at the earliest, Dr Sahai said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-hotspots-sealed-lanes-being-sanitised/articleshow/75511678.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gram Yoddhas stand guard against corona||Moraiya villageAhmedabad: On the outskirts of Zanu village in Daskroi taluka, a group of youths stop a bike on Thursday morning. The man identifies himself as a health worker and shows his identity card after which his details are noted in a register and he is allowed to go. But first, his temperature is recorded with a thermal gun which was procured by the panchayat a fortnight ago.Zanu villageHarpalsinh Vaghela, talati-cum-mantri of the village, says that ever since the lockdown was announced, the village has been implementing it stringently. “A group of village youths are stationed right at the entrance of the village with the temperature gun and a register. They form our Gram Yoddha or fighters of the village,” he says. “They know everybody in the village. Thus, they ensure that nobody goes out or comes in without a valid reason. We even encourage those working in farms to stay on the farms if possible.”Arun Mahesh Babu, DDO Ahmedabad, said that the Gram Yoddha scheme was initiated to encourage participation of the local population. “In majority of these villages, residents have taken it upon themselves to ensure that they don’t invite Covid-19 with any misstep. The initiative is appreciated and is replicated in the state,” he said.Ahmedabad district, except the AMC area, has recorded 42 Covid-19 positive cases so far including nine in Bopal and six in Jetalpur as on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gram-yoddhas-stand-guard-against-corona/articleshow/75512762.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Goa has eye on industries moving out of China: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that the Goa government would get in touch with industries that want to move out of China and into India. The CM told reporters that the government, through the Investment Promotion Board (IPB), would contact these industries so as to attract investment to Goa so that the state overcomes the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“We welcome industries that want to move to India to come to Goa,” he said. “We will grant them permission through a single window. We have plots available with the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC),” he added. On Thursday, PM Narendra Modi signalled a major push to boost investment in the country and capture a part of the supply chain that is expected to move out of China as global corporations look to diversify their production base in the aftermath of Covid-19. In Goa, the economic revival committee formed by the state government, in its final report, said that in view of the global trade war between China and a few nations, as well as the post-Covid-19 shift in global sentiment away from China, there is a likelihood of some leading MNCs trying to shift their supply chain out of China. “While the Indian government will make attempts to attract some of these investments, it is strongly recommended that the state government lobbies very hard to attract a few to Goa. Ideally, we should look at Mothership (a freight company) coming to Goa along with its entire supply chain,” the committee said. “We need to come out with a fresh industrial policy for the state in line with the draft industrial policy released by the government of India,” it said. “We need to strengthen manufacturing and work on export-led growth with thrust on design for sectors like engineering, electronics, packaging, etc.”The past 18 months has seen a marked slowdown across the manufacturing sector in Goa, except for a few sectors. Additionally, there has been a flight of industries from Goa and a fall in employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-has-eye-on-industries-moving-out-of-china-cm/articleshow/75513099.cms||Murari Shetye
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||People asked to wait for software devpt||Aurangabad: Beed district collector has asked the people, who are stranded in the district and want to go back to their native places, to wait for the software that the state government is developing for travel permissions. People do not have to call him, or his office, for travel permissions, he said. Many district authorities had started providing assistance to those wanting to return to their native places by issuing website links for online forms, email ids for sending applications and phone numbers to get travel permission. However, Beed district has chosen to take this decision as far as issuing travel permissions are concerned. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar on Saturday asked media personnel to widely publicise that Maharashtra government is preparing a mobile application to issue travel permissions. “All the people stranded in Beed should wait for the software to be released,”said Rekhawar. This move has put those waiting eagerly to return home from the district in a tight spot. In another development, the Beed district administration is taking the help of an application to deliver essential commodities at the doorsteps of the residents. The app called Needly is available on android.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/people-asked-to-wait-for-software-devpt/articleshow/75511691.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP: After nightmare in lockdown, migrants vow not to leave home||BHOPAL: Guddu, who was once very fascinated to work outside his hometown, is no more interested in working away from his home in Betul district after he ended his almost a month long nightmare at Misrod station on Saturday. Guddu is not the only migrant worker who has developed the feeling of not working outside home after being stuck-up in an unknown city like Nashik without any work. Guddu was a construction labour in Mumbai. After lockdown was declared he and his other friends decided to walk. “I had a friend in Nashik. By the time we reached he left home for his native town in Seoni district. As Nashik was an unknown city and we had not enough money we found it better to stay in the shelter homes provided by the local administration. Now, I do not want to work outside any more. Whatever I earn in my place I will be happy but working outside is no more my dream,” said Guddu. Hailing the Nashik administration for providing them good stay and regular food, migrant workers said they were keen to come back home. “After boarding the train I did not look back. I wanted to reach Bhopal as early as possible. I could not sleep for a single minute. After reaching Bhopal I immediately called my family and inform them that soon I would meet them,” a jubilant Ram Prasad said. Several workers could not even collect their money from against their work from their contractors. “I was working at a factory in Mumbai. After lockdown was declared, the factory was closed down and I reached Nashik. Now, I am going back to home, but I do not whether the factory would return my dues or not. I am happy to be back home,” said Sunil Yadav of Betul district. There were young migrants, who started working a few days before the lockdown. “I worked for hardly a week and this lockdown was imposed. I had no option except to come back home,” said 20-year-old Munna of Bhind district. Some workers were accompanied by a few family members with their kids and reached Bhopal from special train. “We are going to Bhind. I and my husband used to work at a place in Nashik. We are back home but no work in hand. God knows what will be our future,” said a woman who refused to disclose her name as tears rolled down from her eyes. These migrant workers were sent by bus to their respective districts without charging any money from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-nightmare-in-lockdown-migrants-vow-not-to-leave-home/articleshow/75512748.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Labourers head home in special trains from Surat||Bhubaneswar: A ‘Shramik Special’ train carrying around 1,200 Odia migrant labourers from Gujarat started from Surat on Saturday afternoon. It is heading towards Jagannathpur station, on the outskirts of Berhampur. People boarded the train after health screening. The local administration also provided them food and water. Another special train may leave Surat late on Saturday night or Sunday morning for Berhampur. Migrant labourers are getting enrolled to board it. Around 10 am on Friday, a special train carrying 1,150 Odia migrants started from Aluva station near Kochi, Kerala. It will arrive in Odisha on Sunday morning and will have stoppages at Jagannathpur near Berhampur and Khurda Road. It will stop at Duvvada station in Andhra Pradesh for food and train maintenance works. Manoj Kumar Mishra, IT secretary and commissioner rail coordination, told the media that the “Labourers coming from Kerala belong to 23 districts of Odisha. As many as 382 labourers out of the 1,150 are from Kandhamal district followed by 283 from Kendrapada district and 130 from Ganjam.”. He said the state is carrying out Operation Subh Yatra to bring back the stranded Odia labourers. “Twelve teams were formed by the Kerala government to identify, register and screen the health of the migrant labourers. The team said these labourers had no symptoms of Covid-19. They were taken in buses to the railway stations by following social distancing norms,” he added. Mishra said Kerala government has shared the details of the passengers with Odisha. “The 1,150 labourers have registered with Covid-19 portal of the state government. We have started making arrangements to take them to institutional quarantine homes in gram panchayats,” he added. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Friday said stranded workers returning by trains will be received at certain specific railway stations. They will be shifted to the quarantine centres by the government team after check up. “We will send them in buses to their district and gram panchayats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/labourers-head-home-in-special-trains-from-surat/articleshow/75510773.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Every information online is not authentic, police warns citizens||Nashik: The city police have warned people to be cautious of the contact numbers they find online, as it may be a new trick of cybercriminals to steal their hard-earned money According to police, any online search engine works on suggest and edit system and hence it is not necessary that all the information that is available on them should be authentic. Amid the nation-wide lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, many people are relying on online search engines to get numbers of various institutes, companies, etc for their personal work. This might be a trap put in by the online fraudsters. The cyberpolice said that it was extremely important that people get the phone numbers of service providers, companies, courier companies, traders, shopkeepers, etc acquired from their authorised websites. The police said that fixed-line numbers were a much safer option than the cellphone numbers that were available on the internet. Further, it was also important that people should never provide any confidential information of one’s bank account while buying or taking any online service from a service providing company, courier company, bank, shopkeeper, etc. The police said that awareness in this regard was important as people are staying in their houses and making use of the internet for their daily work. Sometimes also seeking information about services which they could avail online. Cybercriminals take advantage of such situations and citizens fall into trap of such online fraudsters, due to which the police decided to issue a press release in the interest of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/every-information-online-is-not-authentic-police-warns-citizens/articleshow/75511679.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Zonal DCPs to issue passes for stranded people||Nagpur: The passes for inter-district and inter-state travel from cities would now be issued by zonal deputy commissioners of Police (DCP) toenable stranded people reach their home. The applications are being received online. District collectors had earlier been made nodal officer for such movements from the district. In a fresh order, collectors have been retained as nodal officers for rural parts only while zonal DCPs have been assigned the responsibilities for cities that are police commissionerates. City police chief BK Upadhyay said the focus would be more on containment areas now. State government has designated zonal DCPs to receive the applications for interstate movements, send them to the authorities concerned at the destination and issue passes after approval is received. DCP Neelotpal said people are being assisted in filling up forms the process for which has already started. “Applicants are required to upload a certificate from a registered medical practitioner stating they are Covid asymptomatic,” he said. “The passes would be issued only after the authorities at the destination approve the travel plan and send it back to us,” said Neelotpal. “The persons at the destinations would also be checked by the local health officials,” he said. Jt commissioner of police, Ravindra Kadam, said the policing would remain strict round-the-clock. “People would not be allowed to move without the police permission. There are variations in different localities but police actions are expected to be uniform,” he said. CP Upadhyay said the policing strategy would remain unchanged during the lockdown phase three. “But there would be variations like stricter vigilance in the containment areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zonal-dcps-to-issue-passes-for-stranded-people/articleshow/75512347.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||64% of migrants have less than Rs 100 left, says report||Mumbai: Even as the lockdown has been extended and migrants made to foot the bill for their travel home, a report by volunteer group Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan) reveals that 64% of migrants interviewed till April 26 had less than Rs 100 left with them. The report also says that 99% of the self-employed migrants they spoke to had no earnings during the lockdown period. The report titled “32 Days and Counting: Covid-19 Lockdown, Migrant Workers and the Inadequacy of Welfare Measures”, documents the distress faced by migrant workers during the lockdown period up to April 26. The report is not a survey but based on an analysis of distress calls from 1,531 groups of workers totalling 16,863 individuals during the lockdown period. Swan comprises over 100 volunteers including students, professionals, academics and researchers. The report covers migrants from several states across the country but mainly Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi. The report said that migrants were finding it difficult to access government ration. As many as 50% of those interviewed till April 26, had ration left for less than one day and 72% said their ration will finish in two days. Indeed, 82% said they had no access to government ration while 68% had no access to cooked food. The report also said that 46% of the groups that reached out to Swan were SOS calls from stranded workers with no food or money. The lack of wages for stranded workers was a major concern in the report. It revealed that only 6% of the workers they interacted with had received their full wages in the lockdown period and 78% had not been paid at all. More than 99% of the self-employed had no earnings during the lockdown, including street vendors and rickshaw pullers, it said. The report also said that many daily wagers had yet not been paid for the period they had worked and would have to stay back till their dues were cleared. The report also said that 41% of the workers they spoke to wanted to stay on after the lockdown lifted. This is because they were anxious about unpaid rent and loans and had no money to travel or survive even at home. The Swan report has made critical comments about the management of migrants in Maharashtra, saying, “access to government ration in Maharashtra has been consistently poor.” It also says the state’s response to providing relief has been toughest in Maharashtra, especially Mumbai. “Swan has repeatedly received distress calls from migrant workers stranded in Antop Hill and Nalasopara-Vasai areas as well as slums within Mumbai. Reaching out to the local administration in Mumbai has been futile, with no response from the BMC on helpline numbers,” the report says. “The BMC’s responses to our tweets were limited to asking for more information but initiating no action in terms of providing relief. The experience of other cities in Maharashtra has been no better,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/64-of-migrants-have-less-than-rs-100-left-says-report/articleshow/75512969.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Naveen dials Yeddy, Jagan on migrants||Bhubaneswar: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday reached out to B S Yediyurappa and Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, his counterparts in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, to discuss the safe return of stranded Odias from the two states. During separate video-conference meetings, Naveen sought cooperation of both the chief ministers as nearly two lakh Odias including migrant workers, students, professionals and pilgrims are stuck in the two states. “Those who want to come back to Odisha should be facilitated while those who wants to stay in Karnataka/Andhra Pradesh should do so,” Naveen said during the video-conference. Earlier, Naveen had made similar appeals to the chief ministers of Maharashtra and Gujarat. While complimenting both chief ministers of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh for effectively managing the situation, Naveen expressed gratitude for taking care of the Odias during the lockdown. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who attended the video-conference from New Delhi, requested both the chief ministers to ensure that those who want to return to Odisha register themselves with the state government’s portal first. It has been decided in the meeting that the chief secretaries of Odisha, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh would discuss the standard protocol for safe and dignified return of Odia people. On behalf of the state government, chief secretary Asit Tripathy requested that those returning to the state should be screened first. Tripathy said it is not advisable for people with influenza-like conditions to travel with others. Yediyurappa assured Naveen that his government would appoint a nodal officer for coordinating the return of Odias. Both Yediyurappa and Jaganmohan also lauded Naveen for managing to contain Covid-19 in Odisha. Jaganmohan showered praise on Naveen during the meeting. “You have been a source of inspiration for all of us. We youngsters take our inspiration from you,” said the Andhra Pradesh chief minister. As large number of stranded Odias are expected to return to the state by road and rail, the state government has made elaborate plan to receive them and ensure their mandatory quarantine for 14 days. The state government has identified 12 border check points for those travelling by road form different directions. “The returnees will be stamped with indelible ink on the inner forearm of their right hand with the date of entry. The authorities will also affix a transit pass on the windscreen of the vehicles specifying the destination and route and will be considered as permit,” Tripathy said. He directed various departments like police, transport and health to operate as a team at the border check points. The state has given options of 14 days of home quarantine or paid quarantine to those returning to urban areas and for certain categories of people like students, professionals, children, transgenders, physically challenged and pregnant and lactating mothers in rural areas. Others will be placed in state-funded quarantine centres at the gram panchayat level. Quarantine stickers will be affixed on the residence of returnees staying in home isolation and will be regularly monitored by the quarantine authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/naveen-dials-yeddy-jagan-on-migrants/articleshow/75510781.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||Gas victims’ screening begins, finally||BHOPAL: Following the string of death of gas victims due to Coronavirus in Bhopal, Bhopal administration in league with National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH), gas relief department and NGOs working among the survivors of gas tragedy undertook a health survey in the gas-affected areas to identify gas victims with co-morbidities, who may have symptoms of Coronavirus infection. TOI had done a series of stories asking for preventive steps on the part of administration and institutions like BMHRC and NIREH by reaching out to the section of gas victims, who are more vulnerable to Coronavirus due to co-morbidities. Among 16 Coronavirus deaths in Bhopal, 15 are gas victims. All of them barring one had a history of ailments like respiratory disorder, kidney dysfunction, cancer, hypertension and diabetes. Except for three of them, Coronavirus infection was confirmed among the patients after their death. The NGOs working among the gas victims had been insisting for a health survey in gas-affected areas to identify persons, who could contract Coronavirus infection easily because of co-morbidities. The decision to start a survey was taken following a meeting of health commissioner, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, with NGOs followed by a meeting of additional chief secretary, health, Mohd Suleman, officials of BMHRC, CMHO, gas relief and the district collector on Friday. Following the meetings, district collector, Tarun Pithode, on Friday issued an order constituting a four-member committee to “compile a list of gas victims, conduct a survey among them, identify the high-risk persons among them, collect their samples and take necessary step for their treatment.” Director, gas relief department, Ved Prakash will be the nodal officer of the committee. In a separate order, Pithode designated Rasool Ahmed Pulmonary Centre of gas relief department as the observation centre for COVID-19 suspects among the gas victims, who would be quarantined here till the report of their sample is received. A committee of six officials with SDM, Jameel Khan as the nodal officer has been constituted to ensure all necessary facilities like medicines, food, hygiene and the rest at the centre. KK Dubey, when asked about the survey, said “gas victims above 60 years who have co-morbidities would be covered under the survey. NIREH scientists and staff have the list and they also know where they live, so their support is being enlisted for the task. It is no secret that gas victims have problems with lung, kidney and other organs, which obviously render them an easy target for Coronavirus. We want to prevent infection to them. If anyone is found to have symptoms, he would be segregated. If there are more people in the family, they would be kept at the pulmonary centre and sent back if the report is negative and admitted in a designated hospital, if it is positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gas-victims-screening-begins-finally/articleshow/75512750.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Man electrocuted to death while hanging clothes on steel wire||Rudrapur: A 30-year-old man was electrocuted to death in Kichha town of district Udham Singh Nagar on Saturday while hanging wet clothes on a steel wire. The victim, identified as Pappu Mohammad, was taken to the community health centre by the neighbours but was pronounced “brought dead” by the doctors there. The deceased was a worker by profession. The victim received a jolt as soon as he touched the wire. He got stuck to the wire due to the current. Alerted by his screams, his wife rushed to his rescue and somehow managed to free him with a piece of log.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-electrocuted-to-death-while-hanging-clothes-on-steel-wire/articleshow/75511715.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 3, 2020||Allahabad||UP Board evaluation to start from May 5||PRAYAGRAJ: After postponing the evaluation by one and half months, UP Board announced that it would begin evaluating answer sheets of class X and XII students May 5 onwards. The evaluation process of answer sheets would last 20 days at various centres, while observing social distancing norms. “We will be starting with evaluation from May 5 and would follow all safety guidelines including social distancing,” said UP Board secretary Neena Srivastava. However, the decision was met with opposition by UP Board teachers. UP Madhyamik Sikshak Sangh’s general secretary Lal Mani Dwivedi said, “The decision to start evaluation of answer sheets from May 5 is impractical. The authorities have neglected the challenging situation arising in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and how unsafe it can be for teachers to step out of their homes right now.” “When the government initially postponed evaluation, there were just 112 novel coronavirus cases reported across the country and only 13 in the state. However, now there are around 2,300 novel coronavirus cases in the state. Today, 55 districts of the state are in either red or orange zone,” he added.  MC Chatopadhyay, manager of Colonelganj Intermediate College, said, “The government should have waited till the end of the present lockdown to end (May 17) and then taken the call, if other boards have not even completed their board exams, UP board is at least at ease on that part, it is only checking the answer sheets, that can be done after the end of lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-evaluation-to-start-from-may-5/articleshow/75511709.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Food, essentials, spraying disinfectant... Team Sai does it all||Hyderabad: Ever since the lockdown was announced, ‘Team Sai’ was at it. Not only it has distributed 1.4 lakh food packets and delivered essential items to 8,000 households, it also opened a call centre with five certified psychologists to attend to calls on depression by individuals during this period. On Saturday, 80 of its 500-member strong group donated blood too. “We plan to donate 500 units of blood in phases. We distributed food in Madhapur, Nanakramguda, Alwal and localities in Secunderabad Cantonment Board,” said PM Sai Prasad, the driving force behind Team Sai. According to Prasad, who is also an RTI activist, blood donations will continue in a phased manner as blood banks are running out of blood units. The team even procured a vehicle, one such used by Rapid Action Force (RAF), to spray disinfectants in some of the areas. Sodium hypochlorite solution was sprayed in several localities falling under GHMC Secunderabad zone and SCB, Prasad said. The group is now planning to spray the disinfectant in Ameerpet this week. The team also donated Rs 3.9 lakh to a gaushala at Gagan Pahad. The cow shelter which is home to 5,500 cows ran short of funds and cattle feed due lack of visitors, post lockdown. Meanwhile, Team Sai won applause for their work from deputy chief minister of Tripura Jishnu Dev Varma, who lauded them on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-essentials-spraying-disinfectant-team-sai-does-it-all/articleshow/75512808.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||State to advise schools against increasing fees for new session||Nagpur: The state education department is preparing a set of guidelines for schools in which it will advise them not to increase the fees for the upcoming session. The department may also ask schools to consider options for reducing fees, if possible, after consultation with the school management committee (SMC). These new guidelines are a result of Friday’s virtual meet between education minister Varsha Gaikwad, additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna along with other department officials. “Definitely the discussion (within department) is that schools should not increase fees. So yes, most probably we will be including this in our guidelines,” said Krishna. The department may go a step further and advise schools to reduce the fees. “We may request schools for reducing the fees as there are some expenses which are not being incurred. It could be related to transportation, consumables or utility etc. So if schools can at least bring down fees to that level, it will be good,” said Krishna. She reiterated that this is a decision which schools need to take as there can’t be a state level policy. “We can’t have a uniform guideline regarding this at this stage at least, because we don’t know to what extent their expenses have come down,” said Krishna. For schools, some good news is on the cards as they will be able to collect pending fees, which the government had asked them to refrain from till the lockdown is over. “Though this was not specifically discussed in the meeting, but the idea is that schools must stagger the pending fee collection for parents’ convenience and not ask for everything at once. We may issue guidelines on those lines and allow schools to recover fee in a staggered fashion,” said Krishna. She said the earlier March guideline was never about not collecting fees. “It was about not collecting fees ‘now’,” said Krishna. The board exam results will definitely be delayed due to logistical issues. “The main issue is that all answersheets are stuck in different locations and teachers are not able to pick them up for evaluation. Due to the lockdown, there are restrictions in movement. Once the lockdown is lifted in certain areas, teachers will get to work immediately while in other areas there may be some further delay,” said Krishan. No revised academic session yet The school education department has not yet taken a call on changing the date for start of the new academic session. “As of now, we have kept it as June 15, but that’s because no one can predict anything now. No one knows whether cases will go up or stabilize, whether parents will be willing to send their kids to school or not. Hence it is not possible to give a concrete date in black and white,” said additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna. In Vidarbha, the academic session starts from June 26 while in the rest of Maharashtra, it is June 15. “If all goes well then we are planning to open on June 15, just like every year,” said Krishna. Social distancing in schools The state government is mulling multiple options of maintaining social distancing in schools once they reopen. “These are things which are still being discussed. Like one person suggested that we can reduce the number of hours to some extent and then stagger it in two parts,” said Krishna. This way the school will run in two shifts thus reducing the crowd. “These ideas are still being discussed but we will ask schools to keep social distancing and keep hand sanitizers as well,” she said. The education department is clear that the final decision on how to implement social distancing must be left to school management committees and parents. “They all are now in WhatsApp groups where these things can be discussed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-to-advise-schools-against-increasing-fees-for-new-session/articleshow/75512358.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Those still stranded in Nashik shelter homes losing patience||Nashik: Ahmed Patel and Nirav Patel — two small traders from Gujarat — are frustrated as they see many migrant workers leave for Lucknow and Bhopal by special trains, though they are still stranded in Nashik. “When will we get to leave for our homes? We have been in the shelter camp for over a month now. We yearn to meet our families. The authorities must do something for us also,” the duo appealed. Ahmed hails from Surat while Nirav is from Ahmedabad. The duo had come to Thane for some work. But before they could return, the country-wide lockdown was announced. The two, along with some other migrant workers, were travelling by a truck when they were stopped by the Nashik police and put in shelter camps. Like the Patels, there are over 3,700 residents of other states — mostly migrant workers — who are still staying in shelter camps spread across five districts of the Nashik divisional commissionerate. While about 2,200 are in Ahmednagar, about 785 are in Nashik, 441 in Jalgaon, 209 in Dhule and 87 in Nandurbar. They hail from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and others states as well as Nepal. A significant number also hails from other districts in Maharashtra. “The expectations of these workers were raised when they heard that two batches of workers were allowed to travel,” said the government officials. Nashik divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane told TOI that arrangements would be made to send all workers to their native states in a planned manner. “We have to carry out medical checks of these migrants to ensure that they are fit to travel. We will then issue travel passes. Moreover, we will require NOCs from the respective district administrations of states from where the workers hail,” added Mane. Government officials said the mode of travel to send back the workers would depend on the numbers. “If the number is substantial, and if they hail from other states, we would arrange for a train. If the workers are from other parts of Maharashtra, we will arrange for buses or private vehicles,” added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/those-still-stranded-in-nashik-shelter-homes-losing-patience/articleshow/75511717.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records highest deaths in a day||Ahmedabad: The city on Saturday recorded 20 deaths of Covid-19 positive patients, highest in a single day. Earlier on April 28, the city had recorded 19 deaths. With the deaths in past 24 hours, Ahmedabad now reports 15% of India’s total mortality due to Covid-19 and is second only to Mumbai in terms of highest deaths in a district.It was also the second day in a row where the district recorded 250 or more cases. After the all-time high of 267 cases in a day, the district on Saturday recorded 250 – except five, all other cases were from within Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits.Analysis of the cases and deaths – 3,543 and 185 respectively – reveal that the doubling time for cases is eight days. But deaths are doubling faster at six days. On a positive note, out of 160 patients discharged after recovery from Covid-19 in Gujarat, 63 were from Ahmedabad.It took the state three days to reach from 4,000 cases to 5,000. Out of the 1,000 cases, 766 were from Ahmedabad alone.Out of the 20 deaths reported in past 24 hours, 11 were men and 9 were women. Out of the total, 12 were above 60 years of age whereas 5 were below 50 years of age. The youngest deceased person was 16 years old, whereas the oldest was 75 years old.Five of the deceased had both hypertension and diabetes, whereas three others had hypertension. Two had kidney disease and one each had heart and liver disease as co-morbidity. One of the deceased was HIV+, said state health department officials.Among three Gujarat districts having 90% of total positive cases, Vadodara has the highest 7.38% death rate followed by 5.22% of Ahmedabad. Surat is at third spot with 4.23% deaths of total positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-highest-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/75512759.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kanpur||Three more test positive for Covid-19, Kanpur tally now 223||KANPUR: A police constable and three-year-old daughter of an infected police constable, besides a traffic police constable, were tested positive for coronavirus in Kanpur in the last 24 hours since Friday, taking the total number of Covid -19 patients in the city to 223. Likewise, the total tally of infected policemen has reached 14. The three-year-old girl is city’s youngest Covid-19 patient. The infected policeman is posted at Bajaria police station of the city. “He has been tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and later admitted to Covid 19 hospital of the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The CMO added, “Besides, a traffic police constable and three-year-old daughter of an infected policeman of Raipurwa police station were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. They too have been admitted to Covid 19 hospital and their treatment has started.” Meanwhile, three corona suspects died at the Covid -19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital on Friday morning, informed chief medical superintendent LLR Hospital Dr RK Maurya. Their test reports are still awaited. Dr Maurya K further told TOI, “A 60-year-old woman, a resident of Govind Nagar, who was admitted to Covid-19 ICU on Thursday as coronavirus suspect, died on Friday morning. Her tests reports are awaited.” “A 75-year-old woman from Ranjitpurwa area of Chakeri admitted at Covid -19 ICU on Thursday with symptoms of breathlessness, cough and fever died on Friday morning. Her sample report is awaited,” said Dr Maurya. Meanwhile, a 37-year-old man, a resident of Barasirohi, who was also admitted to Covid-19 ward on Thursday, died during treatment on Friday morning,” he added. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old man, who had tested corona positive and was undergoing treatment at Sarsaul Community Health Centre in the district, and who had tried to end his life by consuming sanitizer on Thursday, died during treatment on Friday at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. He was a native of Jharkhand and was found afflicted with the virus following a test conducted on him by the health department team of Kanpur Dehat. “His condition deteriorated and he died on Friday. The last rites of the man took place adopting Covid -19 guidelines,” said Dr Maurya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-city-tally-now-223/articleshow/75512825.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Odisha CM hails Andhra government’s efforts in curbing coronavirus spread||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy spoke to his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik on Saturday to facilitate the return of migrant workers, students and others from AP who have got stuck in Odisha due to the lockdown. Patnaik, during the video conference, thanked Jagan for his government’s support to Odisha people stranded in AP and also appreciated the efforts put up by the state to check the spread of Covid-19. Both CMs spoke about shifting migrant workers from Andhra to Odisha and vice-versa. Jagan said out of 20,000 people from Odisha working in AP, 1,900 are in relief camps and want to go home. The AP government will ensure good facilities for those opting to stay back, Jagan told Patnaik. Union petroleum and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan also joined the video conference from Delhi and applauded the efforts of AP in taking care of migrant workers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/odisha-cm-hails-andhra-governments-efforts-in-curbing-coronavirus-spread/articleshow/75511724.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP whistleblower attacked for ‘showing plight of people’ in quarantine||BHOPAL: A whistleblower was allegedly attacked by panchayat employees in Sheopur after he took to social media to highlight the “plight of four youths” at a quarantine centre. The same panchayat employees were responsible for the well-being of the of the quarantine centre inmates. Police said that Bhupendra Goswami, Sobran Rawat, Jannet Rawat and Ummed Rawat had returned two days back from Pune and Benguluru and were quarantined in a village school by the local panchayat of Mewra village of Vijaypur tehsil of Sheopur. The four youths alleged that they were denied “food and even water” at the quarantine centre. There was no facility of even a fan in the scorching summer, they alleged. When Rishikesh Goswami, brother of one of the inmates at the quarantine centre, raised the issue on social media, he was beaten up. “I put up the plight of the four people at the quarantine centre to attract the attention of the district administration,” Rishikesh told the police in a written complaint. He alleged that panchayat secretary Bhanu Mewra and his associate Mahesh Mewra reached his house and attacked him for raising the issue. Satish Sahu, SHO of Vijaypur police station, said, “We have received a complaint. We are holding an investigation before filling an FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sheopur-whistleblower-attacked-for-showing-plight-of-people-in-quarantine/articleshow/75512758.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||More studies needed into long-term effect of Covid infection: AIIMS-Bhopal director||BHOPAL: Chronic conditions following a more acute case of COVID-19 will start coming to the fore only after June 2020, said AIIMS-Bhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh. In effect, the long-term damage caused by COVID-19 needs more investigation and study. Dr Singh’s remarks came in the backdrop of several patients complaining of brain fog and depression after having recovered. When asked if the virus is going to have long-term effects and causes chronic fatigue syndrome or other illnesses, he said, “Brain fog-like condition is similar to when you want to navigate your car through heavy fog on the road. In other words, when you cannot focus your thoughts and you feel lost and confused. This condition is not specific to COVID-19. This type of manifestation is seen in many clinical conditions due to any cause.” Most of the consequences can be defined as short-term and long-term sequalae. The long-term sequalae will start coming only after June 2020. Sequalae is a pathological condition resulting from a disease, said Dr Singh. For testing this, molecular tests are the standard for routine diagnosis. As for antibody-based tests, they have a longer window period to become positive. “This is also the reason that these antibody-based tests are being advised only for surveillance studies, as the antibodies will take 5-7 days to develop in the blood. If the antibody tests are done within the first 5-7 days, these will miss the infection and patient may have false sense of not being infected and can continue to spread infection. which can be disastrous. The window period of RT-PCR is only 2-3 days,” Dr Singh explained. “It is difficult to answer this question at this stage until we have another test to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the test, called accuracy of any test. These evaluation studies are done either by culturing the infectious agent (nCOV) or by sequencing or sequentially performing the test in clinically symptomatic cases. In the want of first two options on routine basis, the third option is being used. However, it is important that when the RT-PCR was developed, enough quality controls, including the confirmation through in-vitro viral culture and sequencing were done and only after that these kits are marketed,” he said. Nevertheless, validation/specificity of all these tests in many conditions like cancer, autoimmune disease, HIV, TB and cross positivity with other viral infections are yet to be published. Some experts point out that many people will have scarred lungs after having contracted the virus and that could have an impact on Indian cities with very high pollution. Main pathology of the COVID-19 disease is micro-embolism of the lung interstitium. This leads to microscars in the lungs. “If these scars are less in number, the patient may not have any manifestation as the healthy tissue can compensate the oxygen supply to other tissues. But if the scars are numerous and larger, the patient presents with clinical condition, in the form of breathlessness,” said Dr Singh. When asked about how long is the fever known to last in positive patients, Dr Singh said, “corona, and other viral diseases, the fever lasts only for a few days, but usually not more than 3 days, said Dr Singh. Brain fog-like condition is not specific to COVID-19. This type of manifestation is seen in many clinical conditions to any cause||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-studies-needed-into-long-term-effect-of-covid-infection/articleshow/75512756.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Death of 69-year-old man triggers panic in Devanagere||DAVANAGERE: The death of a 69-year-old Covid-19 patient in Davanagere on Friday – the district’s first fatality to the pandemic – has triggered panic among the residents. The man, suffering from a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), was admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital here on April 28 and tested positive for coronavirus the next day. Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi on Saturday said that the man had hypertension and was undergoing treatment for cardiovascular diseases at the Katurba Medical College Hospital at Manipal for the past five years. He said the deceased was a resident of Jalinagar in Davanagere, a locality that has now turned into an epicentre for the infection. Pointing out that Jalinagar was a thickly populated slum with extremely narrow lanes, Bilagi said that the district administration had collected throat swab samples from all the residents in the locality, which had been sealed as a pre-emptive measure. The district’s first Covid-19 victim had no history of travel and the authorities are yet to trace the source he contracted the infection from, said Davanagere superintendent of police Hanumantharaya. “One of his daughters-in-law had recently been to Gujarat, and had returned to Harihar on March 15, along with two of her relatives. We have sent their throat swab samples for testing, and are awaiting the results,” said Bilagi. Five of the six individuals who tested positive on Friday were primary contacts of the elderly man. “Of these, three were his daughters-in-law, one was a son, and the last a year-old grandchild, all of whom are responding well to treatment at the designated hospital,” the DC said. Teams formed to check purchase of drugs for cold, cough The district administration has constituted 35 teams to monitor purchase of medicines for cold, cough and fever – all of which are symptoms of Covid-19 – at the 15 pharmacies across the city. Members of these teams will check if the residents are purchasing these drugs without consulting doctors at the fever clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-in-panic-following-death-of-elderly-man/articleshow/75510791.cms||S A GANGARAJU
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Bumper crop yield pushes Telangana back to drawing board||HYDERABAD: The TRS government has spent Rs 1,024 crore to enhance storage capacity of warehouses in the state in the last six years. However, the anticipated bumper yield of paddy, Bengal gram, maize and other crops may throw its storage plans topsy-turvy. To plan for the future needs, the agriculture and marketing department plans to build 40 lakh metric tonne (MT) storage capacity at an estimated cost of Rs 2,500 crore as soon as it gets the necessary approvals. When Telangana was formed in 2014, the warehouse capacity, under the control of the state government, was only 4.17 lakh MT. Officials took up construction of 345 warehouses with nearly 20 lakh MT capacity on the directions of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who had then said that sowing area would increase tremendously once irrigation projects get completed. True to the planning, Kaleshwaram water has reached most parts of the state, resulting in farmers taking up sowing operations in over 50 lakh acres in ‘yasangi’ (rabi) season. However, the warehousing capacity plans fell short of demand as 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy and several lakh tonnes of other crops are cultivated. With the onset of the monsoon in mid-June, the agriculture department is expecting that farmers might take up sowing operations in 1.35 crore acres in ‘vaanakalam’(kharif) season. Though KCR has directed the officials to temporarily store paddy and other agricultural produce in government schools and function halls, these facilities would not be available for storage once lockdown is lifted. The agriculture and marketing department has prepared a detailed project report, estimating that Telangana requires at least 40 lakh MT of warehouse storage capacity, in addition to the existing 25 lakh MT capacity to store agriculture produce. The department has sent the report to the CM, stating the 40 LMT capacity godown construction is estimated to cost Rs 2,500 crore with a rider that these warehouses are needed as early as possible due tofarmer welfare sops. The required quantity of fertilisers and seeds too would also go up along with crop area, thereby requiring more storage space. Construction of new warehouses would commence soon as the chief minister has given the green signal for the project, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bumper-crop-yield-pushes-t-back-to-drawing-board/articleshow/75512362.cms||Roushan Ali
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||4 SRPF jawans in Jalna, 5 from Hingoli test +ve||Aurangabad: As many as five people, including four State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans, from Jalna tested positive for Covid-19 late on Friday night. All the five patients have been admitted to the Jalna district civiil hospital. Earlier, two other people who had tested positive for the contagion from the district have now tested negative. While one of them has been discharged, the other person is being treated for several medical conditions. According to district health officer Vivek Khatgaonkar, the four jawans from Jalna SRPF camp were posted for bandobast duty at Malegaon in Nashik district. After they returned to the camp, they were placed in institutional quarantine and the throat swab samples of the suspected cases were sent to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad. Four of the samples returned positive on Friday. Moreover, one person who had travelled from Mumbai was also quarantined and his throat swab sample tested positive for the infection. So far, 910 throat swabs have been collected for Covid-19 analysis from Jalna district, including 23 on Saturday. Officials from the district health department said that while 871 throat swabs have tested negative, eight of them have returned positive for Covid-19. The reports of 24 swab samples were awaited. Meanwhile, six new confirmed positive cases emerged from Hingoli district on Saturday. Of the six cases, five are SRPF men. On Friday, 25 jawans had tested positive for Covid-19. The total Covid-19 count in the district has now reached 53. “Altogether, 47 SRPF jawans (46 from Hingoli and one from Jalna) have tested positive for Covid-19. While 34 of them were posted on bandobast duty in Malegaon, 13 of them were in Mumbai,” said district civil surgeon Kishor Prasad Shrivas. One person tested positive for the contagion in Latur’s Udgir, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 17. Currently, seven people are under treatment at the sub-district hospital in Latur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-srpf-jawans-in-jalna-5-from-hingoli-test-ve/articleshow/75511730.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand planning to open Char Dham Yatra for residents of green districts of state||Dehradun: Uttarakhand government is planning to facilitate Char Dham Yatra for those residing in green zone areas of the state. While preparations for the same are underway, the official confirmation is still awaited. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the possibilities of starting the yatra were being studied. “This is an extensive campaign, where we need confirmation on sanitisation of hotels, stationing of health and security staff and maintaining social distancing,” he said, adding that resuming the yatra is important from the point of view of the religious tourism economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-planning-to-open-char-dham-yatra-for-residents-of-green-districts-of-state/articleshow/75511739.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Rural RTO couldn’t shift to new building as PWD delayed handover||Nagpur: The state’s public works department had not handed over the new multi-storeyed building to the rural Regional Transport Office, which was constructed last year, till March and the lockdown has now put brakes on the process. The rural RTO has been paying a monthly rent to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for using its godown. The RTO operations too have been suspended due to lockdown. Even the defect liability period of firefighting system installed in the new building will also end in next five months, said a source. “The slow pace of construction of the building also escalated the project cost. When sanctioned, the cost of the building was estimated at Rs5.13 crore. The delay in execution of the work escalated its cost. The PWD revised fund needed for the building at least three times. Now, it is ready and Rs17 crore has been spent,” said a source. In 2008, RTO Rural office was shifted to FCI godown on a monthly rent of Rs22,680 in April 2006. Till 2019, the transport department has paid over Rs1 core as rent to the FCI. The godown was converted into the current office which lacks infrastructure — right from proper counters to basic facilities like lavatories and drinking water facility. It has no covered area for applicants of driving licence and visitors. People visiting the office face a lot of problems. When it rains, they get drenched as there is no shed at any of the counters. Rural RTO office, which is also a regional head office in Vidarbha, not only caters to residents of 13 tehsil places of the district including Hingna, Saoner, Parseoni, Mouda, Ramtek, Umrer, Bhiwapur, Katol and Butibori, but also covers Gondia, Bhandara, Chandrapur, and Gadchiroli districts. Earlier, the deadline for completing the ground plus three-storey building was October 2015. It was completed almost seven months ago. Even the firefighting arrangements were installed almost six months ago. The one year defect liability period for its maintenance will end on in next five months, said sources, adding the PWD officials should be held responsible for this mess. The transport department has arranged mandatory documents like fire compliance and occupancy certificates. It managed to procure provisional firefighting certificate. It will apply for fire compliance and occupancy certificates from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services and town planning departments. PWD’s executive engineer J Bhanuse did not respond to TOI’s call and text message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rural-rto-couldnt-shift-to-new-building-as-pwd-delayed-handover/articleshow/75520002.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nashik||74 students return home from Kota in 2 batches||Nashik: Students, who reached Nashik from Rajasthan’s Kota on Friday, heaved a sigh of relief after meeting their parents. A total of 74 students from Nashik district returned to their homes after the central government permitted the movement of buses to bring them back. The first bunch of buses had brought 32 students in the afternoon while the remaining 42 reached after a few hours. The arrangement involved officials of the district administration, civic body, police authorities, healthcare officers and zilla parishad authorities. Chandwad telsildar Pradeep Patil told TOI, “We were instructed by the district administration to screen the students as we are at the entry point of the district after Malegaon. Since Malegaon is currently facing adverse conditions, we made the arrangements for screening of the students in our hospitals.” The students were primarily screened at the civil hospital of Chandwad taluka and were then allowed to board the buses that took them to Dwarka in Nashik city where they were handed over to their parents. The students were given water bottles and food packets at regular intervals during the travel. The bus also halted at Pachora in the morning. “Few students who reside near Chandwad were picked up by their parents from here while the rest headed to Dwarka. No student showed any symptoms of Covid-19 so we have asked all of them to remain home-quarantined for 14 days,” he added. According to him, the district administration will keep a tab on the students and make random checks to ensure that they do not develop any symptoms while in home quarantine. Vyankatesh Bhandarkar, a student who was preparing for IIT examinations, reached home around 4 pm. “We had started at 7.30 pm from Kota and my bus reached here (Dwarka, Nashik) at 3 pm. I live in Malegaon and my parents had come here to pick me up. I reached home within an hour and am feeling relieved now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/74-students-return-home-from-kota-in-2-batches/articleshow/75511744.cms||pragya jain
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Migrant workers board train amid tight security to return home||Nashik: The second Shramik Express chugged out of the Nashik Road railway station at 10.30 am, carrying 847 passengers including eight minors, for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. The train was flagged off by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil, Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare amid a thick security blanket. Buses started bringing in people from in various shelter camps, which had been set up for migrant workers during the countrywide lockdown. The district administration arranged for a 16-coach non-stop train to Lucknow for the people. The Bhusawal division of the Central Railway had sanitized the rakes. The Indian Railways charged every passenger Rs 420. The train is expected to reach Lucknow at 3.30 am on Sunday. With 54 seats in every coach, as per the social distancing norms, the travellers were provided with food packets and water bottles for their journey home. “The joy of going home to see my parents, wife and the newborn baby cannot be shared with anybody. It has been the longest pause in my life,” said 23-year-old Jiten Singh, one of the workers from Shravasti district of Uttar Pradesh. Jiten, who worked in Thane had boarded a truck from Vasai to travel to Uttar Pradesh. But his truck was stopped by the Satpur police on March 29 and since then, he had been at a shelter in Satpur along with 20 others. Jiten wanted to go home in March as his wife had delivered then. Maroof Khan, a 20-year-old from Bahraich district, said he now feels like a free bird. “The camp was a golden cage for us. We never experienced a life where we got breakfast and food without asking for it and attention was paid to our health as well. But returning home is real happiness,” Khan said. “I live alone in Thane. Since there was no work, I wanted to return to my village to do some farming. The stay at Nashik was the most leisurely time of my life,” said 53-year-old Sanjay Yadav, who hails from Kanpur. He is now ready to catch the first train to Thane so that he can carry return to work at a small garage where he has employed four others. As many as 341 workers from different parts of Madhya Pradesh, lodged in various camps across Nashik district, took the first special train that left Nashik Road railway station at 9.30 pm. Ranjana Makasare, a resident of the Khandwa, along with 16 others, was longing to go home. “We started from Thane catching with the vehicle driver promising to drop us till Dhule. We paid Rs 900 each, but the driver dropped us outside Nashik city,” Makasare said. The Nashik Road railway station was cordoned off completely to ensure that anyone not certified to travel was allowed to get into the coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrant-workers-board-train-amid-tight-security-to-return-home/articleshow/75511731.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||Man arrested for making liquor from sanitiser in Raisen||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a man who was allegedly making liquor by mixing water in sanitiser and selling it illegally in Raisen district. The accused, identified as Indal Singh Rajput, 32, a resident of Bankori village, was arrested from Boria Jagir village under Sultanganj police station. Police seized 4 litre of illegal countrymade liquor and 1 litre of sanitizer, which contained 72% alcohol, from the possession of the accused. “During patrolling, we received a tip-off that a man is transporting illegal liquor on his motorcycle. Based on the tip-off, we raided and arrested the accused,” Sultanganj police station in-charge, Maya Singh, told TOI. “We confiscated 4 litre of countrymade liquor made of ‘mohua’ from his possession along with 1 litre sanitizer, which had 72% alcohol content, from his possession. He had also mixed sanitizer in the countrymade liquor, which was seized from his possession,” she said. “When quizzed, he informed us that he used to mix 5 portions of water and 1 portion of sanitizer and sell it. He told us that he used to sell 1 quarter (175 ml) bottle of the liquor that he made from the sanitizer for Rs 200 each. The accused is a habitual bootlegger and has been arrested in the past too for illegal liquor sale,” she added. “Apart from the normal sections of the Excise Act, he has also been booked under Section 49 A (penalty for import etc. of liquor unfit for human consumption or for altering or attempting to alter denatured spirituous preparation),” she added. It is noteworthy that due to lockdown in the entire state, liquor shops have been shut down and several distilleries of the state have been granted permission for three months to manufacture sanitizers. Sanitizers with content of more than 60% alcohol are useful in containing Covid-19 infections. These sanitizers are being sold for Rs 90 for every 200 ml bottle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-arrested-for-making-liquor-from-sanitiser-in-raisen/articleshow/75512798.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man kills wife for refusing to breastfeed child||KANPUR: A man strangled his wife to death after she allegedly refused to breastfeed their child in Bithoor area of the district on late Friday night. The accused has been identified as Mahendra who is now in police custody and the victim is his wife Puja (21). According to police, the murder was fallout of a dispute wherein Puja had refused to breastfeed her four-month child on late Friday night. “Later, Mahendra had argued with his wife over issue. In a fit of rage, he thrashed Puja and later strangled her to death,” said CO Kalyanpur Ajay Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-kills-wife-for-refusing-to-breastfeed-child/articleshow/75512827.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||22 days on, 52-yr-old man on ventilator walks free||Vadodara: Twenty-two days back when he was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive patient he had very mild symptoms. But within days of getting hospitalized, he started experiencing complications. This 52-year-old Nagarwada resident had even lost his son who like him had tested positive and was being treated in the isolation ward of GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. On Saturday, Arvind Patni finished his battle against Covid-19 as he walked out of the hospital where he was kept on oxygen support and later ventilator. Patni had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). “The patient’s oxygen saturation was very low. Even with oxygen support, the patient’s condition had worsened. Later, he was kept on ventilator support. His inflammation related to ARDS was high which was brought down with the help of medication,” said Dr Chirag Rathod, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital. Although his condition improved, the inflammatory markers increased. “During all this period, he was under oxygenation. It was on 16th day that he was put off ventilator and after three days and repeat test coming negative, he was discharged,” said Rathod. For the team of doctors treating him, Patni’s case was challenging as he is physically handicapped and obese. “But it was a challenge for us. His son was the first unfortunate death at our hospital due to Covid-related complications,” said Rathod, who along with Dr Neeta Bose, Dr Keyur Brahmin, Dr Abhinav Bhosle, Dr Suketu Dave and Dr Ankita treated the patient. Apart from the 52-year-old patient, three other patients, including Ashok Patni, Nilofer Pathan and Maya Sharma - residents of Nagarwada and New Sama Road areas - and 25 others from ITI Covid Care Centre got discharged on Saturday. With 29 recoveries on Saturday, the total number of discharges in Vadodara reached 142.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/22-days-on-52-yr-old-man-on-ventilator-walks-free/articleshow/75511095.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||No easing of lockdown for Mumbai & Pune: What's open and what's shut||MUMBAI: Any hopes of some easing of curbs for Mumbaikars during the nationwide lockdown that has been extended by two weeks were dashed on Saturday after the state government issued revised guidelines to be applicable post-May 3, giving little leeway in the continuing Covid-19 crisis to the city’s residents as well as to those in other municipal corporations of MMR and the corporations of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon. With the lockdown extended till May 17, there are 14 districts in Maharashtra which are red zones, including Greater Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Nashik. 🚨Important Update🚨What's allowed and not allowed in Maharashtra during the extended period of Lockdown… https://t.co/oSqtPPz38d— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) 1588503439000Sixteen districts are orange zones, and six are in the safe green zone. Of the 14 red zone districts, five are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Malegaon, where restrictions have been tightened for the next two weeks. Nine other districts have been allowed some activities with restrictions. An order issued by state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Saturday said private offices will not be allowed to operate with 33% strength in these areas. Asked specifically about Mumbai, given its status as the country’s financial capital, a top government official told TOI, “Offices will not be permitted to open in Mumbai because it is a red zone.” The official, however, said that after a few days, the state could review this decision and consider opening offices, say with 10% attendance, if staff can travel in private vehicles. The norms laid down by the Centre on Friday set the framework for states while allowing them to increase restrictions, though no restrictions could be diluted. Liquor shops too cannot open in the red zones in Maharashtra. A senior bureaucrat told TOI that liquor shops in the municipal limits of MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon will remain closed. While there are a total of 4,200 liquor shops in the state, including country and IMFL stores, 1,400 of these are located in MMR, Pune, Pimpri- Chinchwad and Malegaon. Elsewhere in the state, district collectors and superintendents of the excise department have been empowered to take a decision depending on local conditions. The bureaucrat said comprehensive guidelines on liquor shops will be issued on Sunday or Monday. “We are still studying the situation. We will ensure that even if shops are opened in permitted areas, social distancing is maintained,” he said. According to the state guidelines, individuals and vehicles can move only for permitted activities. Four-wheeler vehicles will have a maximum of two passengers besides the vehicle driver, while a pillion-rider will not be allowed on two-wheelers. While the Centre had allowed domestic help, the new directive issued by the state on Saturday did not mention it. The restriction on movement would apply to domestic help unless the employer or employee are able to obtain permission for movement from the collector or police. In Mumbai, the issue of whether to allow maids to enter apartments has become a serious topic of discussion in many housing societies, especially after the Centre relaxed the rule on Friday. State government sources said maids are not considered part of essential services. “Even if they travel from a non-containment zone to a housing society in a non-containment area in Mumbai, it will not be allowed,” the sources said. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes, both essential and non-essential, are permitted to remain open in urban areas, but not in municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad corporations. “In case there are more than five shops in the lane or road, then only shops selling essential commodities shall remain open,” the state notification said. In a relief to many builders, the state has allowed construction to commence at sites only where labourers are already available. No worker can be brought in from outside. In MMR alone, there are 1,200 such construction sites with 70,000 labourers, according to the builder’s association, MCHI-CREDAI. All pre-monsoon work too has been permitted. E-commerce activity will be permitted only in respect of essential goods, medicine and medical equipment. All industrial work is allowed in rural areas of red zones (in MMR there are rural areas in parts of Vasai-Virar, Palghar, Bhiwandi and Raigad). All government offices will function with 100% attendance but again not in the urban areas of the MMR, Pune, Malegaon and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. Following the Centre’s directives, the state has issued new guidelines saying that the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7pm to 7am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-stays-firm-no-easing-of-lockdown-for-mumbai-pune/articleshow/75512977.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 3, 2020||Pune||No easing of lockdown for Mumbai & Pune: What's open and what's shut||MUMBAI: Any hopes of some easing of curbs for Mumbaikars during the nationwide lockdown that has been extended by two weeks were dashed on Saturday after the state government issued revised guidelines to be applicable post-May 3, giving little leeway in the continuing Covid-19 crisis to the city’s residents as well as to those in other municipal corporations of MMR and the corporations of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon. With the lockdown extended till May 17, there are 14 districts in Maharashtra which are red zones, including Greater Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Nashik. 🚨Important Update🚨What's allowed and not allowed in Maharashtra during the extended period of Lockdown… https://t.co/oSqtPPz38d— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) 1588503439000Sixteen districts are orange zones, and six are in the safe green zone. Of the 14 red zone districts, five are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Malegaon, where restrictions have been tightened for the next two weeks. Nine other districts have been allowed some activities with restrictions. An order issued by state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Saturday said private offices will not be allowed to operate with 33% strength in these areas. Asked specifically about Mumbai, given its status as the country’s financial capital, a top government official told TOI, “Offices will not be permitted to open in Mumbai because it is a red zone.” The official, however, said that after a few days, the state could review this decision and consider opening offices, say with 10% attendance, if staff can travel in private vehicles. The norms laid down by the Centre on Friday set the framework for states while allowing them to increase restrictions, though no restrictions could be diluted. Liquor shops too cannot open in the red zones in Maharashtra. A senior bureaucrat told TOI that liquor shops in the municipal limits of MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon will remain closed. While there are a total of 4,200 liquor shops in the state, including country and IMFL stores, 1,400 of these are located in MMR, Pune, Pimpri- Chinchwad and Malegaon. Elsewhere in the state, district collectors and superintendents of the excise department have been empowered to take a decision depending on local conditions. The bureaucrat said comprehensive guidelines on liquor shops will be issued on Sunday or Monday. “We are still studying the situation. We will ensure that even if shops are opened in permitted areas, social distancing is maintained,” he said. According to the state guidelines, individuals and vehicles can move only for permitted activities. Four-wheeler vehicles will have a maximum of two passengers besides the vehicle driver, while a pillion-rider will not be allowed on two-wheelers. While the Centre had allowed domestic help, the new directive issued by the state on Saturday did not mention it. The restriction on movement would apply to domestic help unless the employer or employee are able to obtain permission for movement from the collector or police. In Mumbai, the issue of whether to allow maids to enter apartments has become a serious topic of discussion in many housing societies, especially after the Centre relaxed the rule on Friday. State government sources said maids are not considered part of essential services. “Even if they travel from a non-containment zone to a housing society in a non-containment area in Mumbai, it will not be allowed,” the sources said. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes, both essential and non-essential, are permitted to remain open in urban areas, but not in municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad corporations. “In case there are more than five shops in the lane or road, then only shops selling essential commodities shall remain open,” the state notification said. In a relief to many builders, the state has allowed construction to commence at sites only where labourers are already available. No worker can be brought in from outside. In MMR alone, there are 1,200 such construction sites with 70,000 labourers, according to the builder’s association, MCHI-CREDAI. All pre-monsoon work too has been permitted. E-commerce activity will be permitted only in respect of essential goods, medicine and medical equipment. All industrial work is allowed in rural areas of red zones (in MMR there are rural areas in parts of Vasai-Virar, Palghar, Bhiwandi and Raigad). All government offices will function with 100% attendance but again not in the urban areas of the MMR, Pune, Malegaon and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. Following the Centre’s directives, the state has issued new guidelines saying that the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7pm to 7am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-stays-firm-no-easing-of-lockdown-for-mumbai-pune/articleshow/75515916.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Efforts under way to bring back and send workers from Kodagu||MADIKERI: The Kodagu district administration is taking efforts to bring back its residents stranded across the country back home. The officials are also making efforts to facilitate the return of nearly 1,900 migrant workers in Kodagu to their respective towns and villages. In accordance with established protocol, all migrant will be registered online, and they will be subjected to a medical examination. In the case of inter-district movement, contractors who have employed the labourers will have to bear the charges of transporting the workers, the release by the Kodagu district administration said. As many as 900 people are in the first batch keen on returning to their homes. The contractor in Kodagu will have to shell out Rs 54,000 for the transport of these labourers from Madikeri to Koppal district by bus. Although a single bus can accommodate 55 passengers, only 20 will be allowed to travel in the vehicle, as a consequence of which the contractor will have to cough up considerably more. If the contractor is unwilling to bear the expense, the migrant worker seeking to go home will have to pay the fare. Senior officer in the labour department Mudiyappa M Yatnatti and Madikeri taluk tahsildar Mahesh said that the number of labourers in the hilly district who were native of other states were higher in number than those from other parts of the state. So far, as many as 22 labourers stranded in Kodagu have been sent back home to Ballari district, said Kodagu district assistant commissioner Javaregowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/efforts-under-way-to-bring-back-and-send-workers-from-kodagu/articleshow/75510836.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Auto drivers threaten stir for Rs 1,000 cash assistance||Trichy: Around 40 per cent of autorickshaw drivers, who have registered with their welfare board, said they are yet to receive the special Covid-19 assistance of Rs 1,000 announced by the state government till date. Despite repeated representations made by the functionaries of their union, they were unable to receive a proper reply from the officials, the autorickshaw drivers said. The number of auto drivers registered under the auto driver’s welfare board is 40,000. Of them, around 25,000 members have proper ID cards. However, welfare board officials declared that only 20,000 members are eligible to get the cash assistance. But, monetary assistance has not been disbursed to even 50 per cent of the members, said, M Sivaji, state general secretary of Tamil Nadu Federation of Auto Driver’s Union. “Around 50 to 60 per cent of auto drivers have received Rs 1,000 announced by the government in the first phase. However, not even a 20 per cent of the drivers have not received the assistance announced for the second term,” he said. Around 1,500 eligible drivers are in Tiruvarur district, of which 10 per cent have yet to receive the money. “We approached the labour department officials, they have not given us a proper reply,” said MKN Aniba, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Federation of auto driver's union – CITU. Despite repeated enquiries, they were unable to get a proper reply from the officials of the labour department, he said. Tiruvarur district labour officer Sridhar, (in-charge of Nagapattinam) told TOI that they have disbursed the assistance to 730 out of the 1,507 members. The remaining would be completed within a few days. However, Trichy district president of auto drivers’ union A Farooq said that officials are lying. “Every day I am enquiring with auto driver. But hardly one or two are saying that they were credited the money. Others say they have not received anything. The federation has decided to stage a statewide agitation on May 8. "Facing threat to our livelihood after the complete lockdown and for the third term now, we need some financial package from the government. A large number of drivers and our families are in a precarious situation. So, the government should provide Rs 15,000 each family or they should allow us to operate autos. To stress our demand, we have decided to stage a protest on May 8 across the state by adhering community distance properly," Sivaji stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/auto-drivers-threaten-stir-for-rs-1000-cash-assistance/articleshow/75512799.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Balangir to intensify screening of returnees||Bhubaneswar: After two positive cases in Balangir district were traced to Tamil Nadu, the migrants working in the textile, construction and hospitality sectors there will come under intensive screening once they return. “From Tamil Nadu and Telangana, we expect around 50,000 migrants to return to the district. We have made adequate arrangements to receive them at the railway stations and at different drop points if they come by bus. Soon after their arrival, they will be screened. The ones, arriving from Tamil Nadu will undergo thermal screening. They will also be asked a few questions about their period of stay, where they had worked and how they had maintained personal hygiene. This will help us segregate the migrants so that they can be kept in different government quarantine facilities,” said a district level officer. Sources said the migrants have completed registration process, which the Odisha government has made mandatory for them to return. In Telangana, the migrants mostly work in brick kilns, in Tamil Nadu the labourers mostly work in textile factories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/balangir-to-intensify-screening-of-returnees/articleshow/75510826.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SI, 9-month pregnant, on lockdown duty||Sambalpur: While people are preferring at stay home to keep themselves safe, a nine-month pregnant sub-inspector is doing her duty. Director general of police (DGP) Abhaya, who visited Sambalpur on April 30, lauded sub-inspector Teresa Xess for her dedication in his twitter handle. Teresa is posted at the Town police station in Sambalur city. Though senior officers asked her to stay home on leave, she denied. “I saw everybody doing their bit for humanity during this period of crisis. Hence, I decided not to take leave. I am absolutely fine and I am able to do my work properly. Moreover, it is also giving me satisfaction that I am a part of the combat against the invisible enemy,” she said. Considering Teresa’s willingness to perform duty and her health condition, the district police have not assigned her any outdoor duty. “The other police personnel are going outside to enforce lockdown and perform other duties nowadays, and at this time, I am doing my duty at the police station,” said Teresa. Teresa said, “I am happy as the DGP spoke to me when he came to Sambalpur. He spoke to me like the head of the family. It was encouraging and morale booster for me. The DGP inquired about my health condition,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/si-9-month-pregnant-on-lockdown-duty/articleshow/75510837.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 3, 2020||Nashik||7 new Covid-19 +ve cases, including 1 in Deolali cantt||Nashik: Seven new confirmed Covid-19 cases have emerged, including six from Nashik city and one from the Deolali Cantonment Board area. The cantonment patient is an official of the military supply department. With the six new patients, the city’s overall Covid-19 tally has touched 16. Till date, three patients have recovered. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed four more containment zones, including three in the Cidco division of the city — Savta Nagar, Uttam Nagar and Pathardi Phata — and one in Satpur colony. The city now has 10 containment areas. Moreover, an area on the Kumar Mangalam Road, where an Army official resides, has been sealed. Contact-tracing has been initiated. A Deolali Cantonment Board official said the official was in charge of the supply department and often went outside for purchases. NMC officials said they have sanitized the areas in four new containment zones and the health team are conducting door-to-door surveys. “We have found 46 high-risk contacts from these four new containment zones, including 20 in Satpur, 14 in Uttam Nagar, eight in Savta Nagar and four high-risk contacts in the Pathardi phata area. They have been isolated in NMC hospitals,” the officials said A pharmacist, who is a resident of the Pathardi phata area, has tested positive. His wife works in the TB department. Seven high-risk contacts, including four family members, have been isolated in the NMC hospital. A woman who tested positive is a resident of the Satpur area. She has a travel history to Malegaon. She had gone to Chinchangaon near Malegaon on April 7 to take part in a funeral. The woman had travelled with seven other people and returned to Nashik on April 28. She has been isolated in the Zakir Hussain Hospital. A patient from Savta Nagar area also had a travel history to Jalgaon. He had come to Nashik city on April 28 by a milk tanker. A journalist from the Uttam Nagar area too has tested positive. He has been isolated in the Nashik district civil hospital. A staffer of the Nashik rural police, who is a resident of Hirawadi in Panchavati area, had been posted to Malegaon. He had given his swab for testing on April 26 and had come to Nashik by truck on April 28. He has been shifted to the Nashik civil hospital. As he has not been to his residence in Hirawadi Panchavati in the past fortnight, the NMC did not seal the area. Finally, the sixth patient tested positive is a physician in the Nashik civil hospital. He had been staying in the quarters in the civil hospital campus. He also resided at the hostel in Tidke colony area of the city, but he had not gone there for in the past few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-new-covid-19-ve-cases-including-1-in-deolali-cantt/articleshow/75511755.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 3, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Migrant workers squat on road, create ruckus||KANPUR: A large number of migrant workers set off to reach their hometowns in north east districts of UP and Bihar from their workplace in Maharashtra and Gujarat, staged a road blockade and created ruckus at Kalpi Bridge in Jalaun district after they were not allowed to proceed further on late Friday night. Police later pacified them and sent them to quarantine centres. Sources said, most of these migrant workers hail from north east districts of UP and Bihar were working as daily wage workers in factories in cities of Maharashtra and Gujarat. Reportedly travelling in trucks and loaders, they reached Kalpi Bridge on late Friday night hours but were stopped by the police near the bridge checkpost of Jalaun. When police tried to take them to the quarantine centres, they refused to go and squatted on the road and staged a road blockade. Subsequently, heavy police force was deployed at the site to ward of any untoward incident. ADM (city) Pramil Kumar and SP Satish Kumar rushed to the spot and tried to convince them saying that they would seek permission from the adjoining Kanpur Dehat administration to open the district borders and allow them to head further. When the talks of opening the borders failed, the migrant workers created ruckus and staged a road blockade, the sources further said.. A migrant worker said, “As most of us do not have any money for food we want to go back to our native places”. According to SP Jalaun Satish Kumar, nearly 500 migrant workers, travelling in trucks and loaders from Maharashtra and Gujarat, reached Kalpi bridge in Jalaun via Jhansi on late Friday night. Soon, their number snowballed into thousands. The SP further said that after much persuasion, they could be convinced and later quarantined at various quarantine centres with the assurance that food would be provided to them. “They were later shifted to quarantine centres of Jalaun, Madhavgarh, Kadaura and Kalpi,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-workers-squat-on-road-create-ruckus/articleshow/75512837.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 3, 2020||Nashik||Water cut in Panchavati on Tuesday||Nashik: The water supply department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that there will be no water supply in the Panchavati division on May 5 owing to the repair works. The supply will be restored with low pressure on Wednesday. Officials of the water department said that water supply will be restored to normalcy from Thursday. According to NMC, the works include repairing of valves in pipelines. “The work related to cross connection of the main pipeline of elevated water tank having capacity of 17.5 lakh million litres located in the premises of the water treatment plant in Panchavati is being undertaken on Tuesday. Hence, we will not be supplying water to some parts of the division on Tuesday,” said NMC officials. Areas such as the Meri area, Tarwala Nagar, Swastik Nagar, Lokhande farm, Hirawadi-Dindori road area, Phule Nagar, Panchavati police station area, Sriram Nagar and the Nimani area in ward no 4 will not receive water. “In addition, some parts of ward no 5 in Panchavati, the Karanjua area, Dindori Naka, Panchavati gaothan area, Malviya Chowk, Shani Chowk and Ramkund area too will also not recieve water on Tuesday due to the repair work,” said an NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-cut-in-panchavati-on-tuesday/articleshow/75511764.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||114 students from Kota reach Rourkela after 50-hr bus ride||Rourkela/Jharsuguda: Altogether 114 students from Kota arrived here on Saturday morning after travelling for 50 hours. While 87 were allowed home quarantine, 27 were sent to government quarantine centres after health check up and sanitisation of their luggage. “Since the lockdown, we parents have been moving the district administration and lawmakers for permission to get our children back home,” said Anil Kumar Singh, father of a student, adding that each student had to pay Rs 4,000 for the journey. The children were also panicky as cases were fast rising in Kota and they had been asked to vacate the hostel. Besides students from Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Assam had already left, said Sunita Pradhan, a student. “We are very happy on their return that could happen after much deliberation,” said Sharada Nayak, MLA Rourkela. Similarly, two buses carrying 66 students from Kota will reach Jharsuguda after midnight or early Sunday morning. “Many hostel owners had asked the children to leave but as our hostel was owned by an Odia, we somehow managed to stay one,” said Luci Sahoo, a student over phone. The journey was not without hiccups. One of the buses developed technical snag in the Jhalawar highway delaying the journey by four hours. The district administration had to arrange a new bus for them. Collector (Jharsuguda) Saroj Samal said a 100-bed quarantine facility has been set up in Belpahar. “Parents may stay in the quarantine facility with their children in case the landlords do not allow them or they have limited living space. If they take their wards home, then they will have to follow 14-day quarantine at home,” Samal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/114-students-from-kota-reach-rourkela-after-50-hr-bus-ride/articleshow/75510849.cms||Mihir Ray
May 3, 2020||Kanpur||‘Make list of pregnant women whose deliveries are expected by May 16’||KANPUR: Health officials, involved in Covid-19 , have been directed on Saturday to prepare a list of pregnant women residing in the hotspot whose deliveries are expected by May 16 or between May 16 and May 31 . Issuing the orders, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde has directed the health officials to prepare such lists twice and without delay as the tests of pregnant women for Covid-19 would be done before the delivery time. Bobde said the corona positive women would be admitted in separate places and treated as per the guidelines. He has asked principal, GSVM medical college Dr Aarti Lalchandani, additional health director Dr R P Singh and CMO Dr AK Shukla to appoint an officer/doctor as a nodal officer of GSVM medical college microbiology lab for sampling. The nodal officer would inform the CMO and the additional director about any problem in sampling. The CMO would be responsible for uploading the information on upcovid portal, the commissioner said and added that the principal of GSVM medical college would feed all data on lab portal. “There should be similarity in both the data. In positive pregnant women cases, tracing and tracking will take place after receiving information from police and the health department. On the basis of these reports, the district magistrate will chalk out a strategy in consultation with the DIG, CMO and the municipal commissioner”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/make-list-of-pregnant-women-whose-deliveries-are-expected-by-may-16/articleshow/75512844.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Fearing corona, Maoists urging villagers to stop migrants’ entry into Gadchiroli||Nagpur: The Maoists are learnt to have instructed the Gadchiroli villagers not to allow any strangers, like migrant labourers sneaking into the district from Telangana, to take shelter in the village to stop the pandemic spread in their hamlet. Gadchiroli, still maintaining the green zone status with zero cases, has now been under threat from migrant labourers sneaking into the district from hotspot Telangana through forested stretch and crossing rivers. The Reds have also asked the villagers not to deal with such strangers in any manner, including helping them with food or water. Sources in the Gadchiroli district said the senior Maoist leaders, like Tarakka, have addressed few meetings at Bhamragarh-Abhujmadh border where they explained the villagers about the threat of contracting Coronavirus. According to a source from the security agency, the Maoists are now feeling the heat of the virus as anyone contracting it may lead to wiping out of the entire dalam if not a formation even larger than it. “The Maoists are depended on the villagers for logistics support, ration, shelter and other supplies. If anyone in the village contracts the disease, it will take no time to spread even to the Maoists,” he said. “The Maoists have become insecure with the behaviour of the villagers. Many local population are also returning to the villages from Nagpur, Pune and other hotspots which is also leaving them jittery,” he said. SP Shailesh Balkawade said there is no concrete information or documents of the Maoists’ meeting which may authenticate the fact that they are asking villagers not to allow outsiders. “The villagers of Gadchiroli have themselves been showing an unexpected level of awareness to deal with the outsiders. They have prohibited entries of any strangers into their villages,” he said. Balkawade further said the villagers are quarantining the visitors, students or others returning from other places and their own neighbours with travel history in schools or even in the fields and outside the villages. “I found during my visit to Bhamragarh that people outside shops are maintaining social distancing. Even in the villagers, the local residents are following social distancing norms on their own,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fearing-corona-maoists-urging-villagers-to-stop-migrants-entry-into-gadchiroli/articleshow/75519957.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt permits distilleries and breweries to operate||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has begun taking steps to reopen alcohol shops even as it is yet to declare the date for it. Meanwhile on Saturday, the government accorded permission to distilleries and breweries to start functioning with immediate effect. The guidelines come in the wake of relaxations declared by the Union home ministry. With the permission from the state government as many as 20 distilleries and breweries that manufacture Indian Made Liquor (IML), Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer will become operational across the state. The excise department in its directions to the distilleries said those situated in rural areas and outside the limits of municipalities and municipal corporations can start their operations by duly following the guideline issued by the Union home ministry and state government. The managing director of Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited D Vasudeva Reddy issued detailed working guidelines to be followed by the breweries and distilleries. He said all common areas like entrance gates, cafeteria, meeting rooms, conference halls, equipment, lifts and washrooms within the manufacturing units should be disinfected. Special transportation should be provided for workers coming from outside and transport vehicles should be operated with 30% to 40% of their occupancy capacity. All vehicles and machinery should be disinfected. Mandatory thermal scanning should be done while employees enter and exit the premises. Medical insurance should be provided to all workers. Provision for handwash and sanitiser, preferably with touch-free mechanism, should be made available at all entry and exit points and all common areas. Workplaces should have a gap of one hour between shifts and stagger lunch breaks to ensure social distancing. Usage of tobacco and gutka and spitting should be strictly prohibited within the premises of manufacturing units. There should be a total ban on non-essential persons visiting the distilleries or breweries. Hospitals and clinics in the nearby areas that are authorised to treat Covid-19 patients should be identified and a list of hospitals should be available at the workplace at all times. The state government is likely to take a call on opening of wine shops on Sunday. Sources said that detailed guidelines on opening of wine shops will vary according to red, orange and green zone areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-permits-distilleries-and-breweries-to-operate/articleshow/75511770.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||11 UoH alumni appointed district epidemiologists||Hyderabad: Eleven alumni of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have been appointed as district epidemiologists. While 10 of them are placed in various districts of Telangana— Ranga Reddy, Medchal, Kothagudem, Sircilla, Vikarabad, among others, one is employed at Baksa district of Assam. Apart from the alumni, who have completed their Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from from the School of Medical Sciences, UoH, four students of the outgoing batch (2018-20) are actively involved with the Telangana government through the WHO-Integrated District Surveillance Project (IDSP). They are providing technical and desk-based support for contact tracing, line listing, spot mapping, active and passive surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), including Covid-19 and Influenza-like illnesses (ILL). “These students stand a good chance for placements, once the provisional completion certificate is secured,” said BR Shaman, associate professor, School of Medical Sciences. Another 15 students of 2019 batch, who are in the second semester MPH, are already into the surveillance activities across various locations in the state for the past one month. They are getting field-based hands-on immersion experience, which is key to public health. Doctoral scholars of the public health stream have also been assisting various entities, both actively and passively. This is in addition to their doctoral research work. The faculty of the public health stream is also working towards capacity building all over the world through webinars and social media interactions. A recent webinar on epidemiology attracted 228 participants. The School of Medical Sciences at UoH has been running the MPH program from 2013. Apart from MPH students, 15 technical research students from the School of Life Sciences, UoH have been identified to do data entry, sample sorting, and coordination with other testing labs. Of these students, eight of them were trained by the scientists on the testing for COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-uoh-alumni-appointed-district-epidemiologists/articleshow/75512366.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Total lockdown in 3 districts today||Trichy: Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Ariyalur collectors have announced total lockdown in their districts on Sunday to check Covid-19 effectively. Except for hospitals and pharmacies, no establishments will be allowed to function. Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao said those who come out of their houses except for emergencies will face severe legal action. “People of Thanjavur had already been issued three types of passes in three different colours to come out of their houses. They can use the cards only for two days each from Monday to Saturday. So, Sunday would be a total lockdown”, he added. In case of emergencies, the general public can contact 93453 36838 (WhatsApp) and control room 04362-271695 and 1077. Tiruvarur collector T Anand said hospitals, pharmacies and Amma canteens will function on Sunday. If anyone is found violating the rule he or she would be punished, he stated in a statement. Ariyalur has been observing Sunday lockdown for the last four weeks which will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/total-lockdown-in-3-districts-today/articleshow/75512813.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Govt not procuring paddy||Hyderabad: Congress on Saturday said many farmers are waiting for the government to procure their paddy. The wait is only getting longer, forcing the farmers to sleep near their paddy produce. “Farmers have brought their harvested paddy to the procurement centres set up by the government. Due to shortage of trucks, hamalis and gunny bags, the procurement is not being done in tune with the arrivals. As a result, farmers are sleeping near their paddy stocks for a few weeks,” AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao, who visited Muthireddygudem and a couple of other villages in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, said on Saturday. Congress leaders V Hanumantha Rao, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Md Ali Shabbir, who visited several villages, said paddy was not being procured as being claimed by the government. Shabbir Ali demanded the state government pay compensation to the farmers who lost their crops and also to those whose houses were damaged due to the unseasonal rains in Kamareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-govt-not-procuring-paddy/articleshow/75512373.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to prepare database of migrants wanting to go back||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Sunday tasked additional district magistrates to compile a database of migrants and other people desirous of going back to their native places over the next few days with the help of additional commissioners of police. Guidelines were also issued for the nodal officers who would be coordinating with the resident commissioners and officials of other states for both inward and outward movement of stranded people. Last week, the Centre had allowed the movement of migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims to back to their hometowns. It had asked the states to prepare guidelines and appoint nodal officers to oversee the entire exercise. With a large number of migrant workers stuck in various states, it would be one of the biggest planned interstate movement of people. The AAP government on Friday had appointed principal secretary (social welfare) PK Gupta as the nodal officer for the entire exercise. Delhi Police special commissioner Muktesh Chander was tasked to provide logistical and security support. The government had also named 10 senior IAS officers for coordinating with different states for the movement of stranded people. While compiling of the database of migrants in the city is likely to begin in a couple of days, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and district magistrates had already started collecting information of close of 16,000 people living in about 500-odd night shelters and schools in the last week of March. According to the standard operating procedure issued on Sunday, only asymptomatic people would be allowed to go back to their native places after being “encouraged” to download the Aarogya Setu mobile app. Those coming to Delhi would be asked to go into home quarantine and undergo periodic health check-up. Delhi Transport Corporation and Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation would provide buses up to interstate bus terminals or predecided points near borders from where the respective states would take them in their own vehicles. The buses would have to be properly sanitised and social distancing would have to be maintained between passengers. “Transit passes will be issued to those having their own vehicles by the respective district officials,” said an official. The movement of stranded people would also be allowed by trains, for which railways ministry would separately issue detailed guidelines, including how and where to get the tickets and rules to be followed at the railway stations and inside the coach. To pick Delhiites stuck in other states, buses would be sent by the transport department, DTC and DTTDC. At the disembarkment points in Delhi, screening of passengers would be carried out by the health department before sending them into quarantine. “Police will make security arrangements at boarding and disembarkment points and keep a strict vigil in areas where the migrant population lives,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-to-prepare-database-of-migrants-wanting-to-go-back/articleshow/75524327.cms||Atul Mathur
May 3, 2020||Nashik||4-year-old killed in leopard attack||Nashik: A four-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Donwade village on Friday evening. The incident took place when Rudra Shirole, son of farmer Rajesh Shirole, was playing in front of their farmhouse in the Donwade village near the Bhagur area, about 20 km from Nashik city. This is the second leopard-attack fatality in the past couple of weeks. On April 19, a 12-year-old boy was killed on the spot after a leopard pounced on him near a sugar cane farm in the Hinganvedhe village of Nashik taluka. Forest department officials said the boy was playing outside in the evening when the leopard suddenly attacked him and dragged into the farm. Rudra died on the spot. The rushed to the spot and started shouting. The leopard then ran away. Rudra’s body was taken to the civic hospital and the post-mortem was conducted on Friday night. His body was cremated thereafter. Forest officials said the department has erected three cages in the areas to trap the leopard. Leopard trapped in Sinnar Meanwhile, a leopard was trapped in the cage on Saturday morning at Shivade village near Sinnar. The cage had been erected there around a week ago after the villagers had complained of the presence of the leopard. The health check-up of the animal is being done and the leopard will be released after the necessary procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-year-old-killed-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/75511775.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||1,500 migrant workers brought to Bareilly from Uttarakhand||Bareilly: Nearly 1,500 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, who have been stuck in various parts of Uttarakhand amid the lockdown, were brought to Bahedi area of Bareilly district in buses on Saturday. After screening, the labourers will be sent to their homes in various UP districts where they will be quarantined by the district administration. Out of the 1,500 migrants, nearly 230 belonged to Pilibhit and Rampur districts and they were sent to their homes on Saturday, while the remaining would be sent to their native places on Sunday. The migrant workers, who were struck in various Uttarakhand districts such as Haridwar, Dehradun, Nainital and Almora, among others, have been requesting the UP government to rescue them. However, after the decision to extend the lockdown till May 17 was announced, the UP government decided to bring them back and sought the support of the Uttarakhand government. Following which, Uttarakhand roadways buses dropped them on the Bahedi border. Additional SP (crime) and nodal officer Ramesh Kumar Bhartiya told TOI, “We are ensuring that proper food and necessary articles are made available to the migrant workers until they are sent to their respective districts. Their screening is being done and if anyone shows any symptoms of Covid-19, he will be sent for treatment. Migrants belonging to Pilibhit and Rampur districts have been sent back home, while the remaining will go on Sunday. We have advised them to follow the guidelines, download Aarogya Setu app and maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1500-migrant-workers-brought-to-bareilly-from-uttarakhand/articleshow/75511798.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers seek MGNREGA work for 150 days||Trichy: There is a growing demand among farmers in the delta region to increase the number of working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme from 100 to 150 days. Even though works under the scheme have commenced, only one-third of the workers are employed stating the need to observe social distancing, forcing workers to wait for weeks for their turn. If the number of working days is increased, more number of labourers would get work, farmers said. “It is good to see that labourers who had been idle for more than a month in the wake of the lockdown have been allowed to get back to work. However, the entire workforce has not benefited. Only 30 to 35 per cent of the workforce have be given work across the state, citing the need for social distancing. Others have to wait for their turn”, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan. “Farmers in the delta region are also worried that they may be short of farmhands with the kuruvai season fast approaching. With water expected to be released from the Stanley reservoir by June 12, the preparatory work for kuruvai season has to commence soon. But there is bound to a shortage of labourers required in the fields,” said P Krishnamoorthi, a farmer from Lalgudi in Trichy. “As kuruvai season is emerging, farmers need more labourers to complete the work within a short period. So, the government should ensure that the required number of labourers are made available through the MGNREGA scheme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-seek-mgnrega-work-for-150-days/articleshow/75512805.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Some students say they prefer to stay than going home||NEW DELHI: Ayushi Aishwarya of Delhi University’s Ramjas College is one of the many students who is happy that she will be travelling back home. The final year student of history who lives on her own in an apartment near North Campus says that her studies have been hit due to the lockdown. A native of Patna in Bihar, she is elated with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)’s order which allows stranded migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims to go back home. “I have been stuck in my apartment for several days now. I feel that I would be more comfortable at home,” Aishwarya told TOI. She, however, added that DU was yet to reach out to her or any other student with any help in this regard. On the condition of anonymity, a senior DU official said: “We are yet to decide on this. We have only a few students in our hostels who have been provided with all the facilities. For the students stuck in PGs and apartments, we will see what can be done.” The Jamia Millia Islamia administration had recently asked its students staying in the hostels to vacate the premises because the university was in proximity to major containment zones. However, many students have said they will prefer staying in the hostels than going back home. All India Students Association on Sunday claimed that the "forcible eviction would put lives of hundreds of students under risk." Azeem Ahmed, the university’s media co-ordinator, however, said, “The university has been taking care of the students who are residing in hostel since the lockdown started. Now also, the university officials will ensure that the students reach home safe.” At JNU, the administration on Sunday announced that the varsity would remain closed till May 17. “Students are required to stay back where they are and should not return to the campus until further orders,” the circular read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/some-students-say-they-prefer-to-stay-than-going-home/articleshow/75524330.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kalahandi police counsels lockdown violators||Bhubaneswar: Lockdown violators in Kalahandi district are not just being penalized or booked for roaming unnecessarily in motorcycles or for not wearing masks but are also being counselled by the cops before being punished since the last two days. “We ensure that the violators are taught and counselled about the lockdown norms. Our personnel are counselling them on the necessity of staying home, maintaining social distancing and wearing masks,” Kalahandi superintendent of police Battula Gangadhar said. Currently, Kalahandi district has no active Covid-19 positive cases. Two persons, who were recently tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district, have recovered. Police said the purpose of counselling is not to harass or punish anyone. While police in other districts are registering cases, imposing fine or seizing vehicles of lockdown violators before letting them off, the offenders in Kalahandi are being taken to a spacious place to wait and attend the counselling by police. The violators take lessons from the police counsellors for about 15 minutes and return home. “We ensure that the social distance is maintained among violators in the teaching session. Our personnel are sensitizing violators about the safety of their own and family members. The violators are being made aware of the government’s guidelines, regulations and penal provisions,” Gangadhar said. Police sources said at least 221 FIRs related to violation of lockdown norms were registered in Kalahandi district in the last one month. Around 326 persons were either booked or arrested and 93 vehicles seized during the period. The Kalahandi district administration on Friday appealed to people and shopkeepers to maintain a diary of persons they come in contact with every day so that the government can quickly conduct contact tracing in case of detection of Covid-19 cases in the district. It may not be possible for people to remember names of persons they come in contact every day. They should write down the names in a diary. “Shopkeepers too should keep details of their customers and their phone numbers,” Kalahandi district collector Gavali Parag Harshad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kalahandi-police-counsels-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75510881.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Uncertainty looms large over postgraduate dental students||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has adversely affected the dental practice, is also expected to have an impact on the postgraduate students as they stare towards an uncertain future. Dentistry has become a high-risk career clinics have seen decline in footfall after the coronavirus outbreak. Dr Afrah Fatima, a post-graduate student of Panineeya Dental College in Dilsukhnagar said, “With dentists highly susceptible to Covid-19, the postgraduates passing out this year after a rigorous three-year training in various fields are worried about the future.” “Will we be able to support ourselves or our families? It is beyond doubt that Covid-19 will have a tremendous impact on the lives of young dentists,” added Fatima. The postgraduates, utilizing the time to prepare for their final examinations, are concerned about the post-lockdown scenario. “Surge in dental procedure prices appears imminent as dentists will now have to use new PPEs for every patient. Most of the revenue is from cosmetic treatments will be off the table for another six months. Hence, the revenue cycle is hampered, which will have a direct impact on our jobs,” said Dr Sami Ahmed, a post graduate student of Sri Sai College of dental surgery. Speaking to TOI, Dr K Mahendranadh Reddy, professor and HoD, prosthodontist and implantologyst, said, “The current situation will not have a major impact on the industry but those who want to do private practice should be prepared for a slowdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uncertainty-looms-large-over-postgraduate-dental-students/articleshow/75512382.cms||Moulika.KV
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt issues SOP to send back workers||Bhubaneswar: The Naveen Patnaik government has started the process of sending home more than 60,000 migrant workers from different states who have been stuck in various temporary shelters in Odisha. A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued to all collectors and municipal commissioners by the revenue and disaster management department to ensure smooth return of the workers by road or rail. In the SOP, special relief commissioner PK Jena has asked all collectors and municipal commissioners to obtain prior approval of their counterparts in the recipient states before the departure of any train or bus carrying migrant workers from Odisha. While collectors and municipal commissioners have been authorised to issue transit passes for road journey by bus or vans, they have been asked to provide details about the passengers, destination (district/block) and their mobile numbers to their counterparts or state coordinators in the recipient states. To ease the difficulty, the SRC asked the collectors and municipal commissioners to divide the workers in groups according to their districts and blocks while boarding buses/vans. “One of the passengers of each group, someone with a smartphone, may be designated as the group coordinator. His or her mobile number may be passed on to the recipient collector/municipal commissioner or state coordinator,” said Jena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-issues-sop-to-send-back-workers/articleshow/75510864.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Bridge over troubled waters: Project to link Gadchiroli’s remote areas||Nagpur: Through an innovative development project which will serve a dual purpose — conservation and road connectivity, the Gadchiroli district administration and Zilla Parishad have joined hands to ensure that the remotest hamlets do not get isolated during the monsoon. Around 32 villages in Gadchiroli have been earmarked for a ‘check dam-cum-road’ project on nullahs and rivurines which get flooded during the rains, disconnecting the hamlets for days and disrupting the normal lives of villagers who are already hit by poor infrastructure. Every year, the district administration struggles to extend aid and assistance to villages cut off from the main stream due to flooded nullahs and rivurines. The lack of development due to Maoist insurgency coupled with heavy floods have added to the hardships of tribals in the remote hamlets which are also immersed in darkness due to the snapped power supply. Collector Dipak Singla, who had toured a few interior locations in the highly-sensitive Etapalli and Regdi few months ago, said the estimated Rs20-25 lakh budget on each check dam-cum-road project would be taken from the district planning committee (DPC) fund. He lauded ZP CEO Vijay Rathod for coming up with the innovative project. “Through this project, we are aiming for a two-way solution which will connect the unconnected villages which are in the interiors of the remote district. The check dams on the nullahs or rivurines will not only help in water conservation but also serve as roads for vehicles or other road users,” said Singla. The zilla parishad will finalize the villages where the project will be implemented. Singla said that out of sheer desperation, villagers risk their lives while trying to cross overflowing nullahs or rivurines during the monsoon. “Tribals use canoes or small boats to cross flooded streams despite the dangerous currents to fetch daily need items or medicines. We are trying to provide an alternative by making check dams which would double up as roads with decent width,” he said. Singla sounded hopeful of finalizing the finer details of the project soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bridge-over-troubled-waters-project-to-link-gadchirolis-remote-areas/articleshow/75520047.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||One more containment zone denotified in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: The district disaster management authority on Saturday denotified containment zone 6 that it had announced for Permannur village in Ullal town municipality limits. The zone was set up with regard to the Covid-19 patient designated P-144, for Smart City and Smart Planet apartment, and was denotified. The district administration hitherto has already denotified three other such zones, based on a report of the DHO, after no new Covid-19 case was reported in the denotified areas in the last 28 days. The district presently has eight containment zones, in specific areas, at Sampya and Uppinangady in Puttur taluk, Thumbe, B Kasba and Narikombu villages in Bantwal taluk, First Neuro Hospital, Kakkebettu and Padavu villages and Boloor, in Mangaluru City Corporation limits. The containment zones pertain to 14 active cases under treatment, and those who have succumbed to the pandemic in the district, which has recorded three deaths. In a related development, the district administration has decided to announce its decision on restarting businesses in the district on Sunday. The modalities of the same were discussed at length in a video conference that the chief minister had with the heads of the district administration, earlier in the day. The relaxations will be given based on the district’s overall classification, with no activity permitted in any of the above-mentioned containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/one-more-containment-zone-denotified-in-dk/articleshow/75510900.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nashik||BKC hostel converted into quarantine facility||Nashik: The MET Bhujbal Knowledge City (BKC) students’ hostel has been converted into a quarantine facility for police personnel and their families who may have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. The hostel was made available by former MP Sameer Bhujbal on the instructions of Chhagan Bhujbal. There are a total of 75 flats in the hostel. It can accommodate 350 police personnel and their family members. The police are doing their duty around-the-clock to prevent the spread of Covid 19. Superintendent of police,Nashik rural police, Arti Singh had approached the MET Bhujbal Knowledge City at Adgaon for getting a part of the premises where police personnel can get their medical check-up done. She also requested that the hostel which is close to the headquarters of rural police be turned into quarantine facility. SP Arti Singh said that scores of police personnel are working in the containment areas of Malegaon to ensure that lockdown is followed by everyone and people do not venture out of their houses. Some policemen who have contracted the infection have been hospitalised. However, police personnel who have come in contact with such patients should get their medical check-up done and should be quarantined for a period of 14 days. Therefore, the new facility will ensure that policemen, who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients but do not show any symptoms, can be quarantined there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bkc-hostel-converted-into-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75511813.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Gujarati galli community kitchen feeds migrants, Covid warriors||Hyderabad: A long queue snakes past Gujarati galli in Koti as migrants and farmers stuck in the city wait for a fresh meal. Ever since the lockdown came into force, a community kitchen in the area has been serving food to at least 1,000 people every day. Preparation for the meal starts at 6am. A group of 12 people chop, cook and serve in pairs. Massive ‘khadais’ on stoves can be seen with the meal of the day: On Saturday, it was ‘poori-sabzi’. The Sunday special being planned was ‘pav bhaji’. “The worst affected by the lockdown are daily wagers. With business coming to a halt in the city, these people are on the roads wondering where their next meal will come from. Seeing their plight, we decided to intervene,” Anjana Mehta, a homemaker, who is among the first to hit on the idea of the community kitchen, told TOI. Others who are part of the group include Sandeep Shah, Indu Gantra, Bhavesh Metha, Swati Jhawar, Ashok Birla, Gokul Asawa, Lalit Jain, Rajesh Tavdare, Neeta Mehta, Ramchander and Aarti Purohit. The kitchen is a gender-neutral space with men also taking part in the cooking. “I began by distributing sanitisers, masks and gloves, but realised that feeding people had to be the first priority. We cannot let people sleep hungry,” Sandeep Shah, a jeweller, said. After they feed those lined up, the group also takes food to hospitals, orphanages, police and GHMC workers up to Abids. Around 75kg of cooked food is served daily. “The happiness of well-fed people is the only payment we expect,” says Shah. Daily wager Muthyam Reddy, who used to get Rs 10,000 a month, says he is dependent on the community kitchen for food. “At least, I don’t have to struggle for a meal,” he says. Another beneficiary Venkat Rao, a farmer from Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh, stuck in the city can’t be more thankful. “In the times of crisis like this, it’s their generosity that is keeping us going.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gujarati-galli-community-kitchen-feeds-migrants-covid-warriors/articleshow/75512822.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bhopal||After month of corona phobia, youth kills self in Gwalior||Bhopal: A civilian employee of a Military Engineering Services (MES) unit, who was home-quarantined in Gwalior district, committed suicide on Friday night, allegedly out of fear that he was infected with Covid-19 and hadn’t been tested for a month despite repeated pleas. His sample was collected after his death on Saturday. The victim, Dilip Singh of Sonepat (Haryana), left a two-page note, blaming health officials of “undue delay” in testing him for coronavirus. P 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-month-of-corona-phobia-youth-kills-self-in-gwalior/articleshow/75512821.cms||P Naveen
May 3, 2020||Nashik||33 MMC peons booked, didn’t report duty||NASHIK: As many as 33 peons of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation have been booked under section 188 of the IPC for not joining their duties since March 25 to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the textile town. A complaint in this regard has been registered with the Killa police station of Malegaon. The complainant Sanjay Pawar, the chief fire officer of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has stated that the concerned peons were expected to take up their duty to stop the spread of Covid-19. They were earlier deployed as peons in various other departments of the MMC. However, after the spread of Covid-19 became evident in Malegaon they stopped coming to duty from March 25. The concerned contractual peons are appointed for a period of six months. Since they did not turn-up for their duty despite repeated reminders, a complaint was registered against them on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/33-mmc-peons-booked-didnt-report-duty/articleshow/75511829.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Power consumption dips by 50% despite peak summer||HYDERABAD: As against the expectations of power consumption going up to 70 million units per day in and around Greater Hyderabad, it has come down by 50%. On May 1, power consumption was less than 40 million units. TSGenco and TSTransco had made arrangements to supply 70 million units of power to Greater Hyderabad during May. Though people are staying indoors and power consumption on domestic front has increased, closure of industries, commercial establishments, malls and multiplexes due to lockdown has led to drastic reduction in power consumption. During summers, TSSPDCL supplies 65 million units to 70 million units on an average per day. At the peak of winters, this reduces to 38 million units. So, the consumption of power on May 1 was equivalent to what is consumed in peak winter, an official said. The total power consumption came down from 160 million units on May 1 in 2019 to 133 million units on May 1 in 2020. Power demand in industries, commercial establishments and from the agriculture sector has come down drastically in rural areas after April 15, officials said. So much so, Genco has reduced generation at its power plants in Kothagudem, Ramagundm and Singareni Collieries plant in Adilabad, officials said. “We are expecting that consumption will go up once industries start operating,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-consumption-dips-by-50-despite-peak-summer/articleshow/75512388.cms||Roushan Ali
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For author, morning rituals govern the day||Bhubaneswar: Every day, Shakuntala Baliarsingh wakes up before dawn. She likes the early flow of breeze as she immerses herself into the world of devotion and faith while listening to Hindi and Odia bhajans and tales from mythologies on the airwaves. With the house getting filled up with ‘positive’ vibes, the 72-year-old Sahitya Akademi award winner does her yoga. “What I do during this time of the day is important for both my body and soul,” said the author. Her morning routine done, she gets down to work, checking Phd thesis and a manuscript for a Hindi book. The reading and writing continues even after lunch before she moves to her own readings – Odia Bhagabata, books by Khalil Gibran and Nobel laureates’ memoirs. She also uses time to write articles for newspapers. “Currently, I am not working on any major project. I cannot force creativity upon myself. It has to come automatically,” said Shakuntala, who has not stepped out of her home since March 22. “During this difficult time, we should abide by what the government has asked us to do and not contract the infection,” she added. Her schedule includes spending time in her garden. Walking around greenery, cleaning the garden and pruning and watering the plants. She takes care of the Bael tree that has huge medicinal value. Watching epics on the television and serials of historical value also keep her occupied. “Epics are mind-churning. I explain their value to my grandchildren, who are currently at home and pursuing their studies online. Children need to be guided and that’s what I am doing,” said Shakuntala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-author-morning-rituals-govern-the-day/articleshow/75510903.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||26 more test positive in Vadodara, tally now 350||Vadodara: As many as 26 more persons including four members of the same family tested positive for Covid-19 in the city since Friday evening. With this the total number of positive cases in the city touched 350. The new cases have come from different areas in the city. The new areas from where the cases came to light included Sanstha Vasahat that has several hospitals, clinic and pharmaceutical dealers, Vishwamitri area and Waghodiya Road. The four cases from Sanstha Vasahat included a man, his wife, mother and daughter. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that the source of infection in the family’s case is not known. The cases on Waghodiya Road included a man staying in the same society. An elderly woman staying in the Vishwamitri area also tested positive. In this case too, the source of infection is not yet to be ascertained. The remaining cases were from the Nagarwada, Nyay Mandir, Navabazar, Panigate, Wadi, Jubelibaug, Pratapagar and Mandvi area of the city. A major relief was that no deaths were reported in the city due to Covid-19. VMC officials said that the 26 positive cases were from 215 tests for which results were provided to the civic body. Out of the 184 active Covid-19 cases in the city, 173 were stable, seven were on oxygen and four were on ventilators or BiPAP machines. The door-to-door surveys conducted by teams of the civic body did not lead them to any suspicious Covid-19 or severe and acute respiratory illness cases. The administration continued its efforts to expand the treatment facilities as well as enrol manpower for Covid-19. The Railway Hospital in the city was ready with a capacity of a 50-bed Covid Health Centre that can be used for patients who do not have very serious symptoms. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao suggested that this should be increased to 500. Discussions were also held with functionaries of Reliance Industries Ltd, ONGC Ltd and IOC Ltd for augmenting manpower and equipment needed for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/26-more-test-positive-in-vadodara-tally-now-350/articleshow/75512027.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 480 return from Kota, relief writ large on their faces||NEW DELHI: “Words can’t describe the relief I felt on seeing my father and brothers waiting for me near our house where I was dropped in the morning,” said Juhi Verma, a 19-year-old Badarpur resident. She is one of the 480 students from Delhi who were preparing for NEET in Rajasthan’s Kota and got stranded there after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced in March end. On Sunday morning, all of them finally reached home. Following an announcement by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, Delhi government sent 40 private buses to Kota on Friday night, and after health screening by accompanying personnel, the students left for the capital on Saturday evening. After the buses reached Kashmere Gate Interstate Bus Terminus, the students were sent home in Delhi Transport Corporation buses. “As students from many states were being taken back, the rest of us started panicking. So we, the students from Delhi, were relieved when we got to know about the government’s decision,” Verma said. “The students were screened at the meeting point, their bags were sanitised and they were given kits with masks, sanitisers etc,” her father, Ashwani Kumar, said. “We were told she would be dropped near home and we were waiting. She was handed over to us and I had to write on a form that she has reached safely,” he said. The past six weeks have been tough for the Verma family, though they spoke to Juhi at least thrice a day. “The families kept requesting Delhi government through social media and also contacted the coaching institutes in Kota for the exact number of students stranded there,” Kumar said. While arrangements were made for 813 students, only 480 students were brought back as the rest weren’t from Delhi, the government said. At the ISBT, 11 district counters were made, where every student was screened for Covid-19. Each of them was visibly relieved when they finally got a coupon indicating the DTC bus number for their route. “I am delighted that we brought back all our students from Kota safely. I request all students to stay in home isolation for 14 days for the safety of their families,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/480-return-from-kota-relief-writ-large-on-their-faces/articleshow/75524337.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For Shakuntala, morning rituals guide the day||Bhubaneswar: Every day, Shakuntala Baliarsingh wakes up before dawn. She likes the early flow of breeze into the house as she immerses herself into the world of devotion and faith while listening to Hindi and Odia bhajans and tales from mythologies on the airwaves. With the house getting filled up with ‘positive’ vibes, the 72-year-old Sahitya Akademi award winner does her yoga. “What I do during this time of the day is important for both my body and soul,” said the author. Her morning routine done, she gets down to work, checking Phd thesis and a manuscript for a Hindi book. The reading and writing continues even after lunch before she moves to her own readings – Odia Bhagabata, books by Khalil Gibran and Nobel laureates’ memoirs. She also uses time to write articles for newspapers. “Currently, I am not working on any major project. I cannot force creativity upon myself. It has to come automatically,” said Shakuntala, who has not stepped out of her home since March 22. “During this difficult time, we should abide by what the government has asked us to do and not contract the infection,” she added. Her schedule includes spending time amid the greenery of her garden. Walking around the garden, cleaning it and pruning and watering the plants. She takes particular care of the Bael tree that has huge medicinal value. Watching epics on the television and serials of historical value also keep her occupied. “Epics are mind-churning. I explain their value to my grandchildren, who are currently at home and pursuing their studies online. Children need to be guided and that’s what I am doing,” said Shakuntala. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-shakuntala-morning-rituals-guide-the-day/articleshow/75510936.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Security guard killed in hit-and-run case||MANGALURU: An unidentified vehicle mowed down a 62-year-old security guard near Guruvayanakere, Belthangady taluk, on Saturday. The deceased Lingappa Moolya was returning to his home in Guruvayanakere on a two-wheeler when the hit-and-run case took place. Police said he was hit by a truck. A guard at an ATM, Moolya was also an active member of the local Kulala Association. A case was registered at Belthangady police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/security-guard-killed-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/75510920.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Expedite road restoration works: KTR to GHMC||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration & urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao directed GHMC officials to expedite road restoration works in the city. Officials were also told to speed up laying and developing slip roads. The meeting was held at the GHMC’s directorate of enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) office in Buddha Bhavan. According to GHMC officials the average width of the roads which will merge with link roads and national highways will be 120 feet. “Telangana has been recognised for using the lockdown constructively. The target should be to turn Hyderabad into a traffic free city,” Rao said at the meeting, citing the works being done under the road restoration and strategic road development plan (SRDP). GHMC officials were informed that the city’s master plan will be updated soon and land acquisition shall be done accordingly. “We were informed that there is no shortage of funds were directed to acquire land for construction of flyovers, underpasses and rail over bridges,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-to-ghmc-expedite-road-restoration-works/articleshow/75512392.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 16-year-old girl mysteriously burnt alive; her GRP constable father booked||BAREILLY: On her way to meet grandparents in Moradabad, a 16-year-old girl charred as the car she was travelling in along with her father went up in flames after crashing into the concrete embankment of a culvert in Shivnagar Patharkhera area. Her father, a constable posted in Ghaziabad who was behind the wheel, however, escaped unhurt. The incident was, however, reported to police on Friday morning by the village headman, suspecting a foul play after the girl’s kin cremated her “hurriedly without informing anyone, especially police”. According to police, the GRP constable and his daughter had left Ghaziabad around 6pm on Thursday for Moradabad’s Thakurdwara locality in their CNG-run car. However, when they reached Shivnagar Patharkhera in Moradabad, the constable lost control over the vehicle and rammed into the concrete embankment. As the vehicle went up in flames as soon as it crashed, he jumped out of the car, while her daughter burnt alive, said police. Investigating officer sub-inspector Pramod Yadav said, “The constable jumped out of the burning car, but he did not make effort to rescue his daughter and she burnt alive. After the accident, the cop contacted three of his relatives who rushed to the spot and they hurriedly cremated the girl’s body on the banks of Lapkana river and immersed the ashes.” “Prima facie, their activity appears suspicious since he didn’t inform police. Besides, they destroyed evidence deliberately by immersing ashes,” stated the SI in his complaint, following which a case was registered. Thakurdwara station house officer inspector Satendra Panwar said the cop was booked under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), while three of his relatives were booked under section 201. Meanwhile, police sources said the cop got married to his elder brother’s wife and the mother of a daughter, after his brother, a GRP constable, died while on duty. In 2005, he joined the GRP on the compensatory ground. According to the SHO, the constable has a nine-year-old daughter and a four-year-old son from the marriage with his brother’s wife. According to the SHO, the constable has a nine-year-old daughter and a four-year-old son from the marriage with his brother’s wife. Deputy superintendent of police Vishal Yadav said, “We are verifying all information. Our investigation is underway and we are probing all angles. Based on the probe, further course of action will be decided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/grp-constables-teen-daughter-mysteriously-burnt-alive-fir-lodged/articleshow/75511862.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||State draws flak for stay on wildlife census||Aurangabad: The annual wildlife census, now popularly known as ‘Nisarga Anubhav’, will not be conducted at the sanctuaries and territorial forests among other designated areas across Maharashtra on Buddha Pournima — the designated day for carrying out the activity every year. Though the government has eased some restrictions, especially in the ‘orange’ and ‘green’ zones, for the third phase of the lockdown beginning May 4, the state forest department has not issued a fresh communication to supersede its previous communication dated April 23. The previous communication had said that the wildlife census has been ‘stayed’ in the wake of the outbreak of Covid 19 and possible violation of social distancing norms. The blanket decision has drawn the ire of conservationists and nature-lovers. Moreover, with the surge in the sightings of wild animals amid the ongoing lockdown, the forest department has been requested to review its decision of staying the annual census. Environmentalist Milind Girdhari said annual wildlife census must go ahead with the available resources and in compliance with the lockdown norms. “It is wrong to skip the annual activity completely. The ground staff and trap cameras can be aptly used to record observations and documentation. The census data amid the current lockdown may shed more light on population trends in wildlife,” said Girdhari.  Echoing similar views, Yadav Tarte Patil of the conservation group ‘Disha’ said, “The wildlife census involves raising machans (raised platform carved out of bamboo for sighting of animals) among other works that begin a few weeks in advance. The corpus of funds allocated for the purpose will go in waste if the census is not carried out.” “Every year, the wildlife census serves an opportunity for reviewing the waterhole and other arrangements. If social distancing is the only concern, authorities must not involve public in the census activities,” said Patil. In Marathwada, the wildlife census is carried out at the Gautala Autramghat wildlife sanctuary spanning over Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts and Yedshi Ramling wildlife sanctuary in Osmanabad district every year. Buddha Pournima, the full moon during summer, is considered as an ideal time for collecting wildlife data as depleting water resources attract many creatures towards waterholes. When contacted, B S Hooda, additional principal chief conservator of forests based out of Nagpur, said the feedback of the conservationists on the stay on the wildlife census would be taken into consideration officially. “Our chief concern is social distancing, which is not possible to observe while recording observations from machans for a considerable number of hours. The top government authorities will be consulted before reviewing the decision of staying the census,” said Hooda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-draws-flak-for-stay-on-wildlife-census/articleshow/75511859.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||Covid patient booked for posting video about ‘poor’ facilities at isolation ward||Rampur: Police in Rampur on Saturday registered an FIR against a Covid-19 patient after he uploaded a video about patients at an isolation ward not being provided iftar and sehri during Ramzan.District magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh told TOI that the patient has been booked for uploading the video on social media, in which he had levelled false allegations against the authorities.The patient, a contractual employee at the Rampur district hospital, was admitted to Muhammad Ali Jauhar University's medical college while parents and brother were also quarantined.“The 25-year-old patient had not been cooperating with the authorities from day one. He was not forthcoming initially about his family details as the health staff wanted to quarantine them and also trace his other contacts,” the DM said.The DM said that the hospital authorities are providing healthy and hygienic food to all patients and also those in the quarantine facilities. “Sehri and iftar are ebing provided too to the Muslim patients as this is the month of Ramzan,” Singh said. A case has been registered against him at Azeemnagar police station. He was booked under IPC’s sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 3 of the Disaster Management Act and section 66 of the Information Technology Act. On Saturday, another video of the same patient went viral, in which he can be seen apologizing to the authorities and telling that he had uploaded the earlier video under depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-patient-booked-for-posting-video-about-poor-facilities-at-isolation-ward/articleshow/75511867.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||Migrant worker who died on way toBihar on bicycle tests negative for Covid-19||Bareilly: A 35-year-old migrant worker, who died in UP's Shahjahanpur while on way back to Bihar from Delhi on his bicycle, was tested negative for Covid-19. He died due to "lung infection".Dharamveer was a resident of Khairaat village of Khagaria district in Bihar and used to live in Shakurbasti area in Delhi. The district administration was planning to send his body to Bihar, but his family decided to come to Shahjahanpur instead.He was part of a seven-member group which took off from Delhi on Tuesday morning on their bicycles after they feared that the lockdown would be extended again. The group decided to take rest near an under construction toll plaza in Shahjahanpur when it suddenly started to rain on Thursday night. On Friday morning, Dharamveer complained of chest pain and died before receiving any medical attention. Health department has kept the other members of his group under institutional quarantine in Shahjahanpur.Dr Sandesh Gupta, a member of autopsy team, told TOI, “Infection in the lungs was the cause of death. The infection may be due to tuberculosis.” While CMO Rajeev Gupta said, “Dharamveer was tested negative for Covid-19 but we still kept the other members of his group under institutional quarantine. His family has contacted us and said they are on their way to Shahjahanpur. So, we have kept the body at a mortuary after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/migrant-worker-who-died-on-way-tobihar-on-bicycle-tests-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/75511881.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi: RWAs hesitant to take call on domestic helps||NEW DELHI: A day after the Centre left it to residents’ welfare associations to decide on allowing domestic helps in their colonies, some initiatives have been started by them after consulting each other. This includes basic health check-up for maids and drivers, thermal scanners to test their temperature and providing them masks. However, RWAs in Greater Kailash I and II accused the government of passing the buck. They said the government knows the gravity of the situation, but was still making announcements that would lead to arguments and confusion. They are planning to allow domestic helps only in case of emergency or for senior citizens. Ruby Makhija, a member of Navjivan Vihar RWA, said at least 25 associations jointly pursued Delhi government on Saturday to get clarity on the matter. “We can’t force a decision on residents unless there is a clear-cut order. The announcement by the Centre is like passing the buck. How can we find out if these workers are infected and stop them from visiting houses?” she asked. The Jangpura Extension RWA has requested residents to avoid calling maids and servants for another week. Kapil Kakkar, RWA president, said, “We are making arrangements for checking flu and respiratory symptoms of maids. There were plans of conducting basic tests, but that didn’t materialise. We want to ensure that those visiting multiple places don’t become carriers of infection. The local police should help implement these directions.” The president of GK S-Block RWA, MK Gupta, said, “There are around 400 maids who come to the area daily. Most of them visit multiple houses. It will be difficult to check them regularly. Senior citizens and the unwell can call the maids, but only from gate 2 where mask will be given, thermal screening will be done and their hands will be sanitised. Residents will have to ensure that maids don’t roam around and sit in parks and leave the colony immediately after doing the work.” Many RWAs argued that they can’t force residents to accept their decision, especially when they are non-members. “In case something goes wrong, we will be blamed. If the government makes the situation conducive and ensures zero movement from containment zones, then restrictions can be eased. It’s better to wait till May 10,” said Rajeev Kakria of E-Block RWA, GK-I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-hesitant-to-take-call-on-domestic-helps/articleshow/75524360.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||More plaints pour in about quarantine facilities||Aurangabad: Two videos shot by people staying at quarantine facilities of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation allegedly show the poor arrangements of accommodation and transport for the suspected Covid-19 patients. Though the AMC officials have said that the allegations are baseless, changes have been made as per the directives from the municipal corporation A man quarantined at Padampura Emergency Operations Centre shot a video where he alleges that after one of his neighbours had tested positive for coronavirus, the AMC teams shortlisted the close contacts and took them to the quarantine facility crammed in an ambulance. The man in the video alleged that he had no contact with the Covid-19 patient but because he was transported in the ambulance, he tested positive later. He also said that there is no water available at the Padampura quarantine facility. In another set of video, which was shot by a person quarantined at Qile Ark quarantine facility, allegedly shows lack of sanitation in the toilets and five to six mattresses laid on beds and on the floor in a hostel room. The person also said the on-duty staff does not clean the room. Talking about the Padampura quarantine facility, AMC city engineer Sakharam Panzade said that it has proper water supply. He said that the people were brought to the quarantine facility in a crowded ambulance but that cannot be the reason for the man testing positive as it takes at least five to six days for the infection to manifest.  Responding to the allegations made by a quarantined person from Qile Ark facility, Panzade said, “I have asked about the allegations to the staff and they said that people should use toilets responsibly and flush properly.” Meanwhile, the municipal body’s teams have been directed not to bring suspected cases to a quarantine facility. Instead, their throat swab samples will be collected at their residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/more-plaints-pour-in-about-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75511873.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||Jahanabad inter college turned into quarantine centre for Covid medical staff||Pilibhit: The district health authorities have acquired a private educational institution, HK Public Inter Collage, in Jahanabad town to convert it into the first active quarantine centre in Pilibhit to house medical staff on Covid duty.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Seema Agrawal, said the intercollege premises needed minor repairs and renovation work to house the medical staff. It was selected for setting up an active quarantine centre as it is situated opposite the community health centre (CHC) that has been transformedinto a 300-bed L1 COVID-19 hospital.“The active quarantine centre is for housing of 20 to 25 members of the medical team that will be dedicated to treating novel coronavirus infected patients. Housing them in proximity of the hospital is to ensure prompt connectivity between patients and medical staff. The move will also ensure safetyof the medical team,” the CMO added.Senior officials, including DM Vaibhav Shrivastav, inspected the Covid facility on Saturday.Agrawal said efforts are on to convert the CHC at Madhotanda into a L1 hospital for COVID-19 patients. “We will soon hire two-three flats near the CHC to set up active quarantine centre for the medical staff there,” she added.So far, the district health administration had set up six quarantine centres for housing of symptomatic persons. Of these, three are situated at the district headquarters while oneeach is in Bisalpur, Amaria and Madhotanda.The CMO said, “The department has made exclusive arrangements for thequarantining women in two government flats in the district government hospital campus with a view to maintaining their privacy.” \||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/jahanabad-inter-college-turned-into-quarantine-centre-for-covid-medical-staff/articleshow/75511875.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Final-yr PG students jittery about working in GMCH’s Covid ward||Aurangabad: The final-year postgraduate students working as resident doctors at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) are finding themselves in a tight spot as they have had to give an undertaking to the hospital administration that they are ready to work in the Covid-19 ward.Incidentally, the term of the course for the 121 final-year postgraduate students in GMCH Aurangabad has ended. They were scheduled to appear for their final exams on May 15. However, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the exams have been postponed. The directorate of medical education and research (DMER) has issued a directive as per which all final year resident doctors, who want to continue their duty with the medical college, should sign up to work in the Covid-19 ward. The term of those unwilling to work in the Covid-19 wards will not be extended, states the directive. Hence, the resident doctors are now in two minds over whether to continue their services at the GMCH or not. Subsequently, they are required to give an undertaking that they are willing to work in different department as heads of department decide and also in the Covid-19 ward.When asked, GMCH medical suprintendent Suresh Harbade said that the condition was stipulated to merely fulfill an official documentation which gives the institution an assurance that that the doctors agreed to work beyond the expiry of their term.However, resident doctors are getting jittery with an undertaking that they have signed and given to the GMCH stating that they are agreeing to work in the Covid-19 ward willfully. According to president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), Aurangabad chapter, Amir Khan, the undertaking has been sought by the institution so that the doctors and their families do not blame the institution later if they get infected with Covid-19. In a meeting held with the GMCH administration, the Mard members also raised concerns of resident doctors working in the Covid-19 ward about the quality of PPE kits. However, the administration told the members that the PPE provided to them were as per standards and if the PPE was of thicker material, it would cause sweat and discomfort to the doctors and make it difficult for them to work.Meanwhile, the resident doctors are still waiting for their stipend for the last two to three months. The GMCH administration has assured that the payment will be cleared soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/final-yr-pg-students-jittery-about-working-in-gmchs-covid-ward/articleshow/75511890.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 3, 2020||Bareilly||MJP varsity begins online registration for admission in UG courses||Bareilly: The online registration for admission for 2020-21 academic session started for undergraduate courses in affiliated colleges of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule (MJP) Rohilkhand University on Saturday. Some 70 students got themselves registered. Registrar Sunita Pandey said the online registration for various undergraduate courses, including BA, BSc, BCom, BBA, BCA and various diploma courses, have started. Students seeking admission in these courses can get themselves registered after paying a sum of Rs 100 through debit or credit cards or net banking.According to officials, the applicants have to fill marks of Class X while registering online. However, they will have to give details of Class XII when results are announced. When the registration will be closed, the colleges will make a merit list for admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mjp-varsity-begins-online-registration-for-admission-in-ug-courses/articleshow/75511888.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Hospital struggles with less than half the workforce of Class-IV staffers||Aurangabad: With the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) administration deciding against deploying Class-IV healthcare staffers aged over 50 years as well as those suffering from different ailments on frontline duties, the hospital is left with very few of the total Class-IV staffers.Those ageing above 50 years of age are considered to be prone to getting infected with Covid-19. Of 470 permanent Class-IV staffers, about 200 are above the age of 50 years while there 50 staffers who are either suffering from ailments like blood pressure, diabetes, or are alcoholics, leaving the GMCH with less than half of the total available strength of Class-IV employees.Following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), half of these staffers, after working for a fortnight, are being advised to remain in institutional or home quarantine for 14 days, leaving GMCH with 100 odd staff of the total staffers.Initially, a batch of 30 Class-IV staffers was deployed at dedicated Covid-19 building. However, they are now being shifted to quarantine. Depending on the symptoms, they are either being advised home quarantine or instituitional quarantine. There are three wards at the GMCH-based Covid-19 building. A Covid-19 help desk has also been activated in this building where risk assessment of each of those serving in the building is being done.“Any staffer across the hierarchy who is developing symptoms while working at this building is immediately quarantined at the arrangement made at the GMCH premises,” said a medical officer.An official with the GMCH administration said, “The situation is very grim. We are not far from the day when we will face shortage of staff to the extent that we will not be able to cater to the high risk, low risk or Covid-19 positive patients.”Echoing the same, a medical officer said that out of the total number of available men, at least 20 to 25 avail leave on one or the other ground, making the functioning of different departments including burn wards, OPD, difficult.Sources said that the GMCH administration is positively counseling Class-IV as well as other staffers and convincing them not to abstain from serving duty during this time of crisis. Each of these staffers work in an eight hour shift each day, said a senior medico from the GMCH.To sensitise these staffers, training sessions are also being held from time to time. “We don’t want them to panic. Because if they panic, they wont work. We are sensitizing them and are convincing them to continue with their service,” said the officer. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar could not be reached for her comments on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hospital-struggles-with-less-than-half-the-workforce-of-class-iv-staffers/articleshow/75511900.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Woman kills daughter, ends own life||Vadodara: A woman residing in the Mordungra village of Godhra taluka of Panchmahal district killed her one-year-old daughter and ended her life due to unknown reasons. An offence was registered by the Godhra taluka police station on Friday night. According to the offence regarding the incident, the woman Ramila Pateliya (35) asked her husband Raman Pateliya to go to the bank to check the balance in the account. Raman left for the bank with his son Anil. Raman used to work in Vadodara, but returned home after construction activity stopped due to the lockdown. When he returned, he found his daughter Dharmishtha and son Rajesh standing besides the bodies of Ramila and their youngest daughter Dinku. The children informed Raman that they had seen Ramila and Dinku hanging from a saree. Dharmishtha and Rajesh cut the saree with a knife to bring the bodies down. The reason for the suicide is not known yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-kills-daughter-ends-own-life/articleshow/75512039.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Migrant workers encouraged to stay put as construction gets nod||PUNE: With movement between Covid-19 hotspots and green zones increasingly restricted, the collector has asked restive migrant workers to stay back as construction activity has been allowed in non-containment zones.Senior revenue officials said migrant workers would be able to travel from hotspots such as Pune and Mumbai only if the destination states agree to receive them. The state government has appointed all district collectors as nodal officers to coordinate the movement of migrant workers and an online portal has been set up to allow those looking to travel to file an application. Collector Naval Kishore Ram said all workers need not go back to their native places, as he has allowed “construction activities for specific activities” in non-containment zones. “We will talk to the employers and ensure that workers at these sites are not deprived of their salary and ration,” Ram told TOI. “We will continue to assure them that there is no need to leave in a panic. Unless absolutely necessary, there is no need to leave,” Ram said, adding that FIRs will be filed against employers who do not pay workers. On Saturday, the collector directed municipal corporations, councils and cantonment boards allow incomplete-yet-essential construction activity to carried out before the monsoon. “with due permissions and social distancing measures”. However, this will not be applicable to containment zones. At these workplaces, thermal screening (daily) and a twice-a-week check-ups by a medical practitioners will have to be followed, he said. Those who submit online applications will be subjected to police and health checks. Additional chief secretary (revenue) and coordinating officer Nitin Kareer said nodal officers will contact their counterparts from other states and that workers would have to arrange their own transport. Those exhibiting flu-like symptoms will not be allowed to travel at all. The government has asked collectors to conduct medical tests of everyone arriving in other states. “They should be quarantined for 14 days — home or institutional. Every such person should be asked to install Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones,” the directive stated. It is estimated that over 10 lakh migrants are stranded at various places in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrant-workers-encouraged-to-stay-put-as-construction-gets-nod/articleshow/75512834.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Manpower crunch continues to plague real estate sector||Bhubaneswar: The state government has brought about some relaxations here and allowed certain construction activities even as the national lockdown has been extended to May 17. These, however, have failed to provide relief to the real estate sector. Contractors and developers are finding it hard to continue with pending projects, let alone start new ones, because of lack of manpower. Migrant workers who arrived in the state from other states to work on construction projects have either started returning or are all set to go back home, leaving the real estate sector woefully short of labourers. Those labourers who are returning to the state from other parts of the country will be out of action for at least two weeks, since they have to undergo 14 days of quarantine. “We had expected that the impact of Covid-19 on the real estate sector will continue well beyond the lockdown period and this is exactly what is happening. Construction workers are leaving for their hometowns and those returning to Odisha can’t work now due to isolation norms,” Nishit Ranjan Nanda, president of Association for Odisha Real Estate Developers (Aford), said. Nanda said the peak construction work season, which is summer, was almost over. By the time things normalise, monsoon would have arrived, adding to the ongoing crisis, he added. “The loss of construction time will also pose a problem in getting occupancy certificates from the concerned authorities,” he further said. Nanda said although the loss of construction time would be treated as a force majeure (a contract clause that frees both parties from liabilities or obligations in the event of extraordinary circumstances) and RERA might consider this period to be excluded from the agreement period with customers, the validity of the building plan approval, which is usually three years, would pose a problem for developers unless the validity duration is extended. Chairman of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Odisha, D S Tripathy also said the lockdown had badly affected the real estate sector and the impact would be long-lasting. “The sector is expected to face acute shortage of manpower,” he said. President of the city chapter of Credai, Kantilal Patel, said the pandemic and the simultaneous lockdown had brought the sector to a grinding halt. “The unavailability of construction workers is going to worsen things,” he said. Besides developers, contractors taking on re-erection or redevelopment work are also suffering because of the repatriation of construction workers. “I have hired nearly 70 workers from Bengal for my projects. The work has stopped and their return will pose more problems for me,” Gyana Mohanty, a contractor working in Bomikhal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/manpower-crunch-continues-to-plague-real-estate-sector/articleshow/75510966.cms||Sandip Mishra
May 3, 2020||Surat||SMC means biz even if it’s for migrants||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) may be feeding about 5.5 lakh people twice a day with the help of non-government organizations, but it was business as usual for it when it ferried migrant Odia workers from Pandesara to railway station on Saturday. They had to shell out Rs10 each as bus fare from Piyush Point to the railway station. What’s more, fare was collected in advance by SMC for 40 city buses that were pressed into service. “When Indian Railways is charging train fare from Odia migrants, why can’t we? We provided transport service from Pandesara to railway station,” said an officer of BRT cell. The buses were sanitized prior to boarding and again after these returned to base, sources said. Surat Odia Welfare Association VP, Bhagirath Bahera said, “It was unfair on SMC to collect bus fare. Train and bus fare was collected in advance which we deposited with the district administration so that they could board it. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-means-biz-even-if-its-for-migrants/articleshow/75510985.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Hundreds find online process very tedious||Pune: The online application process for heading back home has hit several migrant workers hard. “Hamein yeah (online application) kuchh samajh nahin aa raha hain (We can’t understand the process),” says Premkumar from Agra, stranded with 24 others in Wagholi. The migrant workers also have to post their medical certificates from flu clinics online.  Nearly 40,000 workers are stuck at various shelter camps and construction sites in the district. They have demanded that they should be allowed to submit hard copies of applications to the police station concerned. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said the online process was initiated to avoid crowding at police stations or tehsil offices. “We have started helplines. Also, we shall have kiosks at police stations,” he said.  Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Swapna Gore told TOI, “People had gathered at Haveli and Pune city tehsil offices after visiting district collector’s office. After we explained them the procedure in details, they went back.” (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hundreds-find-online-process-very-tedious/articleshow/75512840.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Hosps can’t ask for Covid-19 test before treating anyone’||Bhubaneswar: Hospitals cannot insist on Covid-19 test to provide services to patients or deny critical care to seriously ill people, the state health department has said after taking strong exception to reports of some private establishments resorting to this practice. The government’s order comes in the wake of allegations of the deaths of at least two patients during the lockdown after hospitals denied them treatment. “It is noticed that in many places hospitals/clinics are insisting on a Covid-19 test before providing services. This is not acceptable,” an order issued by director of health services (DHS) Bijay Mohapatra said on Friday. The DHS pointed out that some private hospitals were hesitant about providing critical services such as dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries to regular patients for fear of spread of Covid-19. The order directs hospitals to remain open and ensure that such critical services are not denied to anyone. The government also asked non-Covid hospitals to accommodate critically ill suspected Covid-19 patients until their condition stabilised and they could be moved to hospitals dedicated to treatment of coronavirus. “Non-compliance will be viewed seriously and action, including cancellation of the registration of the defaulter hospital/nursing home, will be initiated without further notice,” the DHS said. On Saturday, a petition was filed with the Odisha Human Rights Commission, alleging that a 61-year-old man, Rabindra Nayak, was denied treatment for chest pain by two hospitals in Bhubaneswar. He died on Thursday. The Orissa high court had on Wednesday ordered a probe into the death of another man, Sayad Abdul Hasan, in Cuttack district on April 10 after he was allegedly denied dialysis by a private hospital in Cuttack the same day because he did not have a Covid-19 test certificate. The government’s move evoked a mixed reaction among doctors and hospital administrators. Ghanashyam Biswas, a Bhubaneswar-based oncologist, said there had to be a balance between providing emergency services and safeguarding hospital staff. “For emergency care, doctors have to take a risk but with precautions. For elective procedures, however, especially where chances of blood spillage is more, Covid-19 tests should be done. Such procedures may lead to more complications in (undetected) Covid-19 patients, besides putting the entire team of doctors and paramedics at risk,” he said. Premananda Pattnaik, head of surgical gastroenterology in SUM hospital Bhubaneswar, said, “We are coming across a lot of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. In these patients, if we do surgery without Covid-19 test, the entire OT staff and doctors will get infected. They will then subsequently transmit the infection to other patients. It will just accelerate transmission in the community, which should be avoided.” “Covid-19 test should be made as routine as a blood test before any surgery for benefit of healthcare workers, doctors and patients. But emergency service must not be denied to any patient,” he added. Sudhir M Diggikar, chief operating officer of Apollo Hospitals, said, “We are following all guidelines issued by the state, the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research. We have taken measures to ensure that non-Covid emergencies are taken care of.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hosps-cant-ask-for-covid-19-test-before-treating-anyone/articleshow/75510976.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara’s Karad records 19 new patients over two days||Kolhapur: Karad taluka in Satara district, which has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot over the past week, has recorded 19 new cases in the past two days. As many as 14 new Covid-19 patients were reported on Friday alone. Five more cases were registered on Saturday morning in Karad and neighbouring areas. No new patient was reported in Satara district in the evening on Saturday. According to the official information, 64 samples had tested negative. One patient was discharged from the civil hospital in Satara after his two reports, after mandatory two weeks, had tested negative. Friday came as a shocker for the district administration. District civil surgeon Amod Gadikar said the 14 patients in Satara district had come in contact with a positive patient. All of them have been admitted to Krishna hospital in Karad. Dr Gadikar said two of 19 new patients had travel history. One of them had come from Pune while the other had travelled from Karad to Koregaon. Satara district currently has 64 Covid-19 patients. There have been two deaths in the district. The positive patients have been admitted to six hospitals spread across the district. However, Krishna hospital in Karad has the highest number of patients as villages surrounding Karad continue to have new cases. Majority of the patients in Karad have travel history and they had come either from Mumbai or Pune. The administration has sent around 500 swab tests for medical investigation and the reports are awaited. Considering the rapid spread of the pandemic, several towns and villages are observing volunteered lockdown. Administration has marked a few villages in Karad, Jawli and Patan talukas as containment zones, where no movement is allowed. Village-level committees have been asked to keep a strict vigil. Satara district has found a considerable number of patients in the past three days. Satara had 44 patients on Thursday and the number rose to 55 on Friday. On Saturday, the number reached 74. Sangli district registered two more patients on Saturday, who are from the same family. A male patient, who had come from Mumbai to Dudhebhawi village, had tested positive two days. His wife and another close contact had tested positive later. District administration has announced the containment zone in Dudhebhawi and Waghmde Nagar and has traced 25 high-risk contacts of the male patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sataras-karad-records-19-new-patients-over-two-days/articleshow/75511937.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government has no idea how to ferry workers to home states||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government seems to be clueless on how to send guest workers, who are getting restless with every passing day, back to their respective states. The labour department had collected details of guest workers in all labour camps and government-run camps about a month ago on the pretext that it was required to distribute ration to them. Through their employers and contractors, the department collected details such the names of each worker, age, mobile number, Aadhaar number, employer’s name and address and detailed permanent address of the worker. Officials said details of 4.82 lakh migrant workers staying in various camps in Tamil Nadu was available with the department. But what next? Nobody has an answer. No agency has any specific figure as to how many workers hail from each state. The government is also not sure how many labourers want to stay here. So far, no effort has been taken to categorise the available information by state to figure out how many people have to return to each state, said an official. “They need to be regrouped in camps based on the states they hail from. Without such homework, the state cannot arrange their return journey. Tamil Nadu could take a few lessons from the Telangana government in dispatching more than 1,200 workers to Jharkhand in a point-to-point special train in an early morning operation on Friday. It could become a logistical nightmare if the workers, on their own, land at Chennai railway station to catch trains plying to their native states. If by chance, a worker hailing from Uttar Pradesh catches a train to West Bengal, his miseries would worsen. At least in Chennai, he has a contractor or employer to approach for help,” said an official. Some district collectors took it upon themselves to provide state-wise break-up of guest workers’ strength. “We sent the data of workers with state-wise break-up of numbers to the government a week ago. The government never asked for it. And we have not got any response from the government so far,” said a senior official in a district. If immediate steps are not taken to address the guest workers’ concerns, there could be civil unrest, said a senior police officer. Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police L V Antony Dev Kumar, who has been appointed as nodal officer for handling guest workers’ issues, said his office has received 2,750 calls seeking help for UP people staying in TN camps to return home. He said about 1.5 lakh people from UP are working in Tamil Nadu. “So far, we have collected details of 30,000 people working in Tamil Nadu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-government-has-no-idea-how-to-ferry-workers-to-home-states/articleshow/75512417.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur not likely to witness major relaxations in lockdown phase 3||JAIPUR: As the country prepares for the third phase of lockdown, red zone Jaipur will see negligible changes or relaxations. According to officials, the lockdown guidelines will be same as it were in the last month-and-a-half. ADG (law and order) Ajal Pal Lamba said, “Since the city has been declared as a red zone, there will not be any changes when it comes to rules and guidelines. Areas under curfew will continue to have the same restrictions as before.” According to officials, the only change will be private offices will be allowed to open with 33% of the staff. A police official said, “According to the advisory by the Centre, probably the only relaxation is for private offices. Also as per the previous advisory, standalone shops and stores in residential areas will be allowed to open from Monday.” The lockdown guidelines say no person should move out of their homes unless in case of emergency or to procure essential goods and medicines. No lockdown pass will be issued to the residents of areas under curfew while travel passes are required for people of other areas. Section 144 is in place which will prohibit public gatherings of five or more people. In the red zone, OPDs and medical clinics will be allowed to operate with social distancing norms. Also, banks will be open as per guidelines. Milk, vegetable and groceries stores will also remain open. “According to the MHA advisory, the guidelines set for the red zones cannot be diluted and we can add further restrictions depending on the situation, but cannot reduce them,” added an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-not-likely-to-witness-major-relaxations-in-lockdown-phase-3/articleshow/75512843.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Teen returns from Kota, ready to crack IIT-JEE||Pune: Om Borate spent 11 months in Kota, Rajasthan, preparing for the IIT-JEE (Advanced). The exam, scheduled for March 17, was eventually postponed and he had to bide his time before he could return home due to the lockdown. The 19-year-old was among the group of students, who reached the city late on Friday evening. Now, Borate plans to use his 14-day quarantine period to concentrate on his study material and be well-prepared. “My father was so happy to see me when I arrived at the Swargate bus stand at 10.45pm on Friday. It was a relief for me too as I was really worried and stressed. I must thank the state government for bringing us home. I will rest for some time before starting to study again and chase my dream,” said Borate, who lives in Rajgurunagar. The teenager was in Kota studying at a private coaching centre and preparing for the IIT entrance exam. “The coaching institute closed down on March 15. Local authorities were helping students so there wasn’t much problem with accessing food. However, the hostel charges of Rs12,000, per month, was not waived and I was feeling the pressure. We boarded the bus for Pune on April 30 at 7.30pm. There were two drivers in the bus and proper care was taken to maintain social distancing. It was a long trip but I am relieved to be home,” he added. Between 9.30pm and 11.30pm on Friday, four Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses arrived at the Swargate depot from Kota, bringing home 74 students and eight drivers. “After their arrival, the students were screened and their details were taken. The drivers also had to go through the same process. We were assisted by the nursing staff of the PMC. None of them are showing any symptoms. However, they have to remain in home quarantine,” said Vijay Jagtap, medical officer of the Rashtriya Bal Swastha Karyakram (RBSK). Borate said during the trip from Kota to Pune, the authorities gave food twice. “I didn’t face many problems. The bus would stop for a brief period after every three hours. Food and water had been arranged for us and we got it when we started and then in Dhule. The authorities had allowed only one person from each family to come pick us up. At home, I am in a different room since I’m under quarantine. I will definitely go back to Kota once things normalize and continue with studies. This cannot stop me from achieving my objective,” Borate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teen-returns-from-kota-ready-to-crack-iit-jee/articleshow/75512841.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||500 Kannadigas stranded in Nigeria appeal to MEA, Karnataka government for safe passage home||HUBBALLI: About 500 Kannadigas, working in far-away Nigeria for the past few years, have repeatedly petitioned the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) for help to return home. President of the Kannada Sangha Charitable Foundation Nigeria (KSCFN) R Dinakar said that he had written to the Indian Embassy in Nigeria, and the Karnataka government on April 27, seeking repatriation of all workers in the country. “We have been assured by officials in the embassy of arranging our return to India once the lockdown is lifted in India. But the total number of ventilators in Nigeria is 167, and the country’s population is more than 20 crore. Covid-19 cases here are rising with each passing day – Nigeria has registered 1,932 cases so far. We have also heard that a few Indians are among the 58 in Nigeria who have succumbed to the infection,” Dinakar said. KSCFN secretary Srinivas Ram, a native of Bengaluru, echoed Dinakar’s concerns about the lack of adequate healthcare infrastructure in Nigeria. “Nearly 20% of the Kannadigas in Nigeria are senior citizens, and most of us are middle-aged. The children and the elderly need regular health check-up, but the facilities are not sufficient,” he rued. Shridhar Desai of Dharwad, employed in the power sector in Nigeria, said that the lockdown was partially lifted in Nigeria from April 27. “However, the restrictions have been lifted not because the government has contained the spread of the pandemic, but because the financial condition is worsening. Taking cognisance of the situation, governments in Italy, Japan and United Kingdom have evacuated their citizens from Nigeria,” Desai added. Sangamesh Bellad, a native of Belagavi, said that all the Kannadigas were willing to bear the expenses of returning home. “We have made contributions to both the Karnataka and Nigerian governments when natural calamities have struck. We are now appealing for help to return home safe and sound,” Bellad said. BJP member and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya said that he had written to the MEA seeking repatriation of the Kannadigas in Nigeria. “We are very concerned about Indians stranded abroad, and we will ensure their safe return. As of now, containing the pandemic is our top priority. Once the situation in India improves, we will evacuate all Indians struck in foreign countries,” said Dharwad MP and Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/500-kannadigas-stranded-in-nigeria-appeal-to-mea-ktaka-govt-for-safe-passage-home/articleshow/75510175.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 3, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor doc’s wife, son test +vefor Covid-19, district tally at 31||Bijnor: Wife and son of a local doctor, who is already in isolation, tested positive for Covid-19. This comes five days after the doctor who runs a clinic in Chandpur town of Bijnor district had tested positive following which all his contacts were quarantined and samples sent for lab testing.Notably, last month, in Bulandshahr district, an Ayurveda doctor had died of Covid-19 at a Delhi hospital. His sample was found Covid positive after his death.Two more persons tested positive on Saturday, taking the district tally to 31. Out of them, 20 have recovered after treatment. There are 11 active cases in Bijnor district. Apart from them, three Bijnor residents tested positive in Kanpur who are undergoing treatment.Bijnor's chief medical officer Vijay Yadav said, "We have received two positive reports on Saturday. One of them is son of a Chandpur-based doctor who tested positive earlier. Besides, the private doctor's wife has already tested positive four days ago. Three members of a family have got infection and are getting treatment in Meerut while 17 hotspots have been sealed."The doctor who runs a clinic in Shahchandan mohalla of Chandpur town had come in contact with a corona patient. He is said to be diabetic and asthmatic. After having symptoms, he visited another doctor and later approached health authorities who referred him to Meerut for treatment where he was diagnosed with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-docs-wife-son-test-vefor-covid-19-district-tally-at-31/articleshow/75511926.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 control room hits 100 days of relentless service in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVNANTHAPURAM: The Covid-19 control room that functions round-the-clock at the directorate of health in Thiruvananthapuram has notched up a century. Saturday marked day-100 of the control room that has been going strong with the able support of as many as 100 health workers, including doctors. Health and social justice minister K K Shylaja said the control room “has been able to effectively defend the spread of Covid-19 in the state”. Even though the first positive case of Covid-19 in the state was reported on January 30, the control room had already been set up, on January 24; the experience gained from controlling Nipah and the floods came in handy in this early intervention. The control room coordinates an array of tasks, including gathering information from those who had returned from pandemic-affected places, preparing the list of their primary and secondary contacts, providing medical aid, ensuring observation of such individuals at their homes and ensuring the availability of medical equipment and creating awareness among others. As many as 18 teams have been formed in the control room that includes a surveillance team, call-centre management team, human resources management team, training and awareness generation team, material management team, infrastructure management team, sample tracking team, media surveillance team, media management team for creating awareness, documentation team, private hospital surveillance team, transportation and ambulance management team, departmental coordination team, community-level volunteer coordination team, psychological support team, data compilation team, budget and financing team, and an expert study coordination team. The teams regularly interact through video conferences via their respective subordinate teams in all districts. All decisions are taken after compiling and analyzing the work undertaken by these 18 teams on a day-to-day basis. The analysis of the overall teamwork is conducted by a group comprising the health minister, principal secretary (health), state mission director of the national health mission, managing director of medical services corporation, director of health education, and additional directors. A 24-hour call-centre is also functioning in the control room, where the public can contact and alleviate any concerns regarding Covid-19. As many as 15,000 calls have been received at the call-centre till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-control-room-100-not-out/articleshow/75511002.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Virus weighs heavily on weddings, hits business||JAIPUR: It was a day of hectic activity. A big canopy was set up for the reception of the marriage-party. The front of the house was beautifully fitted with electric bulbs. Everyone was busy barring little Mehul. The eight-year-old girl was waiting for her mother, who promised to bring her a new white dress for her uncle’s wedding. But little did she know at the time what God had in store. A sudden flow of tears welled up in her eyes and she blinked them away when her mother handed over the dress and said the function has been postponed because of self-isolation measures courtesy coronavirus. Mehul had no clue what coronavirus pandemic actually means, which spoiled her week-long preparations and the function. Her uncle Kishan and Shalini were to go through the nuptials at a banquet hall in Mansaovar on April 25 one day before the day the lockdown started. “You can realise cancelling such an event means emotional and financial losses,” said the groom. Covid-19 has cast a gloom on hundreds of such families across the wedding-crazy Rajasthan. According to Babulal Chopra, owner of a garden in Mansarovar, the virus affected his business to the tune of Rs 50 lakh. Chopra has three gardens at the same locality. “Not only me, the worst affected are the florists, caterers and event management companies, like the DJs,” he rued. Like thousands of other families, Aarti Agarwal had to cancel her wedding and made it a point to limit group gatherings when they hold the function in future. “The world has shifted to social distancing as a way of life,” said Aarti, who was supposed to get married on April 17 at Victoria Garden in Mansarovar. Acknowledging the emotions of numerous vendors involving in the wedding season, Aarti said it is also a major employment generator. “Each such event has scores of vendors and service personnel involved, from catering and decor to photography and makeup. And they don’t know when things will improve.” The state’s Hotel and Restaurant Association president Kuldeep Singh is alleged to have said that the estimated losses is between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 1,500 crore as tourism and the wedding industry are taking a beating. The virus has had a knock-on effect on caterers. Most people have postponed their plans and the few, who are going ahead, have made it a smaller event. “The industry is seeing a big blip in terms of revenue,” alleges the owner of Jai Ambey Caterers & Tent House in Mansarovar. “We are helping the parties make the best out of the situation in these times of adversity, but ever since the virus entered their mental culture, it has become omnipresent, leaving us in the lurch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-weighs-heavily-on-weddings-hits-business/articleshow/75512848.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Meerut||Nine test positive in Saharanpur, one in Meerut||Meerut: At least nine tested positive in Saharanpur, four in Bulandshahr, two each in Bijnor, Hapur and Amroha and one each in Meerut and Baghpat late on Friday night and Saturday. The fresh cases took the tally to 198 in Saharanpur (including 12 admitted in Lucknow), 117 in Meerut (including one admitted in Kanpur), 17 in Baghpat, 34 in Bijnor (including three admitted in Kanpur), 35 in Hapur, 29 in Amroha and 56 in Bulandshahr.Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “A nurse, resident of Kaseru Khera area, who has been deployed at the isolation ward of Meerut district hospital, has tested positive. Following which at least 12 of her contacts have been quarantined.”Dr BS Sodhi, chief medical officer (CMO), Saharanpur, said, “As many as nine people tested positive here on Saturday. All of them have been admitted.”Aditi Singh, district magistrate, Hapur, said, “One person has tested positive in the district, taking the tally to 35. The patient was traced to Dotai area and quarantined in a hospital. So far, nine people have recovered, thus the active cases dropped to 26.”Dr KN Tiwari, CMO, Bulandshahr, said, “As many as four patients, all from Bugarsi hotspot area, tested positive in Bulandshahr on Saturday. They are undergoing treatment.”Bijnor CMO Vijay Yadav said, “We received two positive reports on Saturday. Out of two positive cases, one is the son of a Chandpur-based doctor who had tested positive earlier, while his wife tested positive four days ago, while another patient is their neighbour. They are undergoing treatment in Meerut. Meanwhile, 17 hotspots were sealed in the district, so far.”Dr Digvijay Singh, Covid-19 nodal officer, Baghpat, said, “One more tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 17 here. Meanwhile, 14 people have already been discharged, and thus, the active cases have come down to three.”Amroha CMO Dr Megh Singh confirmed two more positive cases in Bachraun area of the district, which took the tally to 29 here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nine-test-positive-in-saharanpur-one-in-meerut/articleshow/75511923.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telugus among 125 detained in Malaysia||VISAKHAPATNAM: More than 125 Indian nationals from different states, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, were detained by Malaysian authorities on Friday afternoon. These Indians could not return home as restrictions were imposed and flights were cancelled post March 17. Most of their visas have expired. They have been so far living in accommodations provided by the Indian high commission in collaboration with NGOs. According to sources in Kuala Lumpur, more than 125 stranded Indians were detained by immigration officials on Friday afternoon. Although a few of them were released in the early hours of Saturday, a few of them are still locked-up. Speaking to STOI, a few who were detained said they were treated very badly. Meeta (name changed), one of the detainees who returned on Saturday morning, said a police van arrived on Friday at 1.30 pm and took all the stranded people accommodated in Malayan mansion. “We were not even allowed to use the washrooms in the place we were locked up. Our passports, visa and other documents were taken by them and we were there till 4 am. Our documents were given back and we returned to Malayan mansion,” said Meeta, who belongs to Chittoor. She added, “While we were sent back after being treated badly, the others from our group are still detained. We are unable to contact them and we are worried as there is no provision for food and water.” A Sunny and his father, who are from Nellore, have been stuck in Malaysia since March 16. Their tourist visa expired on March 26. Since flights were cancelled, he has been staying at his friend’s house. “I am worried now as any time the immigration officials can check and detain us. My father is aged and unwell. I hope we reach India soon.” Venkat Medapati, advisor to government of Andhra Pradesh NRT affairs, services and investments and president of AP Non-Resident Telugu Society said, “We have requested the external affairs ministry to provide assistance to the stranded people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/immigration-detains-indians-in-malaysia/articleshow/75511935.cms||Reshma Jain
May 3, 2020||Surat||Record 41 patients in Surat go home||Surat: As many as 41 people who recovered from Covid-19 infection were discharged from Surat hospitals, even as three people succumbed and 17 others tested positive for the deadly virus on Saturday. With this Surat’s death toll rose to 28, while coronavirus infection tally reached 638.The city witnessed the highest single day discharge of Covid-19 patients on Saturday. According to health officials, 25 patients were discharged from the Covid care centre, 15 from the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and one from the Seventh Day Adventist Mission hospital. Jayantilal Phirkiwala, 62, a resident of Sandhadiyawad in Gopipura, who was suffering from comorbid condition like diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, succumbed to the infection on late on Friday night. The deceased was admitted to NCH on April 20 and had tested positive the next day.Another patient, Nasrin Shaikh, 50, a resident of Anwarnagar in Limbayat, passed away at the NCH also on Friday night. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Gulam Mohammed, 75, a resident of Reshamwad in Salabatpura, was the third casualty on Saturday. The deceased, who was suffering from blood pressure, was admitted to NCH on Friday morning and breathed his last on Saturday morning.Meanwhile, Limbayat zone remained a cause of concern for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) as number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise. On Saturday, nine fresh cases were reported from the zone, which now alone accounts for 250 cases of the total 638 cases in the city.“Highest number of Covid-19 cases from Limbayat followed by Varachha (A) zone,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, SMC commissioner.“Earlier, we had planned to change zone category from red to orange and then orange to green if cases were not reported for 14 days. But now we have extended the 14-day criteria to 21 days,” Pani explained.“We urge people not to allow children below 10 years, elders above 65 years and pregnant women to go out during lockdown period. No shops will be allowed to open except essentials goods during the third phase of lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/record-41-patients-in-surat-go-home/articleshow/75511011.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: 10,000 MSRTC buses to ferry stranded citizens||PUNE: Movement of people stranded between districts is expected to begin in the next four days with more than 10,000 buses ready to ferry them, official sources stated. The Pune rail division is also getting ready to ensure smooth movement of ‘Shramik’ special trains once they start from the division. "People from other states stranded in Maharashtra are being transported by special trains. When it comes to transport between districts, a fleet of 10,000 buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) have been kept on standby. Additionally, we might use around 10,000 private buses to transport people. The district administration is registering people who are stranded and we expect to start the services in the next four days," state transport minister Anil Parab said. He said all students stuck in Rajasthan's Kota have been brought back. "They have been screened and until now, no one has shown any symptoms of the virus. The students and the drivers have been told to remain in home quarantine and will be monitored," Parab added. Apart from thousands of migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra, there are many from within the state who have been stuck in other districts/cities. "Many of them are students who are in big cities, like Pune, for studies. There are many staying in private hostels and facing problems in getting food. NGOs are arranging food for them," Rajendra Dhorde of the Dhorde Patil Charitable Trust said. Rahul Bhosle, a student from Aurangabad who stays in a private hostel on Sinhagad Road, said, "I just want to go home. Though many are helping, our families are worried. I request the government to make arrangements fast so that we can leave for our homes.” A source in the Pune rail division told TOI that though they have not received any intimation from the main office or the district administration about running of trains for migrant workers, they are getting ready. "The Shramik special trains have started from many places. We expect such trains to start from Pune division soon. The state government is coordinating with the railway board," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10000-msrtc-buses-to-ferry-stranded-citizens/articleshow/75512849.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 3, 2020||Meerut||Inmate killed, 3 others hurtin clash inside Baghpat jail||Meerut: Rishipal Singh, a 45-year-old jail inmate lodged at Bagpat jail, was killed in a clash between two groups following an argument inside jail premises on Saturday afternoon. "DIG (jail) Love Kumar has been sent to the spot and further action will be taken based on the findings in his report," Anand Kumar, director general, prison administration and reform services said.According to prison officials, Rishipal, resident of Khekda in Baghpat, was lodged following an attempt to murder case against him earlier this year. Main accused Babloo, also resident of Baghpat, is serving life sentence in a 16-year-old murder case against him.Apart from the deceased, three other inmates - Amit, Rohit and Manish - have sustained injuries of varying degrees.Senior officials in the district, including superintendent of police and district magistrate, have rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation on ground.According to prison officials, it all started on Saturday afternoon when deceased Rishipal complained about another inmate Babloo who was allegedly trying to dig out a mobile charger from ground. Babloo claimed it was a plastic shaving razor. "An argument ensued over it and later senior prison officials intervened following which the matter was contained," Baghpat jail officials said.However, hours later the dispute later reignited and six jail inmates, including Babloo, attacked Rishipal and two others lodged in a different barrack at 3pm. According to jail officials, Babloo and his aides used a small iron rod with sharp end and two steel spoons as a weapon to attack Rishipal and others."A rusted iron rod was procured from a soak pit which was being constructed inside the premises and was used as murder weapon along with spoons," DG (Prison) Anand Kumar said.Fatally injured Rishipal was immediately taken to a district hospital in Baghpat where he died around 5pm on Saturday. "Other inmates who sustained injuries are under medical observation and their condition is stable," jail officials said.UP Don Munna Bajrangi was gunned down in the same jail on July 9, 2018, following which senior officials had claimed to have stepped up surveillance and security provisions inside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/inmate-killed-3-others-hurtin-clash-inside-baghpat-jail/articleshow/75511945.cms||Piyush Rai
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mammoth task: 20 lakh workers register to leave Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: It is going to be a logistical nightmare for the Gujarat government to manage the transportation of migrant workers who want to go back to their native states. A whopping 20 lakh migrant workers, including 11,000 workers from Nepal, have registered themselves to go back to their respective native places. The state government earlier had estimated that about 10 lakh migrant workers will have to be transported back home. After the Union ministry of home affairs issued an order permitting states to help workers return to their native places, the state government appointed a team of 16 IAS and IPS officers to oversee the process. However, within a short span, over 20 lakh workers have already registered themselves in various districts of the state and the number is expected to go higher. It is becoming increasingly difficult to transport all migrant workers back to their native places by train. So the Centre has advised states to allow maximum number of people to travel back by road. In the meantime, the state government has been making efforts to persuade labourers to stay back. A key government source directly engaged in the task of ensuring smooth movement of migrant workers back to their native places, as well as bringing back Gujaratis stranded in several parts of the country, confirmed that the number of workers who have applied to go back to their native places has crossed 20 lakh. “This number is likely to increase by a few more lakhs,” the official said. “However, all the labourers are not likely to return to their native places as industries and other commercial activities will resume in a short time.” The major outward rush of labourers is from industrial pockets of Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Bharuch and towns of South Gujarat. The state government has adopted the strategy of sending migrant workers from neighbouring states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan by road on buses and other vehicles. Trains are being arranged for workers of north Indian and northeast states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mammoth-task-20l-workers-register-to-leave-gujarat/articleshow/75512509.cms||Kapil Dave
May 3, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor farmers see red as survey finds 'zero loss' on ground||Bijnor: Farmers in Bijnor are seething with anger over the report of the survey conducted by the revenue department of crop damage and loss following the heavy rainfall on Sunday and Monday in the district. The survey has found "zero loss" at the ground level, taking farmers by surprise. The survey was conducted at the instructions of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Heavy rain and hailstorm accompanied with gusty winds had lashed the district earller this week.On Sunday, the agriculture department had estimated at least 15% crop loss in Bijnor.Farmers claimed that with harvesting on, they had suffered huge losses. Sugarcane sowing was also affected. After receiving the report, district agriculture officer Avdhesh Kumar Mishra said, "Revenue department has carried out a survey for the same and found zero losses here in Bijnor district. As of now, 20% of total wheat crop is either standing or lying in the fields for threshing. Heavy rain and gusty winds have no adverse effect on wheat yield. However, it will impact on the quality of wheat. Wheat grains may turn black and to some extent the shine of the grains will get reduced."Talking with TOI, Rajendra Singh, national president of the Azad Kisan Union, termed the survey report an eyewash and said, "No revenue staff or official contacted farmers to know their losses. Farmers have been sidelined by the authorities. Government has conducted the survey in an arbitrary way. We reject this survey. As of now, 30% to 40% of crop is standing in the fields. The incessant rainfall for two days has badly affected wheat crop. Grains have turned black. Food Corporation Of India will not buy it. Where will farmers go to sell their produce. If there is no loss to wheat crop, then the administration should support farmers to sell their entire produce in the market, where buyers check grain quality."Bijnor experienced 29.6mm of rainfall on Sunday alone Wheat has been cultivated across 1.60 lakh hectares in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-farmers-see-red-as-survey-finds-zero-loss-on-ground/articleshow/75511942.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||65-yr-old man ends life in Vaishali Nagar||Jaipur: A 65-year-old man committed suicide in Vaishali Nagar police station area on Friday night. The police have recovered a suicide note. The deceased was found hanging from the fan in his room by his family members. Further investigation is underway. The deceased has been identified as Bhawani Dutt Sharma, a retired railway employee, who stayed in Chand Bihari Nagar in Vaishali Nagar area. Anil Kumar Jaimani, SHO, Vaishali Nagar police station, said, “the elderly man committed suicide when his family was at home. His daughter and wife were in other rooms when he hanged himself from the fan. He had retired from the railways and in the suicide note, he has not given any reason for suicide but simply stated that no one be blamed for his death.” The deceased was surviving on his pension. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/65-yr-old-man-ends-life-in-vaishali-nagar/articleshow/75512852.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Advisory to protect staff transporting fish readied||Visakhapatnam: With the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases among personnel involved in transportation of essential goods across the country, Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT) has prepared an advisory for transportation of fish. The advisory contains measures to be taken, dos and don’ts to be followed by transportation personnel and the steps to be taken and facilities to be provided by the state governments or district officials to stop the spread of the virus in the community though fish transportation. R Raghu Prakash, principal scientist and scientist-in-charge of Visakhapatnam CIFT Research Centre said, “During the course of fish delivery, the drivers may take the vehicles through crowded or Covid zones and inadvertently get exposed to the virus. The advisory recommends that all drivers should undergo mandatory health check and tests before and after a trip. Drivers need to ensure personal hygiene and practice respiratory hygiene. They should also maintain distance (at least one metre (three feet) distance between people during loading and unloading of fish, wash and disinfect vehicles before loading and after unloading the fish. Drivers should seek medical care in case they have fever, cough and or have difficulty in breathing.” The advisory also recommends steps such as mandatory health check-up and testing of transport staff for Covid-19 before and after their trip and provide them with health or fitness certificate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/advisory-to-protect-staff-transporting-fish-readied/articleshow/75511946.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Couples press pause on grand wedding plans, most opt to postpone indefinitely||PUNE: Meeta Ramnani, a research writer living in Pimpri, and London-based chartered accountant Hitesh Godhwani were to get married on April 16. Instead, they wore their wedding attire and made a TikTok video from their separate homes. The coronavirus pandemic left several would-be couples like Meeta and Hitesh with no choice but to postpone their wedding celebrations. “We planned a big fat wedding in Jodhpur. My fiance was supposed to fly down from the UK about two weeks before the wedding but when the lockdown was announced on April 14, we realized that there was no way we could go ahead with our wedding plans,” said Ramnani. Soni Singh, a marketing professional from Aundh, whose wedding was scheduled for April 28 with Aman Sharma, who works for his family’s textile business in Chandigarh, has been forced to postpone their wedding too.  “We were going to get married in Delhi and we had sent invites to over 1,000 people. On April 14, when the lockdown was extended till May 3, we informed everyone on the guest list that the wedding had been postponed indefinitely,” she said. “We had booked everything from the entertainment to the catering, venue and decor. We did not get a refund from them, but the advance can be redeemed whenever we have the wedding. I don’t know if we will be able to have a big wedding later in the year or whether only a limited number of people will be allowed to attend the functions,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couples-press-pause-on-grand-wedding-plans-most-opt-to-postpone-indefinitely/articleshow/75512851.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||3 more Covid cases in Solapur||Kolhapur: Solapur city reported three more cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 114 in the district. District administration is waiting for 299 reports, for which throat swab samples have been sent. District collector Milind Shambharkar said that the three Covid-19 patients— all of them male—are from Solapur city areas which include Gawli Vasti and police headquarters. Shambharkar said that all the three patients have shown symptoms of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). District administration received a total of 32 reports on Saturday of which 29 were negative. Shambarkar said that 825 patients are currently in institutional quarantine. Not a single suspected or confirmed patient has been discharged so far. Throat swab sample of 19 patients from Gherdi village in Sangola taluka have tested negative. All of them had come into close contact with a Covid-19 patient. Similarly, as many as 64 throat swab samples of the people, who had come into contact with a Covid-19 patient from Penur village in Mohol taluka also tested negative. This includes 48 people from Pandharpur and 16 from Mohol. However, all of them have been kept in institutional quarantine. Throat swab sample of 78 people from Chapalgaon in Akkalkot taluka tested negative, Shambharkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-more-covid-cases-in-solapur/articleshow/75511943.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Long road back home||CHENNAI: Protests erupted in many labour camps across Chennai’s outskirts on Saturday as guest workers got to know that a train carrying more than 1,200 workers had left Telangana for Jharkhand early on Friday morning. Guest workers took to streets and staged protests at Ayanambakkam, Pallavaram and Velachery, demanding for special trains to take them back to their respective states. More than 1,000 people gathered at Cowl Bazaar. About 500 people who assembled at Velachery decided to march towards Chennai Central. Police had a tough time convincing them that adequate arrangements were being made to send every guest worker to his or her native state. There were also instances of construction workers demanding wages for the days they had worked. A group of construction labourers staged protest at a building site at Ayanambakkam, saying they have not received wages from their employer for a month. Inquiries conducted by TOI at various camps revealed that not a single guest worker is inclined to remain in Tamil Nadu till normalcy returns. People from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha said they are not keen on travelling by train and were ready to even go on a long journey by bus. Some have been working here for more than a decade. Many said they may consider coming back in search of work once the fear of Covid-19 fades. When states such as Bihar, Telangana, Kerala and Odisha were making efforts to get their people from the states working in various parts of the country, why is nothing moving in Tamil Nadu, they asked. Despite working in Tamil Nadu for months, and in some cases years, most people do not have much cash on hand as they have been sending it to their families every month. The situation could be worse if they return home. But as of now, many said their priority was to escape Chennai, which has become a hotspot for Covid-19. Tankadhar Behera, from Nuapada district in Odisha said workers were getting calls from their relatives back home. “Life is getting worse in Chennai with every passing day. I will search for job in my hometown. If I don’t get one, I may come back to Chennai or go to Bengaluru or Mumbai,” he said. Mohammed Imam Hansari, a native of Jharkhand, who has been working as a mason in Chennai for more than 10 years, said, “I am the only breadwinner in my family. I have to go now. I will return to Chennai later to earn bread and butter for my family”. Fortunate are the ones who have some cash on hand. People from tribal regions like Mandla in Madhya Pradesh, who are working in cities across India, can look forward to a royal reception when they return to their villages, where owning a bicycle is still considered a luxury, said a contractor. If someone manages to save a year’s salary, he can buy about five acres of agricultural land there. There is high demand for such bridegrooms, a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-long-road-back-home/articleshow/75512429.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||‘No sub-division of cities into red, green and orange zones’||Jaipur: A day after the Centre designated districts of the country as red, orange and green, the state health department has clarified that there will be no sub-divisions at the state level and each city is to be taken as a single unit for classifying them into red, orange or green zones as per the MHA guidelines. The rules of lockdown will be applicable to the entire city depending upon the classification of the district done by the Centre. At the same time, the state government might give some relaxations to areas that are outside the municipal limits of a city. “Each district is to be taken as a single unit as per MHA guidelines,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. Singh added that there may be some relaxations in areas outside the cities’ municipal limits that have not seen any positive cases in the past 21 days. “Such areas can be lowered one notch, i.e., from red to orange or from orange to green. The state government is strictly following the MHA guidelines,” he added. Jaipur is among the eight districts designated as red zones. The situation in the Pink City is not at all encouraging as the Centre had recently pointed out that it is ‘serious’. The city has reported cases not only from the Walled City areas, but from 50 areas in Jaipur city and Jaipur rural. The health department has clarified that the entire city will remain in red zone irrespective of the quantum of cases reported in different areas. Even if an area has not reported a single case, it will come under the red zone. The eight districts that have been designated in red zone in state include Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Nagaur, Banswara, and Jhalawar. The Centre has instructed state to take necessary action in the areas as per the containment action plan including stringent perimeter control, establishing clear entry and exit points, no movement except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population, house-to-house surveillance, testing and contact tracing and clinical management of all confirmed cases. In buffer zones created outside containment zones, surveillance of cases through monitoring of influenza-like illness cases in health facilities has to be taken up, Centre said, emphasising that state should delineate containment zones and buffer zones in red and orange zone districts and notify the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-sub-division-of-cities-into-red-green-and-orange-zones/articleshow/75512854.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Police play parents’ role to solemnise marriage of doc with IT professional||Pune: The city police on Saturday performed the role of parents to solemnise the marriage of a young IT professional and a woman doctor on the request of their respective families who were stuck in Dehradun and Nagpur due to the lockdown. An assistant police inspector and his wife performed `kanyadaan’ of the bride, while the young couple’s parents, the groom’s brother, an army major in Ambala, and the bride’s sister in Nepal witnessed the ceremony on video call. The police made all arrangements, including a two-hour booking of the Amanora club house and a priest for performing the rituals. The couple's fathers are both retired army colonels. The groom, Aditya Singh Bisht (27), told TOI, "My marriage was scheduled to be held at Dehradun but we could not travel because of the lockdown. I am happy that my marriage could be solemnised in Pune on the fixed date on May 2 even though our parents, relatives and friends could not attend the wedding." The marriage was performed in the presence of deputy commissioner of police Suhas Bawache, inspector Humraj Kumbhar, assistant inspectors Manoj Patil and Prasad Lonare. While Patil and his wife performed the ‘kanyadaan’, Lonare made arrangements for the club house and priest. Assistant inspector Prasad Lonare said, "The groom’s father had called the city police control room and sought help for performing his son’s marriage. We then made all the arrangements.” Amanora township vice-president Sunil Tarte said, "We made the club house available for the marriage free of cost. We gifted the couple a box of sanitisers and served them lunch."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-play-parents-role-to-solemnise-marriage-of-doc-with-it-professional/articleshow/75512853.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||‘Screening of persons connected with essential services must’||Jaipur: Nodal officer in-charge of Jaipur for prevention of Covid-19, Ajitabh Sharma, on Saturday said field samples of about 580 people were collected in past two days from six different locations in the city. Of the total, five were found to be positive and 125 people who have come in contact with them have been quarantined.He said quality screening must be done of people connected with essential services like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk, dairy, pharmaceuticals, gas and vegetable carts. He also said the number of vegetable-cart pullers will be regulated.“The district administration must provide masks and sanitisers to them apart from creating awareness about precautions. The sale of paan, bidi, cigarettes, gutkha and opening of tea stalls remain prohibited in the city,” he said. He also said people coming from other states to Jaipur district by road should be screened and must be admitted to hospital immediately if any person has Covid-19 symptoms. “Some officers should be deployed in the border districts and check posts should be established for screening of people coming by rail,” he said. According to CMHO-I Narottam Sharma, in last two days, superspreaders were tested at six locations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/screening-of-persons-connected-with-essential-services-must/articleshow/75512856.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Online classes for special kids give educators a tough time||CHENNAI: Taking online classes for children with special needs, particularly those who will be appearing for Class X and XII boards through open schooling, has become a challenge. The children are used to receiving personal one-on-one guidance from their educators. But since the online classes began two weeks ago, attending an hour’s class a day has also become an ordeal. Special educators said though they have taught children and parents to access the online edu portals, many are still struggling with it and getting even half the number of students to attend classes is proving hard. “This is the first time they are learning this way and it’s also our first time teaching this way,” said Sujatha Sriram, a special educator and counsellor. “Since we need to ensure that they are thorough in their lessons, we are trying to get creative with the learning process so they slowly realise the seriousness,” she said. Sujata is teaching around 20 children with learning and intellectual disabilities studying in Classes X and XII. They were supposed to write their boards through the National Institute of Open Schooling around the end of March but the tests were postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The students attend classes on Google Duo, Zoom and other apps, and are given assignments online as well. “I see children playing, talking to someone nearby, totally distracted while we take classes through videoconferencing. It was a task to make them sit through the class attentively,” she said. At the Vidya Sagar school for special children, around 24 students are appearing for the boards. The teachers had started their classes earlier this week, and they too are facing setbacks, like getting full attendance. “At least two or three students are absent citing poor network connectivity. We earlier thought of getting all of them on a single video call for lessons. But now we only engage with three at a time for better response,” said Kalpana Rao, principal of the school. The school’s teachers are also guiding students from financially weak sections, who don’t have access to smart devices, over phone calls. The teachers insist that children be accompanied by parents during classes so they concentrate better, but not all seem to be following suit. Educators also said they are getting complaints of children becoming restless. “It is not ideal to hold classes at fixed timings during the lockdown. It will add stress and affect their mental health,” said Dr B S Virudhagirinathan, a neuropsychologist. He added that schools must instead focus on teaching core areas that need improvement and impart learning informally. “Sort out basic problems like helping them with spellings and reading instead of subjects since the aim is for them to write without an error. Let them play, read, identify their strengths, and work accordingly. Compelling them to study will do no good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-classes-for-spl-kids-give-educators-a-tough-time/articleshow/75512431.cms||Aditi R
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid-19 warriors to get tributes from sky and sea||CHENNAI: The move by Navy and Coast Guard to line up illuminated ships along the shore and honk foghorns in honour of Covid-19 warriors on Sunday may turn counter-productive, as it may send people flocking to the shore to watch it at a time when officials are struggling to keep people indoors. Indian Navy is bringing two ships including INS Sahyadri while the Coast Guard will also have its ships lined up along the shore after dusk. The ships will be illuminated and will use the foghorn, usually used as a signal to other ships when visibility is low or when sailing into a harbour. The plan has left police, who are already struggling to manage the non-cooperative crowd, worried. A police officer said, “We are hoping people will not queue up to watch these ships duue to the Covid outbreak.” There are about 188 temporary check points on the roads leading to the beach. Many side roads and streets are also blocked. There are about four checkpoints on Rajaji Salai and more than five checkpoints on Kamarajar Salai. People coming out for merry making will be dealt with severely, the officer said. The announcement by chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat has come as a surprise to many services personnel but they are following the orders. Worried that the display of ships may cause the public to head to the beach, defence authorities haven’t divulged the spot along the coast where the ships will assemble. Air force and coast guard helicopters will shower flower petals over two major government hospitals including the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital earlier in the day. “The helicopters will fly by showering flowers over the hospital closer to 10am. The helicopters flew over the city as part of rehearsals on Saturday. A retired navy officer said he has not seen military aircraft and ships being used to honour civilians. “This is the first time,” he said. A few wondered whether it was wise when the funds could have been used for something more productive. However, those in the services appreciated the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-warriors-to-get-tributes-from-sky-and-sea/articleshow/75512427.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||City registers 12 new Covid-19 cases, Krishna Lanka tops the list with six||Vijayawada: After a lull for a day, 12 new positive coronavirus (Covid-19) cases were reported in the city, taking the total number to 258. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and health department officials had felt relief when no cases were reported on Friday, but the sudden spike in numbers has worried them. Krishna Lanka again stood on top with six cases — one each in Balaji Nagar, Nunna, Kothapeta, and three cases from Gunadala. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has directed the officials to focus on containment measures in Karmika Nagar, Krishna Lanka, Ajith Singh Nagar, Vidhyadharapuram, and Kudhus Nagar. He also reviewed the geographical quarantine method implemented in high-risk areas in the city. “We have completely restricted the movement of vehicles and people in red zones as a part of our geographical quarantine method. We have also noticed that most cases were from Krishna Lanka, Machavaram, and other densely populated areas. People there ignored social distancing and it has resulted in the rapid spread of Covid-19. One person become a super-carrier and transmitted the virus to around 40 persons in his neighbourhood,” Imtiaz said. “We are happy that the number of cases has reduced thanks to the efforts by the officials. We are confident that the number of cases will come down further and red zones will be converted into orange zones soon,” he added. Meanwhile, Krishna district officials announced that they have conducted around 12,000 tests in the district till Saturday in which 8,000 of them were done using rapid test kits. As many as 10,289 patients have tested negative so far and reports of around 1,566 patients are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-registers-12-new-covid-19-cases-krishna-lanka-tops-the-list-with-six/articleshow/75511037.cms||Venu Lanka
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Childless Surat couple kidnaps six-month-old boy, arrested||Vadodara: A childless couple from Surat was arrested for allegedly kidnapping their neighbours six-month-old boy by the Vadodara detection of crime branch (DCB) on Saturday. The couple — Amit Pal and his wife Anita — was on their way home in Uttar Pradesh when it was nabbed near Golden Chowkdi on national highway outside Vadodara city. Cops said that the baby was handed over to its parents. On Saturday morning, the police spotted the couple along with the baby near Golden Chowkdi. “They had left Surat in a truck and got down at Golden Chowkdi. They were waiting for some transport to reach their hometown in UP,” Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime) told TOI. When asked why the couple kidnapped the baby, Jadeja said, “Anita had lost her baby twice and the couple was childless. So they kidnapped their neighbour’s baby.” According to the police, Amit works as a labourer in a company in Sachin GIDC and stays with his wife Anita in Surat. On Friday afternoon, Anita went to her neighbour Anshu Kevat’s house and saw that she was sleeping. She allegedly picked up Anshu’s six-month-old baby sleeping nearby and left. When Anshu woke up, she found that her baby boy was missing following which she began looking for him. Anshu’s sister told her that Anita had taken her baby. Anita’s house was locked and despite searching her everywhere, Anshu and her husband couldn’t locate her following which a police complaint was filed in Surat. “After an alert by the Surat police our team kept watch on the labourers arriving from Surat and passing through the highway,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/childless-surat-couple-kidnaps-six-month-old-boy-arrested/articleshow/75512057.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Meerut||No active Covid-19 case in Shamli,dist to focus on random sampling||Meerut: Surrounded by districts in the vulnerable "red zone" which have been steadily reporting positive cases of Covid-19, Shamli district has been the only silver lining in Meerut zone. According to Shamli district magistrate Jasjeet Kaur, there are no active cases of Covid-19 in the district now after 18 were reported positive of it. Out of the 18, second report of 14 were initially tested negative followed by three and finally the second report of the last person tested negative on Friday bringing the tally of active cases to zero."As a precautionary measure, people under quarantine whose two reports comes negative are kept for few more days to ensure the symptoms doesn't reappear," Shamli DM Kaur said.According to senior officials, district has now come under orange zone from red but the restrictions would continue to be in place to ensure the virus does not spread in any form. The local administration which was earlier busy in contact mapping of Covid-19 positive cases would now begin random sampling in several areas."Earlier our focus was on contact tracing of people found positive. Now, we would begin random sampling in areas bordering districts of Meerut and Saharanpur. We will be focusing on sampling of fruit, vegetable and milk vendors who provide services in the hotspot areas and also drivers of trucks ferrying essential commodities," DM Kaur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-active-covid-19-case-in-shamlidist-to-focus-on-random-sampling/articleshow/75511948.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Parents heave a sigh of relief as 40 students return from Kota||Kolhapur: Many parents could not hold back their tears when they saw their children alighting from the two buses that brought them back from Kota, where some 40-odd students from Kolhapur district were stuck due to the lockdown, on Saturday morning. The state government had deployed buses to bring the students back from Kota—the hub of coaching institutes preparing aspirants for various engineering and medical examinations— after complaints poured in from parents that their wards were facing a lot of hardships due to the lockdown. One of the students said that the buses came from Dhule and dropped the students bound for Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara to Pune. The buses left from Pune to the respective destinations on Friday midnight. As many as nine girls and 31 boys from Kolhapur district were taking preparations for various examinations in Kota. The students were immediately taken to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital for check up. An official said that if required, the students would be kept in institutional quarantine. By evening, most students were advised home-quarantine for two weeks. The students are currently lodged at Maharashtra High School in the Shivaji Peth area of Kolhapur. Chandrakant Chougule, a resident of Shahupuri whose son returned from Kota, told TOI, “My son was taking preparations for the medical entrance examination in Kota since the last one year. We got to know that the students there are facing several hardships. The messes were shut and the students were not allowed to go out of their homes.” “The coaching centre had assured us that they will provide food to our kids. However, the provision for food was not regular. The shops too were closed, due to which many students had to go hungry for days,” said Chougule. Both the students and their parents are now worried about the exams, which, though, has been postponed but the students may have to go back to sit for the papers. “Most students have chosen Kota as their examination centre. Many parents from other states have requested the examination authorities to allow the students to write their papers at the local or the centres nearest to their hometown so that they don’t have to go to Kota again. We will make a similar appeal soon,” said Chougule. Meanwhile, MP Sanjay Mandlik has shot a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday demanding that the students preparing for various competitive exams in Delhi be brought back. He said that around 1,500 students were stuck at various places in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/parents-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-40-students-return-from-kota/articleshow/75511952.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||6 more test positive in Bhavnagar||Rajkot: Six people more tested Covid positive in Bhavnagar on Sunday. A 49-year-old woman, four men aged 33, 52, 25, 57 years along with a 13-year-old boy tested positive. With these, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 56. Meanwhile, one patient each in Bhavnagar and Surendrangar got discharged on Sunday. A 31-year-old man resident of Macchhiwad in Ghogha got discharged. However, Binyaminbhai Sheikh has also been booked for lockdown violation before he was admitted in the hospital. Altogether 23 people have been discharged so far, while five people have died of Covid. The only Covid positive patient of Than taluka of Surendrangar district, Gogabhai Bavaliya, 52, also got discharged from the hospital on Saturday. He is a driver who got infected while returning from Andhra Pradesh via Maharashtra. He gave lift to a person from Aurangabad in his journey, a crime for which he too has been booked by Botad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/6-more-test-positive-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75511038.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Anguished migrants get measure of relief||AHMEDABAD: Dharoj Yadav’s son was born on March 23, a day after the Janata Curfew on March 22. However, the baby was not keeping well and Dharoj, a painter, had used up all his savings to treat his son. On Saturday, when the first Shramik Express left for Agra from Ahmedabad, Dharoj’s friends had to help him to buy railway tickets. “The pandemic has shattered me personally, and today I am leaving for my native, Baliya in Uttar Pradesh. My sole hope is that my extended family in my ancestral village will help me out.” The train was flagged off on Saturday by Gujarat’s minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja. “After a week of his birth, my son had jaundice and was kept in a paediatric ICU. I lost all my savings in his treatment and today I had to borrow money from friends on promise that I will send the money, even if I don’t return,” said Dharoj. He said his father works in the village as a labourer and he will join him in the fields if his paint work does not click in UP. He said he had been scared of losing his son to Covid-19, which was spreading in Ahmedabad. Atul Verma, along with his seven roommates, left for Agra. Verma, who stays in Ambedkarnagar, said that he received his salary from a denim factory, but he and his colleagues were not sure if their jobs were secured or not. “We aren’t sure of the factory being able to pay next month’s salary without running, as the lockdown continues. So, we decided to return to our native. Wheat has been harvested at our native, and it is yet to be sold. At home, the family will at least get to eat, but here we’d have to go hungry,” Verma said. Abhishek Singh, his father and brother were working in a private dairy in Dholka. He said the dairy had been closed since lockdown, but the owner had made arrangements for their food and stay. “But when we heard that all migrants were leaving, we too decided to leave. My brother was to get married on April 10, but due to the lockdown it was cancelled. We will fix another date and return when things get normal, and if the owner wants us back,” Singh said. Hira Ali, a construction labourer said, “There is no work here and survival was becoming an issue without any income. It is better to die at home near family than die here alone. The cases are increasing, and we have inquired and found there were few cases in our district. My family talked to our sarpanch about our return, and he had said he will get them checked properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/train-for-migrants-leaves-for-up/articleshow/75512507.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 3, 2020||Meerut||UP police constable, aide, arrested for bootlegging||MEERUT: Police raided a rented accommodation in Haqiqat Nagar in Sadar area of Saharanpur on Saturday and apprehended two persons, including a police constable deployed in the police control room, for allegedly selling illicit liquor smuggled from Punjab. Following a tip-off that liquor was being served and sold at a particular house in Sadar Bazar area, police raided it. Apart from seizing liquor, a car was also impounded. "A head operator in the wireless department shares a rented house with his friend in Haqiqat Nagar. Police had been receiving complaints that illicit liquor was being served and sold from the house. A raid was conducted and two persons were arrested," said Dinesh Kumar, SSP, Saharanpur. West UP districts like Shamli and Saharanpur share a porous border with Haryana from where illicit liquor made in Haryana and Punjab is smuggled to places in UP and Bihar. Though the police surveillance at the border is at an all-time high, traffickers have found other routes to smuggle liquor, the SSP said. "Now, the traffickers have started using the river route after they dried up. Some are also concealing the consignment with essential commodities being transported from one place to other during lockdown," SSP Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-constable-aide-arrested-for-bootlegging/articleshow/75511950.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Two arrested for selling liquor||Kolhapur: The local crime branch of the city police has arrested two people for allegedly selling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from a beer bar to people at a hotel located near Murgud in Kagal taluka. Police have also booked the beer bar owner for violating the norms but are yet to arrest him. The arrested accused have been identified as Rahul Pandurang Wandkar and Vivek Pandurang Wandkar. Both are residents of Murgud. They were produced before the local court and the court sent them to two-day police custody. Tanaji Sawant, the police inspector in-charge of local crime branch, said, “We took action after we got the information from the sources. The duo was found taking liquor from the back door of the beer bar. The front locks were sealed by the excise officials since the lockdown began and they started selling from a nearby hotel. We have seized IMFL worth Rs 15,000 from them.” “The excise officials have sent the proposal to suspend the license of the owner of the beer bar and we will soon initiate action against him,” he said. “We have invoked section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, section 51(B) of National Disaster Management Act, section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Act, 2020 and section 65 (E) of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-arrested-for-selling-liquor/articleshow/75511961.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kochi||Ktym identifying guest workers keen to go home||Kottayam: The district administration has assigned officials to visit the labour camps and identify guest labourers who are keen to return to their native. The operations are coordinated by a team led by the tahsildar and includes officials of panchayat, revenue and labour departments. The aim is to complete the procedure by Sunday. The information collected in a prescribed form include the place where the labourer is staying at present, home address and the place where he wants to go. Only those who are ready to bear the travel expenses are being sent home. However, the information of all labourers are being collected. The health department has also launched operations to examine the workers and issue them medical certificates. Labourers wishing to know about arrangements made for returning to their native can contact 9497713705. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ktym-identifying-guest-workers-keen-to-go-home/articleshow/75511061.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Glitch-ridden hearings irk lawyers who want court closed instead||CHENNAI: Facing a choice between the total closure of the Madras high court or truncated operation with 100% video-conferencing proceedings due to the Covid-19 lockdown, a large section of lawyers have risen in support of the closure. The court’s proposal to allow limited benches to function through video-conferencing only has not gone down well with many who say the judiciary’s infrastructure is not equipped to adopt the fully-digital functioning. Instead of doling out ‘half-justice’, it would be better to treat the lost days as extended summer holidays and try to make up for them after the Covid-19 scare is put to rest, the lawyers said. “Glitches such as internet speed and power disruptions will disrupt proceedings for lawyers in semi-urban and rural areas. The problem will be acute for subordinate courts where hard copies of documents and material objects have to be marked and examined,” said senior advocate and president of Tamil Nadu Advocates Association (TNAA) S Prabakaran. “Two or three hearings I participated in took a lot of time to commence. One hearing which was supposed to happen at 11am could only be commenced at 2.30pm,” said senior advocate E Om Prakash. With a proper system, not less than 50 cases can be heard every day, he added. Advocate G Sankaran said the primary cause for delay is that the judges do not have access to hard copies of the pleadings. Either they must be provided a separate monitor to access the affidavits and other case documents or hard copies of the same must be made available, he suggested. “There is no acknowledgment for the filings made. In many cases, there is no response from the registry on the status of the filings, leaving advocates in the dark about the hearing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/glitch-ridden-hearings-irk-lawyers-who-want-court-closed-instead/articleshow/75512437.cms||Suresh Kumar
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown, a trailer ahead of complete liquor ban in Andhra Pradesh?||VIJAYAWADA: Excise officials have seized 2,153 litres of liquor and 1,506 litres of beer since March 22, the day bars and alcohol shops were closed in the state, ahead of the lockdown. While on the one hand instances of liquor shops being looted have increased, in some cases in connivance with excise officials who have been eventually caught and suspended, on the other hand there has been a spike in arrack brewing. Excise officials have destroyed 11.64 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash in last 40 days apart from destroying 47,152 litres of illegally distilled liquor. The numbers have increased two folds when compared to previous month and the corresponding month of the previous year. Even the price of arrack has increased given the demand. Although crippled with staff crunch, as more than 700 personnel from excise enforcement wing have been deployed for Covid-19 containment duties, the officials have managed to book double the number of cases in the lockdown period. The enforcement director Vinit Brijlal said enforcement staff have shown exemplary efforts in curbing arrack menace. Brijlal further said the enforcement work during the lockdown has been like a pilot project for them before implementing complete liquor ban in the days to come. He said they have got an idea about the challenges that they are going to face in the future and it is a learning experience for them to devise strategies to implement complete liquor ban in phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-a-trailer-ahead-of-complete-liquor-ban-in-state/articleshow/75511964.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Crackdown by Malay authorities on undocumented migrants hurts Indians||Mangaluru: About 5,000 Indians in Malaysia are facing the heat of a crackdown. The authorities on Friday launched a drive to round-up undocumented migrants as part of their efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus. Hundreds of migrants and refugees were detained in Kuala Lumpur, which has about 2 million registered foreign workers. But the authorities there suspect the presence of some more without proper documents. At 9.30am on Friday, the authorities of Jabatan Imigresen Malaysia (the immigration department of Malaysia) conducted door-to-door search of residential blocks in Kuala Lumpur, said Esther Padma, an aide to a local Malaysian official. “They asked all residents for identification. Those who could not produce original documents or whose documents were suspected were taken in their nightdress,” she said. Those detained were initially taken to the seventh floor of the residential block, and later to the ground floor — all chained in groups of 10. Authorities allegedly berated women who requested to change their dress. The authorities did not even allow the detainees to take their medicine bag or copy of documents and moved to KDN Complex in Jalan Duta. There they were segregated in four groups — those with documents, with papers, refugees, and those without papers. Esther said detainees later were unchained and kept in a big hall. They could use the toilet once during the daytime and once after sunset. They were not provided medical assistance despite requests and were given food and water after the fasting period. For those with documents and for those whose employers furnished documents, the authorities grouped them to green line 1, released them and transported them back to City One around 1am on Saturday. After verification, another 55 passengers were released at 5am. Most of the passengers are stranded transit passengers stuck there after the lockdown in India. Most of them are from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, she said. Two students from KMC (Mangaluru) — Mahima Gupta and Naveen Mallya — are among those stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/crackdown-by-malay-authorities-on-undocumented-migrants-hurts-indians/articleshow/75510214.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||‘Keep reminding yourself that this is just a passing phase’||Veteran psychiatrist, Dr Sudhir Bhave, and members of the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) are busy attending numerous calls from citizens seeking solutions for stress, psychiatric problems, depression, anxiety and anger. In an interview with TOI, Dr Bhave, gave a ‘ten year perspective’ to overcome the sense of loss due to the lockdown. Excerpts ...Q. What are the major psychiatric issues that people are facing?A. Being at home and mostly without work, many gray areas in one’s personality have triggered conflicts in relationships. Domestic violence, screen space addiction and physical problems have increased due to the mental stress.Q. How can one know that a particular physical problem is due to stress? A. We must first learn to identify stress. Initially, one finds it difficult to fall and remain asleep. Secondly, diet reduces. Unusual and angry reaction to petty matters is another sign. You can’t concentrate because you struggle to understand things. All these are early signs of stress. Later, you experience head ache, body ache, fever, nervous cough etc. Identifying stress at this level can make it easy for you to come out of it.Q. How can we overcome stress?A. I always share a five-point formula with my patients. Adequate sleep, regular exercise, balanced diet, staying away from addictions and meditation for at least some time help a lot to keep one stress free. Inadequate knowledge or misinformation is a major source of stress. Social media is a huge source of misinformation. Restrict the use of mobile phones. Instead, read books. Don’t watch too much news. Indulge in constructive activities or hobbies. Interact with family members. Share your thoughts with someone very close to you. Q. Many issues are primarily due to financial losses. Your thoughts?A. Accepting a financial loss is the first step towards overcoming it. I suggest a ‘ten year’ formula. These losses are just for two-three months. They cannot destroy your entire life. Keep reminding yourself that the present situation is temporary and it’s a passing phase. We have to think about the next ten years. Everybody is experiencing losses, but I’m sure the ten-year perspective will definitely instill a fighting spirit in most of us.Q. What types of mental issues are we going to face post-lockdown?A. The covid fear will be there. This fear can lead to several issues. Will parents allow their kids to attend schools normally? What will happen to a school if one student tests positive? Will we use public transport like before? Fear of a crowd may also arise. Addiction to mobile and Internet will increase dangerously. We need a proper exit-policy to avoid post-lockdown issues. Q. Many people don’t follow the lockdown rules. A. It’s a psychology of many people to break rules. During lockdown, we see many youths on bikes for no reason. Some of them just don’t wear masks just to show that they are macho. Non-cooperation with the administration, hiding information deliberately just to create trouble are some other issues. Proper knowledge of the situation is a must. It may come through newspapers, media, learned people around you or through those you have faith in. The administration is taking all measures to give the right information, including our helpline. Q. What kind of issues do you listen to on the helpline?A. Earlier, people used to ask about Covid-19 and its technicalities. Nowadays, stress levels have gone up. They ask for solutions mainly pertaining to family, financial and health issues. Recently, a senior citizen asked me if Covid-19 is a curse of the almighty. Instilling positivity in the minds of people is a major challenge during lockdown. This challenge will be more after the lockdown is relaxed. Q. Your tips for the next two weeks?A. Educate yourself. Learn facts about coronavirus. Follow authentic sources and not social media or WhatsApp university. Follow what the government and authorities are telling you. Don’t break laws just because you feel it heroic to do so. Spend your time in recreation. Speak to your family members, friends and try to renew relationships. Share your views with them. Share anything that comes to mind. Sharing can reduce anxiety. Don’t hesitate to visit a psychiatrist. Finally, keep reminding yourself — this phase is going to end and think about the next ten years of joy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/keep-reminding-yourself-that-this-is-just-a-passing-phase/articleshow/75511979.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Police commandant dies of cardiac arrest day after retirement||Chennai: A police commandant died of cardiac arrest in Avadi on Friday, barely 24 hours after he retired from service. A Subramanian was the commandant of the Avadi II battalion and retired from service on April 30, Thursday. On Friday, after spending the day watching TV in his house in Kollumedu near Avadi tank factory, Subramanian went to bed, said police. He complained of severe chest pain around 11.30pm. “His family members informed their family doctor and rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared him as dead on arrival. “His kin brought his body to their house and informed friends and relatives. Due to the Covid outbreak, the funeral was held on Saturday with limited family members and some personnel he worked close with,” said an officer. Some of the police personnel attached to the II battalion recollected their former commandant to be a hard-working and sincere. An inspector with the battalion said, “He was one of the nice officers and enjoyed playing badminton.” A sub-inspector, also attached to the battalion, said, “He attended the morning parade held between 6am and 8am every single day during his service.” Saying Subramanian always insisted on the importance of the parade, another inspector said, “The commandant always insisted all the Tamil Nadu special battalion staff to consciously perform the parade and exercises with due diligence.” There are about 900 policemen and policewomen in the battalion. Subramanian joined the police department in 1987 as a sub-inspector. He worked as deputy commandant of the Avadi II Battalion and was promoted as commandant of the unit — a post he held for two years until retirement. A battalion staff said, “Commandant (Subramanian) was visibly stressed and could not get his mind over the fact that he was retiring.” Subramanian is survived by wife Selvi, and daughters Chandini and Niranjani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-commandant-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-day-after-retirement/articleshow/75512434.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Indian Navy to salute nCov warriors||Visakhapatnam: The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) will join the armed forces across the country on Sunday to show solidarity with frontline workers in the fight against coronavirus. A host of events will be organised by units under the ENC to pay tributes to all ‘corona warriors’, including doctors, nurses, other health workers, hygiene and sanitation staff and police personnel who have been working to contain the spread of the pandemic. On Sunday morning, naval officer-in-charge (Andhra Pradesh) will visit the Government TB and Chest Hospital and Gitam Hospital, which are the designated Covid hospitals in Visakhapatnam and felicitate the medical fraternity for their efforts. This will be followed by a naval helicopter from INS Dega showering flower petals on hospitals treating Covid patients in Visakhapatnam. Two Indian Navy ships will also be at anchorage off RK Beach and illuminated from 7:30 pm to midnight on Sunday. They will also salute frontline workers through traditional naval ceremonials. In addition, the ships will fire green flares, signifying ENC’s good wishes for the health of citizens. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/indian-navy-to-salute-ncov-warriors/articleshow/75511978.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||MSEDCL worker dies after attack by duo||Kolhapur: A 42-year-old MSEDCL worker, who was allegedly beaten up by two suspects after he disconnected a cable that was illegally connected to an electric pole in the Dhalgaon village of Kavate Mahankal taluka, died in a hospital. The police are on the lookout for the suspects and believe that they cannot escape given the lockdown-related barricades and nakabandi. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Kavate Mahankal police station. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Ramesh Dagade, was beaten up by the suspects on April 28. Dagade was seriously injured and was admitted to the government hospital, Sangli, where he succumbed to his injuries the next day. Appasaheb Koli, police inspector in-charge of Kavate Mahankal police station, said, “Dagade worked with the MSEDCL as a contract worker. On April 27, amid the lockdown, a transformer from Dhalgaon section was damaged due to power fluctuations and Dagade was sent to check out the matter. On April 28, when Dagade was checking the cables, he found a cable illegally attached with the pole that was taking power to a nearby house. Suspecting a case of power theft, Dagade removed the wire.” This enraged the person who had attached the wire and he started arguing with Dagade. The argument escalated and two persons, including the person who had attached wire to pole, allegedly beat Dagade with sticks. They later fled the spot and residents called the nearby hospital. “We immediately rushed to the spot and took Dagade to the government hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on April 29. We have booked the suspects under several sections of IPC including section 302 (murder). We have launched a search operation for them and will soon track them down. We are gathering information about the duo and their background. Police are keeping watch on their houses expecting that they may return. They cannot run away due to the lockdown-related barricading and nakabandi,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/msedcl-worker-dies-after-attack-by-duo/articleshow/75511987.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Living with fear: Nurse on Covid-19 duty narrates his experience||CHENNAI: U Manikandan, 38, a senior nurse, entered ward 215 in Tower 2 building of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai with growing trepidation. Silence hung thick in the air, so did fear. In the donning room, he slowly put on the scrub suit, apron, shoe leggings, the air-tight metal cover over his mouth, PPE suit, cap, goggles, N95 mask and two pairs of gloves. Clutching the case sheet tight, he gingerly stepped into the isolation ward where Chennai’s first Covid-19 patient, a 44-year-old man from Kancheepuram, had been admitted the previous night. He had arrived in India from Muscat on February 28 and was admitted on March 7 when he tested positive. The previous night, Manikandan had watched the channels flash the news of the first Covid-19 case in the city. He could hardly sleep that night. His nursing superintendent had called asking him to start work 6.45am the following day. “I have treated suspected Yellow Fever and Nipah cases. Never did I imagine that my wife and I would be nursing Covid-19 patients,” said Manikandan, second-in-charge of the coronavirus ward. For him, the 50-odd patients whom he nursed back to health and continues to do so, and the sole woman he watched die, will remain an experience he cannot easily define. He checked the patient for symptoms, gave him food, medicines and changed his soiled sheets. “The patient was anxious. Every 10 minutes, he would keep asking me if he was alright. He would say he had fever and that he had difficulty breathing. He would say he was terrified of death,” said Manikandan, sounding distraught and tired. The patient was treated for depression and eventually discharged after he was cured. Manikandan nursed several Covid-19 patients, later housed in the third floor of the Rheumatology block. After working for 14 days in a row, he is quarantined for nine days in the hospital quarters when his swab is tested. He is soon back at the Covid-19 ward. “During work hours, from 7am to 1pm, we don’t drink a drop of water so that we don’t use the toilet and don’t waste our PPE suits,” said Manikandan. Separated from his family and scared of getting infected and infecting his two-year-old daughter, six-year-old son and his old mother, Manikandan and his wife, also a nurse, go through work and the mandatory quarantine with fear in their hearts and a prayer on their lips. “I talk to my children. My voice breaks as I talk to them. But my wife can’t control herself. She breaks down crying,” said Manikandan. On April 6, as Manikandan was finishing his duty, a 64-year-old woman was admitted to the Covid-19 ward with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). The following day, when he returned to work, he was informed she had died an hour-and-a-half after admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/living-with-fear-nurse-on-covid-duty-narrates-his-experience/articleshow/75512443.cms||Jaya Menon
May 3, 2020||Kozhikode||11 more test negative in Malappuram||Malappuram: Higher education minister K T Jaleel has appealed people to strictly follow social distancing guidelines while distributing Zakat during Ramzan, amid the threat of Covid-19 spread. Talking to media here, the minister said that people should avoid frequent house visits for the distribution or collection of Zakat, to prevent further spread of virus to more parts of the district. Meanwhile, 72 more persons were brought under observation in the district on Saturday. With this the total number of person who are under observation in district has become 1,610. 28 persons are under treatment at different hospitals including government medical college hospital, Manjeri. 1,532 persons are under observation in their homes and 50 persons are under observation in Covid care centres. 11 more persons tested negative for novel coronavirus infection on Saturday in the district. The results of 91 more persons are awaited. District medical officer K Sakeena said that the health condition of two persons who tested positive for virus infection and under treatment at Manjeri medical college is satisfactory. Meanwhile, the district collector has granted special permission for works related to the drought prevention activities, pre-monsoon cleaning activities, sanitation works, flood relief works, public works under annual plan of grama panchayats and borewell works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/11-more-test-negative-in-malappuram/articleshow/75511103.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||2 soldiers of Kumaon Regiment killed in LoC firing||Pithoragarh: Two soldiers of the Kumaon Regiment, hailing from Pithoragarh district, were killed in firing across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri sector on Friday. Army officials alerted the families of the victims — Havildar Gokaran Singh (45) of Napad village in Munsyari and Naik Shankar Singh Mahra (30) of Nali village in Gangolihat — about the incident on Saturday. Army sources said that the bodies would reach Bareilly by chopper at 11am on Sunday from where they would be taken to Pithoragarh either by road or air. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said that a decision on the soldiers’ funerals would be taken later. While Gokaran Singh is survived by his wife and two children, Mahra has left behind his wife and a son. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday expressed grief at the death of the two soldiers in firing by Pakistani troops along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. He said that he took pride in their supreme sacrifice and prayed for strength to their families to bear the loss. He also assured them of all help from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-soldiers-of-kumaon-regiment-killed-in-loc-firing/articleshow/75511074.cms||Prem Punetha
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||14 S S Nagar residents test negative||Udhagamandalam: Test results of the 14 samples collected from residents of S S Nagar in Gudalur town have turned negative for Covid-19, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said on Saturday. Death of a 35-year old woman hailing from S S Nagar and a cluster of four people exhibiting symptom of fever had prompted health department officials to monitor the area. The woman had died of heart attack, officials said.The district administration has deputed a team comprising a medical officer, district malaria officer, three health supervisors, five health inspectors, 20 mosquito eradication workers and 40 sanitary workers.The team, split into four, will conduct door-to-door inspection to locate container-breeding mosquitoes. “Residents of S S Nagar are requested to discard old things scattered around their houses,” said Divya. A second team will inspect reservoirs and water tanks in S S Nagar and conduct chlorination. The Gudalur municipality has been instructed to supply water to the residents every day. A third team will be involved in eradication of mosquitoes. Another team comprising 12 nurses, 22 health volunteers and angawadi staff will detect people with symptoms of cold, fever and cough.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/14-s-s-nagar-residents-test-negative/articleshow/75512444.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Recovery rate in district improves||Vijayawada: With six Covid-19 patients discharged from Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College (PSMC) in the city after complete recovery on Friday night, the Krishna district administration and state government are pleased with the recovery rate. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz said that around nine patients will be discharged on Sunday and another 30 patients will be discharged by Tuesday. Superintendent of PSMC Dr BN Chandar said that majority of patients undergoing treatment at their hospital are stable and recovering fast. “Around 70% of Covid-19 patients admitted in our hospital are below the age of 40 years and most of them are asymptomatic. We are focusing on improving the immunity of the patients. They are being given a healthy diet and the recovery process is faster than expected,” he said. Imtiaz urged all persons with Covid-19 symptoms to come forward for testing and cooperate with the district authorities to prevent the spread of the virus. He hoped that 100 patients will recover by May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/recovery-rate-in-district-improves/articleshow/75511076.cms||Venu Lanka
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Passengers bussed in wait for second train, NGO steps in||Ahmedabad: Desperate migrant workers in 50-odd buses had lined up at Sabarmati railway station even before the railway authorities could allocate a special train for Agra. The railways, scheduled a second train for Agra at about 1.30am on Sunday. Seeing that there were parked buses and no food arrangements made, an NGO, Wildlife Rescue Team, immediately made arrangement for food for the migrants waiting to leave from Ahmedabad. Officials said that 10.30pm on Saturday, even Ahmedabad Railway authorities not aware of the special train. Arvind Parmar, a volunteer of the NGO, said, “Looking at stranded passengers we inquired if they were served food. Realising that no arrangement was made by the administration we immediately got the food made and served passengers at about 11pm.” A railway officer said that as per the instruction it was the duty of the state government to make arrangement for food. The railway would only provide food in long distance trains. Collector K K Nirala said that the administration had ferried people from various part of the district to Sabarmati and the train will leave at about one in the night. The train will leave for Agra. We are following the orders of the state government and are ensuring passenger movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/passengers-bussed-in-wait-for-second-train-ngo-steps-in/articleshow/75512518.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||33 of 62 new coronavirus cases in state from Rayalaseema districts||Tirupati: Rayalaseema districts continued to report a spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Out of the 62 new cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours, Rayalaseema districts alone accounted for 33 coronavirus cases. In Kurnool district, 25 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the overall number of cases in the district to 436. While 10 Covid-19-related deaths have been reported in the district so far, 360 patients are still undergoing treatment at various Covid hospitals across the district. Out of the 25 new coronavirus cases reported in the district, 18 cases are from Kurnool city alone, while seven cases were reported at Nandyal and one new case each were reported at Atmakur and Adoni towns. Meanwhile, officials of the district administration continued to remain tight-lipped whether outgoing Kurnool municipal corporation commissioner S Ravindra Babu tested positive or negative for the virus. Four new Covid-19 cases each were reported in the orange zone districts of Kadapa and Anantapur on Saturday. Stepping up the offensive against lawbreakers, Anantapur police booked 1,450 cases under different sections of the IPC on Saturday. Police also slapped 3,407 cases against 6,998 traders for violating the lockdown guidelines in the district. The district police wing, which also slapped 1.07 lakh cases under the Motor Vehicles Act so far, levied penalties to the tune of Rs 4.63 crore during the lockdown. As many as 2,604 vehicles were seized. Following the continuous spike in Covid-19 cases, Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian directed the district police wing and other officials to ensure a curfew-like lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/33-of-62-new-coronavirus-cases-in-state-from-rayalaseema-districts/articleshow/75511105.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Youth peddles ganja posing as food delivery executive, arrested||CHENNAI: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for peddling ganja in the city. The youth, who worked with a food delivery aggregator, used his uniform and the delivery box and went about the city selling the contraband in the guise of delivering food. A Gunasekaran of Perungudi, a BCom graduate, was arrested by the Mylapore police from Vannandurai in Besant Nagar based on a tip about ganja sold by a food delivery agent. “Gunasekaran was working for a food delivery app for more than a year. He had less work during the lockdown and decided to peddle ganja in the delivery box,” a police officer said. Delivery agents are not often stopped by police for being out on the roads during the lockdown. As many as 20 sachets of the contraband were seized from him and he was handed over to the Foreshore Estate police who arrested him for charges under The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-peddles-ganja-posing-as-food-delivery-exec-arrested/articleshow/75512451.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh woman escapes quarantine||VIJAYAWADA: Police in Machilipatnam town are on the alert after a woman escaped from a quarantine centre on Saturday. The woman has been missing since Friday afternoon but officials noticed her disappearance on Saturday. According to Chilakalapudi inspector M Venkata Narayana, the woman is from Tenali in Guntur district and visited Machilipatnam to meet relatives. On April 28, ward volunteers informed the police that an outsider was staying in the town. Though the woman did not display symptoms of Covid-19, she was sent to a quarantine centre as a safety precaution. After lunch on Friday, she escaped from the centre. Her disappearance was only noticed the next day. As news of her escape from quarantine circulated in the town, police launched a search operation. Venkata Narayana said there is no need for people to panic as the woman had not displayed any symptoms of Covid-19. He said a case has been registered against the woman for lockdown violations and escaping from quarantine centre without permission from concerned officials. Special teams have been deployed to trace her and bring back her to the centre, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-gives-slip-to-officials-escapes-from-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75511996.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Police provides details of migrant workers staying at shelter homes||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur police on Saturday gathered details about the migrant workers staying at shelter homes in the district and forwarded the information to the district collectorate.This comes after the state government’s preparation to allow migrant workers, students and tourists from other states stuck in Maharashtra, to return home. Prashant Amrutkar, the deputy superintendent of police, Karveer division said, “The instructions were passed on to the police on duty at shelter homes to collect all the details about the people staying there. The details include a person’s work address and residence address. These details have been shared with the respective nodal officers attached with the district collectorate.”“At present, we do not have any role regarding the migrant workers and their transportation. We have increased surveillance on major roads in the district and highways as there is a possibility of illegal transport after May 3,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-provides-details-of-migrant-workers-staying-at-shelter-homes/articleshow/75511997.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||3 booked for providing fake info||Kolhapur: The Shivajinagar police have booked three people for allegedly cheating the government by getting inter-state travel passes to Tamil Nadu by providing fake information about their residence. Ishwar Omase, PI in-charge of Shivajinagar police station, said, “The three people are residents of Ichalkaranji. They wanted to move to Rajasthan for some personal reasons but were unable to do so due to lockdown. However, they managed to get an online travel pass by filling the details on online application pretending that they are residents of Tamil Nadu. When they started their journey, we stopped them at a checkpost. They flashed their pass stating that they are going to Tamil Nadu. When we checked the pass carefully and enquired about the details of their stay in Ichalkaranji, they confessed to that they had pretended to be residents of Tamil Nadu and actually wanted to go to Rajasthan.”The trio have been booked under various sections of the IPC including section 420 (cheating) , 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) and section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-booked-for-providing-fake-info/articleshow/75512001.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC quarantines 141 from Sangam Nagar||Nagpur: On failing to get correct information during contact tracing, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has quarantined 141 residents of Sangam Nagar, Uppalwadi, under Ashi Nagar Zone in North Nagpur, from where a 44-year-old cancer patient had tested positive on April 26.They all are close contacts and neighbours of the patient. After identifying them, NMC Ashi Nagar Zone team led by zonal medical officer Dipankar quarantined them at police flat scheme in Pachpaoli on May 1.Now, the number of people quarantined in this case has touched 202. Cancer patient’s wife and her sister were quarantined the same day. Their reports are awaited.Bhivgade told TOI, “Sangam Nagar and adjoining areas have been notified as containment zone. All the neighbours our team spoke to said they did not meet the person. Our investigation revealed that few from the area had met the person after his return home from hospital. So, we had to quarantine 141 persons. Further course of action will be decided after receiving their reports,” he said.The person, an auto driver, had undergone surgery on April 14 at a private cancer hospital on Kamptee road and was discharged on April 22. On April 24, he came to the hospital for a check-up citing cough and other problems. The hospital engaged a private laboratory and collected samples. The reports came positive on April 26 night from Mumbai-based laboratory.The NMC then quarantined 59 doctors and staff in the hospital itself. Their reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-quarantines-141-from-sangam-nagar/articleshow/75511998.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Flight takes off from city airport after a month carrying perishables to Sharjah||Coimbatore: For the first time since the lockdown began on March 24, a flight carrying cargo abroad departed from the city airport on Saturday. It was a passenger flight that was used to fly the cargo - mainly vegetables and flowers - to Sharjah. The flight, operated by Spice Jet, took off from the city around 10pm. The vegetables and fruits had arrived at the cargo hold from Kerala and the district, which has always been a leading exporter of perishables to the Middle East.Officials with the cargo department confirmed that Spice Jet had asked them to be prepared to process and load around 16 tonnes of perishable cargo into one of their flights. While a few domestic cargo flights have been taking off carrying medical equipment, it was the first international cargo consignment since lockdown began.“The cargo began arriving after 2pm, following which we packed it, processed it and got it ready for loading,” said a senior air cargo manager.The flight, meanwhile, landed in the city from Bengaluru. After loading the cargo, it took off to Sharjah, from where it is expected to fly directly back to Bengaluru. “A passenger flight can usually hold around eight to 10 tonnes of cargo in its belly. However, this time we loaded 16 tonnes, as we made use of a large portion of seating areas too since passengers are not travelling,” said another official.Officials hinted that the cargo might have been booked by multiple IATA (International Air Transport Association) approved agents. “One agent or one distributor is unlikely to have arranged for 16 tonnes of cargo.” In a bid to maintain physical distancing and safety at the cargo hold, only seven to eight staff were allowed to work, that too wearing gloves and masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flight-takes-off-from-city-airport-after-a-month-carrying-perishables-to-sharjah/articleshow/75512446.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||50-year-old man killed in jumbo attack, wife escapes unhurt||Coimbatore: A wild elephant trampled a 50-year-old farmer to death in the Thadagam reserve forest here on Saturday morning, when he, along with his wife, went to his farmland. His wife, however, managed to escape unhurt.A forester identified the deceased as S Ayyasamy, of No 24 Veerapandi near Thadagam. According to him, the victim’s farmland was located just 250 metres away from the reserve forest.“On Saturday morning, Ayyasamy and his wife Mallika, 48, went to their agricultural field, where they spotted the elephant. Immediately, they tried to escape. However, the elephant gave Ayyasamy a chase and trampled him to death. His wife managed to escape,” the forester said.He said the incident took place around 7.30am. “When we reached the spot by 8.30am, the elephant had moved into the reserve forest.”A team lead by Coimbatore forest range officer Siva subsequently sent the body to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. The body was handed over to his family members in the afternoon.The forest department has handed over an initial solatium of Rs 50,000 to the family members of the deceased. The remaining Rs 3.5 lakh would be disbursed to them after the completion of all formalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/50-year-old-man-killed-in-jumbo-attack-wife-escapes-unhurt/articleshow/75512450.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Satranjipura duo returns from Mum, one tests +ve||Nagpur: Despite ban on inter-district travel, two residents of Satranjipura, city’s first Covid-19 hotspot, managed to travel 840km from Mumbai to city by changing around 10 trucks. After a couple of days of their return, one of the two men tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the question is whether he was infected in the state’s capital or during the journey or in institutional quarantine here.The man, a 55-year-old firewood trader, is undergoing treatment at IGGMCH. The man told TOI that he had gone to Mumbai on March 10 and was in good health there. He claimed that he felt healthy even on arrival in the city on April 27 evening. “According to doctors at IGGMCH, both my companion and me were fine. I was quarantined at Wathoda the same night. The samples were collected at VNIT on April 29 and I was informed of being positive on April 30,” he said. The man suspects he was infected in the institutional quarantine as all of them had to use the same lift there. “Despite waiting in a long queue, I sample could not be collected at Wathoda on April 28 due to shortage of kits. I started having fever after giving samples on April 29. The person who was with me at Mumbai and travelled all along with me is negative,” he said.The other man, 42, runs a two-wheeler repairing garage at Chhoti Masjid area in Satranjipura. The man said he left for Mumbai on March 19 and reached there the next day. “My plan was to offer prayers at Haji Ali and purchase clothes for my wife and three children for Ramzan. I had return ticket for March 24 but got stuck due to lockdown. I moved to my companion’s godown at Mustafa Bazaar. “We decided to return to the city after my wife and children told me on phone about the situation in Satranjipura,” he said.The person added, “Despite my companion having trouble with his one leg, we walked around 100km on the first day. Later, we started taking lifts in trucks. Just before Aurangabad, we managed to get on a truck coming to Butibori. From there we got another truck from till Hotel Gomti (near old Pardi naka in the city),” he said.The duo had reportedly called couple of members of Masjid Committee to seek guidance on whether they should go home. “We were picked up by police who took us to IGGMCH. Then, we were quarantined at Wathoda,” he said.The man further said, “At VNIT, where we were taken for giving samples, I could see my wife and children as my entire family and relatives of 50 persons were quarantined there on April 27 night,” he said.-------------------------------------------------A LONG JOURNEY* March 10 | 55-year-old man went to Mustafa Bazaar, Mumbai, to trade in firewood * March 19 | 42-year-old man went to Mumbai to visit Haji Ali and purchase clothes* March 24 | Stuck due to lockdown, 42-year-old met the other person at Mustafa Bazaar* April 24 | Two left from Mumbai on foot early morning and later took lift from around 10 trucks * April 27 | Two reached city in the evening and were picked up by police and quarantined at Wathoda* April 28 | Their samples could not be taken at Wathoda* April 29 | Samples collected at VNIT * April 30 | 55-year-old tested positive, admitted at IGGMCH||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-duo-returns-from-mum-one-tests-ve/articleshow/75512000.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Indians stuck abroad live in fear, seek quick evacuation||CHENNAI: Pleas for evacuation from students, tourists, families and others stranded abroad have grown louder after the Centre extended nation-wide shutdown till May 17. Those stuck in Malaysia are the worst hit as authorities have begun raiding hotels and apartment complexes to weed out those staying in the country on expired visas. In a raid on Friday, more than 1,500 people, a majority of whom were Indians, were arrested as they did not havea valid visa or return flight tickets. Though almost all have been released, ongoing raids have instilled fear in the hearts of many others. With most of the stranded dependent on locals, relatives and fellow Indian nationals settled there, they have formed a WhatAapp group to help one another get cash, food and medicines. With the raids looming in the minds of many, people began sending out frantic messages in such groups advising everyone to keep their passport and return flight tickets on person even when stepping out to buy food or have a cup of tea. “I am scared to step out as Malaysian authorities have started to raid and arrest those without valid visa. I came here for work, but the project has ended. I was supposed to return on March 19. Now, I don’t have a job, my visa has expired and I am using my savings to pay for food and accommodation now,” said Manigandan Govindaraj of Chennai. Six students who arrived at Malaysia for an internship on March 13 are stuck in a flat offered by the institute though their period of stay had come to an end. “We’re fast running out of money,” said Aishwarya S, one of the students. And accessing money is not easy as Malaysia has imposed a shutdown and going out looking for an ATM is tough. Unlike many others, Naveen of Hosur is fortunate to have a job. But, his mother, who was visiting him to check on his pregnant wife, was supposed to return to India on March 18. That plan fel flat when flights were cancelled. His mother has now fallen ill. “Medical expenses have touched 20,000 Ringgit and accessing medicines is also difficult,” Naveen said. Many from Tamil Nadu are also stuck in Indonesia, UK and countries in the Middle East. They complained that the Indian missions there have not been of much help. Most embassies stick to the standard answer, “Will be updated soon”. People from other states such as Baibhav Kumar of Patna, who lost his father back home while he was stuck in Kuala Lumpur, reached out respective states and even the Union ministry. But to no avail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/indians-stuck-abroad-live-in-fear-seek-quick-evacuation/articleshow/75512458.cms||V Ayyappan
May 3, 2020||Goa||Sattari farmers facing irrigation water paucity||Keri: Horticulturists from Pissurlem and Honda are hit by irrigation water shortage. This challenge, which is an annual feature, is a result of past haphazard mining activities that have damaged the groundwater level. “Every year, during the summer, the irrigation water crisis peaks leaving horticulturists badly affected. Recently I brought this issue to the notice of the chief minister, who directed the water resources department to release water from the mining pits,” Hanumant Parab, a social activist working towards the revival of agriculture and horticulture in Pissurlem, told TOI. When mining was on, the companies would release the water from the pits into the streams thus replenishing them during the dry months. However, with mining activities having come to a halt since 2018, every summer the streams in these areas dry up. WRD assistant engineer Shailesh Pokle told TOI, “We are making best efforts to solve the irrigation water crisis. Work (of pumping water from the mining pits) is already in progress on priority basis.” However, sources said that the pumps being used are of lower capacity and water has not reached the horticulturists. Year after year, despite the water problem, farmers of Pissurlem and Honda continue to cultivate vegetables and chillies. This year they have been doubly hit. First the pandemic made it difficult for them to sell their crop and then came the water shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sattari-farmers-facing-irrigation-water-paucity/articleshow/75512870.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Two held in Chhota Udepur for Covid rumours||Vadodara: Two persons were arrested by local crime branch of Chhota Udepur police on Saturday for spreading fake messages on WhatsApp. Police said Jitendra Rathwa and Khuman Rathwa, both residents of Kawant taluka of Chhota Udepur, had spread a false message on WhatsApp to create fear among people about coronavirus. The message mentioned that a man named Nilesh Rathwa from Rangpur village has tested positive for coronavirus so everyone should be careful while keeping in touch with people from his village. On checking with health department, it was learned that no person named Nilesh Rathwa had tested positive for coronavirus. “Our team of cybercrime branch, which has been keeping a watch on social media and WhatsApp messages, came across this message on April 25 so an offence was registered against unidentified persons. While probing the trail of the message, we found out that these two accused had written this message to create panic,” said a police official. Police are yet to question the duo why they did this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-in-chhota-udepur-for-covid-rumours/articleshow/75512067.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||10 deaths, 53 cases, but Amravati in orange zone||Nagpur: Fresh colour coding of Covid-19 districts in Vidarbha as per number of cases and their doubling rate has triggered confusion amongst citizens. Even if the coding was out in public on May 1, health department has referred data provided by the district administrations up to April 29. Due to this, the sudden spurt of cases in Amravati went unnoticed and the district remained in orange zone despite having 53 cases and 10 deaths, highest in Vidarbha. “Amravati is technically in red zone now. This data and colour coding is dynamic and subject to change weekly. By next week, Amravati will appear in red zone. Considering this, we have applied all restrictions for red zone in the district,” said Piyush Singh, divisional commissioner of Amravati division. The confusion in Amravati happened because the sudden spurt in cases and doubling rate was from April 30 onwards. Total 12 cases came to fore on April 30, three on May 1, ten cases on May 2. Amravati thus saw a surge of 25 cases, including four deaths in last three days. However, as this data is yet to be updated, Amravati remained in orange zone. Buldhana has been upgraded from red to orange zone in this new update. Total cases in Buldhana are 24 (one death) but active cases in district are only seven as 16 patients have already been discharged. Here active patients have remained less than 15 for two weeks. Gondia made a major positive transition from orange to green zone. As per the Health Ministry standards, a district is in green zone, if there are no confirmed cases at all or no fresh case for 21 days. Gondia had reported its last and only confirmed positive case on March 27. The patient recovered and was sent home on April 12. On the other hand, Bhandara, which was in green zone until now, recorded its first case on April 27 and was shifted to orange zone. Yavatmal was in orange zone earlier and turned red after recording 80 new cases in four days from April 25 to 28.Chandrapur, which reported its first case on May 2, has been included in orange zone as the health department in Maharashtra has included two Chandrapur-based patients who were admitted, treated, and cured in Nagpur in Chandrapur’s account. However, Chandrapur’s district administration is not ready to include these two in its list because they had never been to Chandrapur before getting detected as Covid-19 patient or since. On May 1, as there was no case in Chandrapur officially, its guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar demanded that the district should be in green zone. This will not stand now as district’s first case, a 50-yr-old woman admitted in the isolation ward of GMCH Chandrapur has tested positive. Secretary of department of health and family welfare Preeti Sudan stated the list will be updated weekly. “Some states have raised issues on inclusion of certain districts in red zone, I would like to highlight that this is a dynamic list. It will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and communicated to states for further follow-up,” she said adding states are allowed to add more districts in red zone on their own. “Based on field feedback and additional analysis at state level, states may designate additional red or orange zones as appropriate,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-deaths-53-cases-but-amravati-in-orange-zone/articleshow/75512006.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man from Assam kills state mate in Cuddalore||CUDDALORE: A guest worker from Assam killed another on Friday following an argument over sharing the workload and food at a cashew nut company in Cuddalore district. Police said the deceased, 45-year-old S Sajasnath stayed in a village near Panruti with five other workers from Assam. All six were employed at the same unit. Police said Sajasnath and K Sankarnath alias Biswathnath, 25, of Karimkanch district in Assam would harass their colleague Narendra Piesnap, 25, from Rathapadi, accusing him of consuming more food than them but working less. The two would then force him to work more. On Thursday night, Piesnap went to sleep with Sajasnath and Sankarnath on the first floor of their rented house. Panruti DSP G Nagarajan said Piesnap awoke around 6am on Friday and noticed the other two fast asleep. He hit them on the head with an iron rod and escaped. Hearing their cries, the other workers rushed to the spot to find Sajasnath unconscious and Sankarnath wailing in pain, the DSP said. The two were taken to the Panruti government hospital where doctors declared Sajasnath brought dead. Sankarnath was referred to Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research (Jipmer) in Puducherry for advanced treatment after first aid. Police, quoting doctors, said Sankarnath sustained severe head injuries and is in critical condition. The Kadampuliyur police registered a case against Piesnap and arrested him. A court later sent him to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-from-assam-kills-state-mate-in-cuddalore/articleshow/75512466.cms||Bosco Dominique
May 3, 2020||Goa||Cloudy weather ends today, dry days next||Panaji: The India meteorological department (IMD) has said that light rain and thundershowers will preval in parts of Goa till Sunday. It also said that dry days will follow this weather condition. “After that, the chances of rainfall are less. A few dry days will follow after May 3. The possibility for remaining days has to be further verified. For that, we are awaiting latest observations.” IMD scientist, Rahul MC said. IMD has attributed the rains to summer showers that are occurring due to the development of a trough in the Arabian Sea. A previous forecast had indicated this weather phenomenon only till May 1. “It is a seasonal trough that runs from Marathwada to the interior of Tamil Nadu. It also has a portion passing through Karnataka and the thunder storm clouds developing in interior Karnataka are therefore moving towards Goa,” Rahul said.  There were reports of parts of Sanguem and Bardez receiving light rainfall on Saturday while IMD’s rain gauge station recorded 1mm of rainfall in Mapusa taluka on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cloudy-weather-ends-today-dry-days-next/articleshow/75512875.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||RMC staff join corona fight stitching face masks||Rajkot: They are serving to humanity without expecting anything in return. Meet a group of corona warriors from Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), who are working selflessly in war against Covid-19. While some are engaged in making face masks and their free distribution, others have not seen their family members as they are on 24X7 duty since the beginning of the lockdown period in March last week. “When Rohit Parmar said that he knew tailoring and that he could sew and make masks, we provided him with cloth. So far, Parmar has made 350 masks and donated them to the poor and needy,” said RMC commissioner Udit Agrawal. Parmar, who serves as a technical assistant in the census department of the ward 18 of the RMC, said, “In such a time of crisis, I felt called upon to do something for the humanity.”Like Parmar, Falguni Kalyani, who is the ward officer of the RMC ward 13, holds free distribution of masks among the poor and needy. Then there is Dr Bhoomi Kamani, who has not seen her four-year-old twin daughters for the past one month. “I talk to my kids through video calling. When the numbers of Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise, how can I sit at home. My duty comes first before my family,” said Dr Kamani, who is the chief health officer of the RMC’s health department. When it was realized that hand to hand contact was the prime reason for Covid-19 infection, a group consisting of RMC ward number 14 engineer H A Vasava, ward officer Hemadri Zala, assistant engineer Harshvijaysinh Gohil and work assistant Parth Parmar invented hand free sanitizer machine and hand free wash basin, both of which are operated through feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-staff-join-corona-fight-stitching-face-masks/articleshow/75511135.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two trains leave for UP, Odisha||Gandhinagar: Two special trains carrying migrant workers left Gujarat, for Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja flagged off the special train for UP from Ahmedabad. One ‘Shramik’ special train with 1,127 passengers left Surat for Puri in Odisha. This was followed by a second special train leaving Ahmedabad for Agra with 1,217 migrant workers. Jadeja said, “The state government has begun sending workers to their native places. PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have been taking keen interest in the movement of workers.” Gujarat government has appointed Vipul Mittra, ACS, labour and employment, as the state nodal officer for movement of migrants by special trains. “The trains were organised following requests from the concerned states. The passengers were screened and only those found to be fit were allowed to board,” said Vipul Mittra. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-trains-leave-for-up-odisha/articleshow/75512503.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Kannur, Kasaragod ready to receive the returnees||KANNUR: Since hundreds are expected to reach the state from other states following relaxations in the lockdown from May 4, stringent measures are in place in Kannur and Kasaragod to ensure there is no community spread of the disease. In Kannur, the entry to the district would be permitted only via Kalikkadavu, Mahe and Nedumpoyil and all other border roads would be closed. Moreover, all those who enter the district will have to undergo quarantine in their homes orCovid care centres (CCCs). After screening of people entering the district, those with symptoms of Covid would be shifted to hospitals while others would be asked to go on home quarantine. All facilities are in place for screening, said officials. If there are kids, ailing or elderly people in the houses of those arriving from other states, such people would be asked to go on quarantine in CCC. In case of home quarantine, the residents of those houses will also have to undergo quarantine and a mobile application has been developed to ensure this, said officials. The app is developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) Kerala, and it can track the movement of people in quarantine. In Kasaragod, the authorities are expecting around 18,000 people from other states and to screen them there will be 100 help desks at Kerala-Karnataka border in Thalappady, said district collector D Sajith Babu. It would function round the clock, and people would be screened using thermal scanners. The help desks would be on either side of the road and there will also be facilities for vehicle parking. All departments including PWD, KSEB and revenue have been asked to put in place the arrangements to ensure smooth functioning of the help desks and screening facilities, and a control room will coordinate it. Though junior health inspectors would be examining people at the borders, a medical officer’s service would be utilized in case of confusion, said a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-kasaragod-ready-to-receive-the-returnees/articleshow/75511148.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown 3.0: Offices in U’khand to open from 10 am to 4 pm, shops from 7 am to 4 pm||Dehradun: With the Centre extending the lockdown for another two weeks, the Uttarakhand government has decided to allow government offices to remain open May 4 onwards with limited staff from 10 am to 4 pm. Besides, shops and other commercial establishments would be permitted to operate from 7 am to 4 pm. Meanwhile, the state government on Saturday started the process of bringing back state residents stranded in other states. Also, facility for inter-district movement will be arranged for people stuck in different regions of the state. In a media briefing on Saturday, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “In green zone areas, it is compulsory for Grade I and II officers to attend office and 50% of the office staff of Grade III and IV would be called for work each day. Pregnant women, those with children below 10 years of age, and employees above 55 years of age would be called only for important and urgent works.” For the orange and red zone areas, the office timings would remain the same. However, the percentage of Grade III and IV employees to be called for duty would be 33%. The head of departments would prepare the roster for the employees. “The situation will be reviewed on a weekly basis and if the condition improves, we can call 50% staff for work in these two zones as well,” added the chief secretary. The official further said that the secretariat office in Dehradun would open at 9:30 am. The chief secretary said that over 1.25 lakh people of Uttarakhand, who are stranded in other states, have applied on the official website for their return. “Over 20,000 people have registered from Uttar Pradesh, 15,000 from Maharashtra, over 7,000 from Punjab, and 3,600 from Chhattisgarh. We expect the number to go up further,” he said. He pointed out that it was an extensive exercise and a high number of people wanted to return to hill districts of Almora, Pauri, and Tehri. Meanwhile, on Saturday, around 1,500 people from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Haryana were brought back to Uttarakhand till the afternoon hours. Likewise, over 3,000 people, who were stuck at different locations within the state, were moved to their respective native districts. On the issue of maintaining state revenue, the chief secretary said that a committee headed by Indu Kumar Pandey, former chief secretary, is expected to handover its report by the next week. “The committee has interacted with several stakeholders, experts and authorities and on the basis of the report, we will take further action.” He pointed out that more than 1.45 lakh quintal wheat has been procured and the payment to farmers is being ensured within 48 hours. A fund of Rs 24 crore has also been released for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-3-0-offices-in-ukhand-to-open-from-10-am-to-4-pm-shops-from-7-am-to-4-pm/articleshow/75511128.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Delhi hospital discharges patient with cancer after he tests Covid-19 positive||DEHRADUN: A top Delhi-based private hospital allegedly discharged a 65-year-old man, a resident of Dehradun in advanced stages of pancreatic cancer, after he tested positive for Covid-19. As per norms, Apollo Hospital — where the man was admitted — was supposed to inform health authorities about his status and provide him treatment, according to Uttarakhand’s additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant, who added that action would be taken against the hospital for flouting Covid-19 protocol. A spokesperson for Apollo Hospital said the patient was not treated due to unavailability of a bed in Covid-19 ward, but was given the option of shifting to another facility. The hospital also claims that it had informed the Delhi government of the patient’s health status. (TOI could not independently verify this claim). The man, who had been admitted to the hospital in Delhi on April 28, was found positive for Covid-19 on April 30 after a test and then discharged. On May 1, he travelled for about 8 hours to Dehradun in a private vehicle with his son and the next day he dialled the state health department’s helpline to inform them about his status, according to Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer. Chauhan said the patient and his son have been shifted to All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, while his wife and daughter are in isolation wards at the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC). The family’s house help, driver and a relative will also be tested for the virus. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava said the patient would be tested for Covid-19 again after which the next course of action would be decided. “We will take action against the private hospital if he indeed tests positive.” A spokesperson for Apollo Hospital said, “The patient had symptoms indicative of Covid-19 following which a test was conducted. He tested positive and was informed that beds were not available in the Covid-19 ward. He was offered a transfer to another of our facilities by the hospital’s nodal officer, who has been appointed by the Delhi government, but the patient decided to return to his place of residence for further management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-hosp-discharges-patient-with-advanced-pancreatic-cancer-after-he-tests-covid-man-travels-8-hrs-home/articleshow/75511114.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Jobless, many turn veggie vendors to make a living||Coimbatore: A switch in profession seems to have become unavoidable for many people, who have lost their livelihood because of lockdown. However, there is a catch. They don’t have a lot of options. And what works best in the given situation seems to be selling vegetables. For 42-year-old P Karthikeyan, life was entirely different before lockdown. Owner of a lathe shop at Edayarpalayam, he had four people working under him. Today, he makes a living out of selling vegetables door to door. For a man who was into lathe business for more than 20 years, it was a difficult decision to make. But the current situation didn’t leave him with much options to make a living.Karthikeyan said, “It has been more than 40 days since I closed my workshop. I wasn’t earning anything since then. I managed the daily expenses and salary of my employees for a month with my savings, which is almost exhausted. I have to take care of electricity bills that would come around Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 and workshop building rent, besides feeding my family members.”It was when the survival was at stake, the idea of selling vegetables struck him. He discussed it with his friend, who promptly pitched in. They then recruited a helper and rented a vehicle for doorstep sales.For the past 10 days, they have been getting ready around 4am to buy vegetables from both wholesale and retail markets to be sold in the residential areas in between Kanuvai and Vadavalli. They wind up the sales before 1pm.“While it isn’t as profitable as the lathe business, it has become our life-saver. We get at least a few thousands a day and we split that among ourselves. We are thinking of continuing the sales even after the lockdown, as we are not sure when the lathe business would revive,” Karthikeyan said.He said more than 90% lathe owners, who are functioning out of rental buildings, were planning to give up the business. Fifty-year-old V P Shanmugasundaram too has a similar story to say. A goods carrier owner, he has joined hands with his friends to sell vegetables in and around Edayarpalayam region daily. He said, “I have been transporting raw materials and finished goods to and from lathe workshops for the past 15 years. When the bookings were less, I used to transport vegetables to catering companies. But never once did I run out of business. The lockdown has completely crippled us.”Shanmugasundaram said he has been thinking of purchasing a pushcart to continue the sales, as he was unlikely to get as many trips as in the past in the near future. “I am just echoing the mindset of several others in the business,” he said.J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises, said several people have started selling vegetables as that was the only viable thing they could do during lockdown to earn their bread and butter.Pointing out that the cottage and micro industries are in a bad shape, he said the business would revive only if the government extended a helping hand. “The government should provide us Rs 1 lakh either as subsidy or interest less loan immediately to resume the business and grant us additional time to pay EMIs and electricity bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jobless-many-turn-veggie-vendors-to-make-a-living/articleshow/75512460.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Migrants, travellers in shelter camps to be sent home first||Kolhapur: The district administration would be sending 852 stranded migrant workers to their respective native places after the existing lockdown ends on Sunday. The central government has directed the states to ensure the stranded travellers and migrant workers are transported back to their homes. Accordingly, the district administration on Saturday decided to make arrangements for those who do not have their own vehicle. District collector Daulat Desai ordered the local authorities to get the details of such people first, who are staying in shelter homes. He also directed the officials to make village-wise list of the stranded workers who want to go back home. Desai said that they have received the state government's guidelines to transport the stranded workers and travellers back home. “Some people have their own vehicles they will be allowed to travel first. Those who do not have vehicles, we will make an arrangement of their transport such as buses or trains if they are from other states. At the village level, the list should be prepared for those seeking to travel. All such people will be checked for their health conditions before allowing them to travel. Those from such areas or places which have containment zone or identified as hotspot will be advised to stay back,” he said. As many as 250 people are from Karnataka followed by 200 from Tamil Nadu. The local authorities have appealed to the citizens from Kolhapur district stranded in other parts, to registered with them as early as possible. District guardian minister Satej Patil said that the state government is making arrangements for special trains to transport the stranded workers to their native place. “We have estimated that there could be more than 10,000 workers, who are in the district. Since the industries and other sectors such as construction are opening many migrant labourers may be wanting to stay back. Once we have the list of such people, we will manage special trains or buses according to their destinations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/migrants-travellers-in-shelter-camps-to-be-sent-home-first/articleshow/75512011.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||31 patients discharged in a week in Mysuru||MYSURU: Mysuru district, which is categorized as a red zone, is inching closer to becoming a green zone, with a rapid drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. In the last one week, 31 patients were cured and discharged from the designated Covid hospital here. The good sign is that Mysuru reported only one Covid-19 case this week. Even the number of people in home quarantine has come down to 93. About 4,648 people have completed their home quarantine. On Saturday, three Covid-19 patients were discharged from the hospital, bringing down the active cases in Mysuru to 21. Liquor to be available from tomorrowWith the sale of liquor slated to begin on Monday, excise department officials are holding a meeting on Sunday, to check how many shops come under the containment zone. Liquor sale is allowed only in retail and MSIL outlets. Mysuru district has 217 retail and MSIL outlets. If any liquor shop is within the containment zone, they’re restricted from operating. According to guidelines, liquor sale will be allowed between 9 am and 7 pm, and shopkeepers should ensure that buyers keep a minimum distance of 6 ft from each other, while making purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/31-patients-discharged-in-a-week-in-mysuru/articleshow/75511119.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||More trouble as corona enters Amt rural belt||Amravati: The district administration and people have more reasons to feel anxious as now Covid-19 cases are being registered from rural areas too. One of the three who tested positive on Saturday post death is from Shirala village in Chandur Bazar tehsil. Earlier, a 50-year-old woman from Warud had become the first Covid-19 patient from rural areas of the district after testing positive in Nagpur on Friday.District collector Shailesh Naval said that of the 81 samples received on Saturday, 71 tested negative and 10 positive, including three deaths. Now the district’s Covid count has touched to 53, including four recovered persons. “The district now has 39 active cases. Emergence of cases from rural parts is a matter of great concern,” he said.Naval said that strict bandobast has been deployed at rural and urban police outposts. “Except emergency services no other services would be provided to people. Amravati Municipal Corporation has launched an App on which people could give their suggestions,” he said. The two others who tested positive on Saturday post death include a 58-year-old Kanwar Nagar paan kiosk operator and a 55-year-old male resident of Chhaya Nagar, which is close to Kanwar Nagar. While the Kanwar Nagar man died on April 27 morning, the other two a couple of days ago, sources from the Covid hospital here said.Among the remaining seven positive patients reported on Saturday, five are from Taj Nagar with three males (aged 38, 36 and 32) and two females (7 and 34). A 72-year-old man from taj Nagar had died of Covid-19 on April 27. With five more cases, the locality now has the second highest (6) cases after Kholapuri Gate (9).A 38-year-old male from Tarkheda tested positive on Saturday, becoming the fifth case from the area. A 40-year-old woman from the area had died at home on April 23 and tested positive post death.The Kanwar Nagar deceased took the total number of cases from his locality to four as three of his family members — mother, brother and wife — had tested positive on April 30.A 23-year-old man became the first person to test positive from Gaus Nagar on Saturday. Almost all the cases seem to be asymptomatic. “On April 30, Amravati had 40 cases and only one of them was symptomatic while the rest 39 were asymptomatic,” divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told TOI on Saturday.Though central government shows Amravati in the orange zone, collector Naval said it is in the red zone while Singh said the process is dynamic and category changes weekly. “Next week Amravati will be categorized as red,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-trouble-as-corona-enters-amt-rural-belt/articleshow/75512009.cms||---
May 3, 2020||India||MHA guidelines: 'RWAs to take final call on helps'||NEW DELHI: While home ministry guidelines have allowed services by self-employed persons such as domestic help in all zones, sources in the ministry indicated resident welfare associations may have the last word on allowing their entry into residential buildings and colonies. “RWAs should take a call regarding allowing the movement of outsiders. Health protocols need to be kept in mind. Also there is no public transport allowed in red zones and so domestic helps who stay away from place of work may find it difficult to travel every day. The responsibility would lie with the person calling or allowing outsiders, in case of any mishap,” said an officer. A debate is already on in RWAs on the pros and cons of allowing domestic help in residential apartments and colonies. “Just like RWAs decided on barring entry during the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is up to them to lift the ban. MHA guidelines have only cleared the way,” the officer explained. Services by self-employed persons have been allowed across zones, but home ministry sources on Saturday clarified that barber shops, salons and spas in red zones would continue to be shut. However all these services can resume from May 4 in orange and green zones. The home ministry on Saturday put out a formal clarification that no inter-district or intra-district movement of buses would be allowed in orange zones, though taxis, cab aggregators and inter-district movement of private cars with maximum two passengers in the back is okay for all permitted activities. In orange zones, apart from activities prohibited throughout the country as well as plying of buses, all other activities would be allowed without restrictions. “However, states and UTs based on their assessment and priorities, may choose to permit a less number of activities,” the ministry said in a release. While private offices can function with 33% strength in red zones, this may be seen as the minimum capacity at which offices in orange and green zones can work, said an officer. “States can always enforce tougher guidelines depending on the local assessment/requirements. MHA guidelines have only defined the boundaries within which states can enforce the lockdown within their respective jurisdiction,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rwas-to-take-final-call-on-helps/articleshow/75513112.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Restrictions in Kanan Nagar eased from today||Kolhapur: The restrictions in Kanan Nagar have been eased to some extent from Sunday. The area was declared a containment zone as a person who arrived in that area on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC ) had put up barricades sealing the Kanan Nagar which is mostly a slum area. The health staff of the KMC has completed the door-to-door survey of suspected Covid-19 patients. The staff had found seven people who came into contact with the Covid-19 patient. Dilip Powar, a local corporator said, “All seven people have been screened and sent back home. They all have been advised to home quarantine themselves. Since all the locals have been checked and the area has been disinfected twice, the restrictions have been eased from Sunday. We have ensured that people remain inside their houses and get the essentials at their doorsteps.” According to civic officials, the Covid-19 patient had returned from Pune in a private vehicle. He stayed at Kanan Nagar for a couple of hours and after the advice of the residents, he went to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital for testing. Now, the barricades are removed and the locals can step out of their homes. The residents from nearby areas can also move along the roads which were blocked as part of the containment zone. A KMC official said that though the restrictions will be eased. The containment zone will continue to remain in place. The containment zone at Bhakti Puja Nagar in Mangalwar Peth where the first two Covid-19 cases were reported, is not a containment zone from Saturday. Vaibhav Nawadkar, the sub-divisional officer said that containment zone is cancelled only after it is found that there are no chances of further spread of the infection in that zone. “We carried out the final survey in the zone and found no suspects. All the contacts who were traced have completed their quarantine period and have not been infected by the coronavirus,” he said. “The containment zone has been cancelled after five weeks. Some restrictions like the movement of the locals were eased five days after the reporting of the cases,” said Nawadkar. Sub-divisional office is authorised to cancel containment zone Peth Vadgaon which was declared a containment zone after a girl who came in contact with Islampur Covid-19 patients tested positive. Now the area is no more a containment zone. The girl has recovered and is now under home quarantine. The district officials said that around 60 close contacts of all these Covid-19 patients who were under institutional quarantine have been released. The KMC has surveyed over 1,200 people from Kanan Nagar, 3,700 people from Mangalwar Peth and 3,000 from Kasba Bawda containment zone. Currently, only one Covid-19 case from the city is active. The rest are from other parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/restrictions-in-kanan-nagar-eased-from-today/articleshow/75512019.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Two more Covid-19 cases found in U’khand, tally now 59||Dehradun: Two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Saturday, taking the state’s tally of patients to 59. Meanwhile, two other Covid-19 patients were discharged in the day after full recovery. Now, the total number of active cases in state are 19. Among them, the maximum active cases are in the state capital. According to health department, among the two positive cases reported on Saturday, one is a trainee (MBBS final year student) at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh and the other is the helper of a Covid-19-positive truck driver from Udham Singh Nagar. UB Mishra, dean of hospital affairs at AIIMS Rishikesh, informed that the trainee was working in the emergency department of the institution since April 16. “A Covid-19-positive woman patient has been kept in the emergency department. We suspect that the trainee may have got the infection from her. We have quarantined the entire hostel where the intern was staying and are testing her primary contacts. We are sanitising all the areas, including the main emergency section and the mess, frequented by the intern. AIIMS will treat general emergency patients in Covid-19 emergency wards for the time being,” he said, while adding that the trainee is stable and her family has been informed about the infection. With the trainee getting infected, AIIMS Rishikesh has reported three cases of infection among healthcare workers and doctors in last one week. Meanwhile, regarding the helper of the truck driver, who was tested Covid-19-positive last week, chief medical officer (CMO) of Udham Singh Nagar Dr Shailja Bhatt said that the truck driver had travelled from Punjab to Haridwar and then to Bajpur with his aide. In some positive news, two Covid-19-patients were discharged from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. Now, a total of 39 positive patients have recovered in the state. The health authorities have tested 7,369 cases in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-covid-19-cases-found-in-ukhand-tally-now-59/articleshow/75511146.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Two-year jail for violating pandemic norms in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the state government on Saturday passed an ordinance amending the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957 by making disobedience of any regulation or obstruction of any officer from discharging his/her duties as a punishable offence with imprisonment of up to two years. The ordinance, passed by governor Kalraj Mishra, also empowers the state to restrict emergency services -- including banks, media, healthcare and food, electricity, water and fuel supply -- during any pandemic. Sources in the government told TOI that the amendment will primarily cover the frontline workers, who are subjected to harassment and violence while dealing with epidemics. The amendment goes beyond individual offenders to cover companies and other establishments accused of any violation. “Every person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence (sic),” reads the ordinance. Explaining the company clause of the ordinance, an official said that during the current coronavirus crisis, several firms have violated state directives of social distancing or no-pay cut. “Now with this ordinance, it will not be easy for them (companies) to get away with such violations,” said the official. The ordinance also grants powers to the state to take special measures and make special regulations during pandemic situations. Now the state can prohibit any act, which it considers sufficient to spread or transmit epidemic diseases from person to person. The ordinance will give no legal escape route to an erring party – individual, company or group (social and religious).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-year-jail-for-violating-pandemic-norms-in-raj/articleshow/75512880.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Two M’luru residents stranded on cruise ship return home||Manglauru: After spending 40 days on board a cruise ship that was stranded at sea, two Managluru residents returned home on Friday. The duo had had no option but to stay put on the ship after the lockdown was enforced in India. In all, as many as 23 crew members on board the United Kingdom-based company Marella Cruises, had been drifting out on the sea since the lockdown was implemented off the coast of Mumbai. They were all sent back home by bus on Thursday. Among the 23 crew members, six are from Karnataka, while the remaining members are from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Hariprasad Rao, cruise front office supervisor, a resident of Kodikal, and Levit D’Souza, who lives in Akashabhavan, arrived in Mangaluru on Friday. The duo duly reported their arrival in the city to police, and are staying in Kavoor at the moment. The bus they came to Mangaluru by arrived via the Hejamady checkpost, where both D’Souza and Rao were subjected to a medical examination before they entered Dakshina Kannada. Rao said that the cruise ship, with 1,600 passengers on board left Singapore Port on March 14, and docked in at Chennai on March 23. Of the 1,600 passengers, 600 were crew members, among whom there were 145 Indians. “But the port authorities in Chennai, Kochi and Mangaluru refused to allow the ship to dock. The cruise was finally allowed to dock at Mumbai Port on April 23, where the Indian crew members were subsequently quarantined for seven days at a hotel,” Rao told STOI. On the four Karnataka residents whom they journeyed with, Rao said that there were two from Belagavi, and one each from Mysuru and Dandeli. “All of us were given permission to return home after we cleared the medical test. We underwent tests at nearly 20 places en route to Mangaluru. We have informed the cops, and are staying in Kavoor for now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-mluru-residents-stranded-on-cruise-ship-return-home/articleshow/75510310.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Orphanages, old age homes in Coimbatore look for help||COIMBATORE: The orphanages and old age homes in the district are finding it difficult to take care of inmates, as sponsors are not in a position to supply them essentials. It has forced an orphanage cum home for differently abled children and senior citizens on the outskirts of the city to approach their benefactors after almost 20 years for donations to feed 365 of its inmates. The management of Universal Peace Foundation in Annur say they never had to call people for donations before lockdown, as many corporates and families used to sponsor materials, including rice and groceries. However, donations have stopped since March 22, leading to shortage. It is not an isolated case. The situation of almost all the 20 old age homes in the district and 30-odd orphanages in the city is the same. Bright Sam, who runs the old age home cum orphanage Nahomea Alms House at Dhaliyur, says, “While we do get government funding, 50% of our requirements are met through donations and sponsorships. Now, donations have literally come to a stop and we are managing with the rice, dal and other items, which were donated before lockdown.” While regular donations to orphanages and old age homes comprise materials such as rice, dal and masala powders, they get big help from people on special occasions like birthdays, weddings, wedding anniversaries and death anniversaries. Muthu, reception manager of Universal Peace Foundation, says, “Many people visit us on these special days and donate either a meal for all inmates or all meals for a day. Now, due to restrictions, no one is able to visit us and donate.” Expressing a similar view, David Daniel, who conducts Kings Kids Home with 50 children, says, “These donations make a huge difference. Sometimes they cook and bring the food, at times they contribute rations for the meals. Cash donation is very rare. Presently, we are buying provisions from shops on credit.” Many orphanages, which have been balancing their LPG cylinder usage by using firewood, have been using more gas nowadays since procuring firewood has become more difficult. “It is difficult for people to contribute a cylinder to us. So, we are managing very carefully,” says Muthu. District social welfare officer Thangamani says there are around 20 registered old age homes with 790 inmates and a home for HIV infected abandoned people in the district. He agrees many homes have approached them for food. “We have helped at least four old age homes and the home for HIV infected by mobilizing volunteers to get them groceries and rations. We will help more of them if they approach us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/orphanages-old-age-homes-look-for-help/articleshow/75512461.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda goes from green to orange with 1st +ve case||Chandrapur: A 50-year-old male from Krishna Nagar locality became the first Covid-19 positive patient of Chandrapur which was wrongly shown in the Orange Zone on the government website with three cases on Friday. After receiving the man’s test reports late on Saturday evening, the civic administration began a containment drive in the area.Authorities are also collecting the names of people he may have come in contact with. Sources informed that the person had high fever and pneumonia-like symptoms. He was admitted at the isolation ward in Chandrapur GMCH on Friday. His throat and nasal swab samples were collected and sent to Nagpur for Covid-19 test. Civil surgeon Dr ND Rathod confirmed the case. Sources claimed that so far he has not revealed any history of coming in contact with people with foreign travel history or those from Red or Orange zones. Earlier, three patients hailing from Chandrapur had tested positive but none of them had been in Chandrapur for the last several weeks. District guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar of the Congress had tweeted on Friday that Chandrapur should be in the green and not in the orange zone. The three cases attributed to Chandrapur were a couple, who are in Nagpur, and an army jawan, who is in Delhi. The jawan, who is in the paramilitary force and posted in Assam, was diagnosed with cancer and taken to Delhi for treatment, where he was found positive for Covid-19, according to district collector Dr Kunal Khemnar.About the couple, Dr Rathod said that the Tablighi Jamaat pair had come from Indonesia and flown into Nagpur via Delhi on March 24. “There were three other couples too but only one tested positive after being taken into quarantined straight from the airport,” he said.The couple have completed their time in the GMCH isolation ward and were discharged after testing negative. They will return to Chandrapur after completing home quarantine in Nagpur. Since they do not have a place to stay in Nagpur, the administration has put them up in Vanamati.Dr Rathod informed that the district officials had twice written to the health department to rectify the mistake. The first letter was sent during the second week of April. “Another letter was dispatched on Friday explaining that the two positive cases had neither caught the infection nor had they tested positive in Chandrapur. Authorities have demanded that the tally be shifted to the place where they would have got the infection from,” he said.Dr Rathod said that the criterion of listing a positive person based on where he hails from is flawed. “The government should list the positive person based on his location for the previous 14 days or when symptoms were first seen. In this case, both the positive patients are listed under Chandrapur only because they belong here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-goes-from-green-to-orange-with-1st-ve-case/articleshow/75512031.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||T Bar Council distributes Rs 3.5k each to 3.4k advocates||Hyderabad: The Telangana Bar council has pooled funds from its own reserves and also from the donors and distributed them to advocates who were caught in the lockdown crisis. It gave Rs 3,500 each to 3,400 advocates. Junior advocates feel that the financial assistance is too small and was given only to a small number of advocates. The bar council is now urging the state to grant them Rs 200 crore to reach out to all eligible lawyers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bar-council-distributes-rs-3-5k-each-to-3-4k-advocates/articleshow/75512470.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||State govt to implement Centre’s order from May 4||Kolhapur: The state government has issued notification to implement the Centre’s order — pertaining to allowing all shops and industries to open in the city — from May 4. District collector Daulat Desai said he will hold a meeting with the representatives of associations and ensure that they follow the standard operating procedures for opening shops, offices, industries and other extablishments. The central government, while extending the lockdown till May 17, had allowed the opening of the shops and industries in orange and green zone districts marked as per the number of coronavirus cases reported. The implementation of the new order will start from Monday . Kolhapur district is currently marked as an orange zone. The categorisation of the zones will be revised every week. A delegation of the Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries had earlier met Desai, requesting him to implement the Centre’s order from Monday. Sanjay Shete, the KCCI president, said, “Last time, the Centre had allowed the opening of standalone shops. However, no decision was taken here. The traders are facing zero cash-flow. They have materials piling up. At the same time, they have to repay loans. They cannot afford to keep their shops shut for long. We had requested the collector to allow the opening of the shops from Monday.” The district administration will hold a comprehensive meeting with all the officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-govt-to-implement-centres-order-from-may-4/articleshow/75512035.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||229 untrained teachers in state: Edu dept stats||Panaji: There are 229 untrained teachers in Goa teaching from classes I to XII, the directorate of education’s (DoE) education statistics for the 2019-20 academic year show. All the untrained teachers teach at the primary and higher secondary school level. The data shows that all teachers employed in high schools across the state possess requisite qualifications. There are 166 untrained teachers teaching in classes XI and XII while 63 of them are employed to teach from classes I to IV in schools across Goa during the current academic year. Of the 63 untrained teachers in primary schools, 55 are employed in unaided private management institutions. Only eight are working in government-aided schools. But at the higher secondary school level, the biggest chunk of untrained teachers, 136, are teaching in government-aided schools. Eight teach in government schools and the remaining 22 in unaided institutions. The data reveals that most of the untrained teachers are concentrated in schools in Tiswadi, Salcete and Mormugao talukas. According to the statistics released by DoE, there are almost 12,700 teachers employed in Goa to teach from classes I to XII. Other than 229, all others possess the required qualifications for the job. The state also boasts the highest percentage of women teachers at the school-level in the country. Of all the teachers, over 78% are females. This is in sync with the recommendation of the Union human resource development ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/229-untrained-teachers-in-state-edu-dept-stats/articleshow/75512878.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Goa’s economy may suffer major jolt if migrant workers decide to go home||Panaji: Goa’s struggling economy is bracing up for another jolt as the state stares at exodus of migrants who form an integral part of the economic activities. Preliminary enquiries by the state government indicate that at least 35,000 migrants plan to head home once suitable arrangements are made. From construction workers to those in the fishing industry, these migrant labourers mostly hail from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, who are planning to go back home. At least 8,000 fishermen, mainly from Orissa and Jharkhand, have already informed authorities of their desire to go home. All Goa Bakers’ and Confectioners Association said some workers from south Karnataka have already abandoned bakeries and tried to flee to their states, while some workers are waiting to cross the border. “It is all about the relationship between the employer and the worker. If the employer has paid sustenance wages during the lockdown, then the pressure to return home is lower,” said Shivanand Salgaocar, chairman and managing director of Vimson Group. Salgaocar expects a big impact on economic activities that depend on contract labour, especially infrastructure projects where the workers have lost their livelihood. While migrant workers employed with industrial units and in the organised sector are less likely to head to their native villages, labourers engaged in the informal sector, who eke out a living on a day-to-day basis, are more likely to head home. “Those who are living hand to mouth are more vulnerable and they will prefer to go back. The construction labourer, if the building activity starts, will stay and if not then go back,” said trade union leader Suhaas Naik. He said besides the industrial units, there are equal number of migrant workers engaged in carpentry, digging, masonry and in construction. Naik estimates that these invisible workers such as cargo loaders, road construction workers, labourers with minor fabrication shops and streetside hawkers could number around 4,000 to 5,000 and could be most likely to leave. Principal and professor of economics at Shree Mallikarjun and Shri Chetan Desai College of Arts and Commerce Manoj Kamat expects any exodus of workers to bring Goa’s economy to an abrupt halt. “There will be an abrupt impact on the economy because many of these workers are employed in the informal sector and they are desperate to go home. The impact on the tourism sector will be minimal because the sector is shut and is unlikely to start anytime soon. The issue is not just of them leaving, but will they choose to return given that we don’t know when the situation will improve. And if they do return, are we ready to quarantine them and screen them for the coronavirus?” said Kamat. The hospitality sector, facing an unprecedented crisis, has already let go many workers. Kashmiri traders and workers from the northeast region, who work in industries dependent on tourism, are also keen on going home to be with their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-economy-may-suffer-major-jolt-if-migrant-workers-decide-to-go-home/articleshow/75512879.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure return of stranded Gujaratis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday directed the state administration to ensure the safe return of Gujaratis stranded across the country amid the lockdown. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “Gujaratis stranded in other states can call and provide their details on the state’s control room number 079-23251900. The designated IAS and IPS officers for this task from Gujarat will contact their counterparts and regional administration in the concerned states for issuing a permit pass.” Kumar further said that the state government will provide a permit pass and perform a health check for migrant workers who wish to return to their respective home states on their personal expenses. The workers will have to provide their details on the district administration helpline number 1077. A large number of migrant workers are located in Ahmedabad and Surat. The migrant workers from these cities have been sent to their respective home states via buses. Based on the new guidelines issued by government of India, these workers will now be sent via trains. A train from Surat to Odisha and two trains from Ahmedabad to Uttar Pradesh have been arranged for the same. Around 1,200 passengers in each train will be sent back to their respective homes. The train tickets will have to be purchased by the migrant workers on their own. However, tickets will only be provided to those who have provided their details on the district helpline number. The official said the state government has also decided to provide food security allowance to 51.72 lakh beneficiaries of mid-day meal scheme from Class 1 to 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-return-of-stranded-gujaratis/articleshow/75512497.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru zoo gets Rs 1.2 crore from donors, minister seeks more aid||MYSURU: District incharge minister S T Somashekar visited Mysuru zoo for the third time in a fortnight on Saturday and handed over a cheque of Rs 45.3 lakh collected from donors in his constituency to zoo executive director Ajit M Kulkarni. Somashekar was accompanied by minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs K Gopalaiah. During his previous visit on April 29, the minister had handed over a cheque of Rs 73.16 lakh collected from donors in his Yashvanthapura constituency to zoo authorities. So far the minister has ensured Rs 1.19 crore to the zoo for conservation activities amid a looming financial crisis emerging out of the continuous lockdown. After minister Somashekar explained about the situation faced by Mysuru zoo, minister Gopalaiah donated Rs 8 lakh for the upkeep in the zoo and 25 kg rice bag each for 300 staff from his personal account. Infy Foundation’s help soughtMinister S T Somashekar said he had written a letter to philanthropist and chairperson of Infosys Foundation, Sudha Murty, seeking financial aid for maintenance of the zoo. In his letter dated May 1, he mentioned that Sudha Murty had made great contributions for IT revolution in the country through education, economic and cultural development. She is helping the economic development of the country by providing employment to lakhs of people through the foundation and the IT company. Hence he requested her for financial support from Infosys Foundation for the upkeep of animals and birds in the zoo which is facing crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-gets-rs-1-2-crore-from-donors-minister-seeks-more-aid/articleshow/75511189.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Ensure return of stranded Gujaratis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday directed the state administration to ensure the safe return of Gujaratis stranded across the country amid the lockdown. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “Gujaratis stranded in other states can call and provide their details on the state’s control room number 079-23251900. The designated IAS and IPS officers for this task from Gujarat will contact their counterparts and regional administration in the concerned states for issuing a permit pass.” Kumar further said that the state government will provide a permit pass and perform a health check for migrant workers who wish to return to their respective home states on their personal expenses. The workers will have to provide their details on the district administration helpline number 1077. A large number of migrant workers are located in Ahmedabad and Surat. The migrant workers from these cities have been sent to their respective home states via buses. Based on the new guidelines issued by government of India, these workers will now be sent via trains. A train from Surat to Odisha and two trains from Ahmedabad to Uttar Pradesh have been arranged for the same. Around 1,200 passengers in each train will be sent back to their respective homes. The train tickets will have to be purchased by the migrant workers on their own. However, tickets will only be provided to those who have provided their details on the district helpline number. The official said the state government has also decided to provide food security allowance to 51.72 lakh beneficiaries of mid-day meal scheme from Class 1 to 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ensure-return-of-stranded-gujaratis/articleshow/75513337.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||ASI hires local contractor, to finish Basilica roof repair work by May 10||Panaji: With pressure mounting and the monsoon season approaching, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has engaged a local contractor to complete the roofing repair work of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa. The ASI has assured that the work will be completed in a week’s time. “I changed the contractor to a locally available one for immediate action. The original contractor is from Aurangabad and unable to come to Goa due to the lockdown. The new contractor has thoroughly checked the rafters and replaced the worn out ones. He has treated the rafters with anti-termite coating and placed corrugated GI sheets over the rafters. The laying of tiles over that has commenced. The work will be completed by May 10,” ASI Goa circle superintending archaeologist K Amarnath Ramakrishna told TOI. Rector of the Basilica, Fr Patricio Fernandes said the work, which was abandoned, has been speeded up only after his letter to all the authorities highlighting ASI’s neglect of the world heritage monument and following visits and pressure from politicians and the chief minister. Fernandes also stressed the need for professionals to be roped in to carry out the work on the famous monument and alleged that “third rate” work is being undertaken by contractors to whom ASI tenders the work. “We need professionals. Such work cannot just be tendered. The CM is forming a committee with representatives from the Church, ASI and government officials,” he said, adding that anti-termite treatment in the Basilica is also a priority. “The work is being carried out as per conservation norms. We are following rules and regulations and the tender has been approved by the director general ASI. Anybody can participate in the tender. The tender is awarded to whoever bids lowest. How can I overrule existing rules and procedures,” Ramakrishna said, denying the allegation. He added that the contract to the Aurangabad-based contractor was awarded in May 2019, but could only be taken up in January, after the rains and the feast of St Francis Xavier. “The only problem was the sudden rain on April 20. Otherwise there is no issue,” Ramakrishna said. “If there is pressure then they work. They’ve done so much work in the past eight days. This problem wouldn’t have arisen if they had completed it in time,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/asi-hires-local-contractor-to-finish-basilica-roof-repair-work-by-may-10/articleshow/75512883.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Dancing their way to create awareness on Covid-19||Coimbatore: Students of a city college have come up with a classical dance performance to create awareness on safety measures to keep the novel coronavirus away.Members of Natiyanjali, a dance team under the fine arts club of Hindusthan College of Arts and Science in the city, have ideated, performed and produced the dance video, which they have shared on YouTube and other social media platforms.Vanitha Praveenkumar, an assistant professor at the college’s department of computer technology, said they have been discussing ways to use bharatanatyam to spread an awareness message since the lockdown. She is also the coordinator of the college’s fine arts club.“We saw many Covid-19 awareness events that were held across the country and decided to record a bharatanatyam performance to create awareness. The team members discussed and came up with the idea of representing the safety measures that were advised by the state through the dance,” she said.The dance, performed by eight students of the Natiyanjali team, uses mudras and gestures to convey the importance of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining physical distancing. In the background is a Telugu song which speaks of the huge impact of the disease, which the humanity would hopefully defeat and emerge victorious. “We listened to a bunch of songs on the theme and chose this one as it was suitable for our performance,” Vanitha said.The team members, who are at their houses now, recorded their portions, which were later edited into the video. As the members were trained Bharatanatyam dancers, they choreographed and executed the performance themselves.The team comprised choreographer G Sona, Sree Lakshmi, T Poorani, Priya Darsini, J Celin Joys, H Gayathri, B C Nagaveni and B Priyanka, all students of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dancing-their-way-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/75512477.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Digital forms to help medically fit travellers get passes||KOLHAPUR: People stuck in different parts of the district can now use the digital forms to avail travel passes. As stated by the district administration, the protocol states that a person seeking travel pass will be screened at their current location and will be allowed to travel only if they are found medically fit. Collector Daulat Desai has informed the village administration to ensure those quarantine facilities are set-up should be capable to accommodate at least 50 people. Village panchayats have been told to make food and other facilities available and ensure that villagers don’t come in contact with travellers to rule out any Covid-19 infection. A senior district administration official requesting anonymity said that only one form per person should be uploaded to get the travel pass. "We will prepare the list of such travellers. The list will be circulated with the other districts. They will be institutional quarantined at the place where they will be allowed to travel. Same will be the case for those arriving in Kolhapur district," he said. The administration has maintained that the public mode of transport for inter-district travel will be arranged if the number is more. The number of persons who have applied to go out of the district through digital form so far is 8,940 and 12,147 have applied seeking entry into Kolhapur district. As per the guidelines of the central government such public transport buses can ply with not more than 50% of the seats occupied to ensure that social distancing rules are followed. The official said that those travelling by their own car or hiring cab should also follow the guidelines, which states that not more than two people excluding driver should travel in a car. However, such criterias are likely to cause inconvenience to those who are stuck with their family members. A family of four now have to hire a separate car for the extra member. One such family member requesting anonymity said that he has filled up the forms for each of the four family members. “I am the only person who can drive. If by the rules I have to make a separate arrangement for a family member, three out of two are kids. Also, the administration has told me that we will be put in quarantine for at least two weeks after reaching Pune. Why it should be applied to us while we have remained inside our homes all the time for the last 40 days? Instead of living in institutional quarantine, it would be better for me to stay here till the end of lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/digital-forms-to-help-medically-fit-travellers-get-passes/articleshow/75512045.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Grocery shops to remain shut today||Coimbatore: Over 2,000 grocery shops on RG Street and in and around TK Market will not open today.The Coimbatore Grocery Merchants Association, Tamil Nadu Merchant’s Federation, Coimbatore Market Vendors Association of TK Market and Coimbatore Cooking Oil Merchants Association decided to shut the shops for the day based on the request of the police department.District president of the Tamil Nadu Merchant’s Federation G Irudayaraja said most of the shops in the locality are wholesale shops. “Crowd will be less at the wholesale shops on Sundays as retailers have a busy day. Some of the wholesale shops will not function on Sundays to provide a day off to employees,” he said. The measure is expected to reduce crowd in the market area, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/grocery-shops-to-remain-shut-today/articleshow/75512474.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: PEW police crack down on illicit arrack sale, arrest five||COIMBATORE: Five people have been arrested for sale of illicit arrack in four separate incidents that were reported from Kovilpalayam, No 24 Veerapandi and Karamadai areas. In the first incident, based on a tip, Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of Periyanaickenpalayam unit police conducted a raid at Kolinchi Thottam on Kariyamapalyam-Karamadai Road on Friday night and arrested two people for brewing illicit arrack. They identified the accused as K Prakash, 38, of Salaiyur near Nallichettipalayam, and S Balaji, 36, of Otarpalayam near Annur. PEW police have seized 15 litres of fermented sap from them. The same team also arrested 30-year-old Kulanthaivelu, of No 24 Veerapandi, and M Ranjithkumar, 31, of Karupparayan Kovil Street in the locality on Friday night and seized from them 20 and 25 litres of fermented sap, respectively. An official source said Ranjithkumar was involved in the sale of illicit arrack near the government hospital at No 24 Veerapandi. In the fourth incident, 37-year-old K Senniyappan alias Avinashilingam, of Vellanaipatti, was arrested on Saturday morning for selling illicit attack near his house. Police have seized two litres of arrack and 10 litres of fermented sap from him. The source said all the arrested were lodged in jail under judicial custody. PEW police said they have been working to curtail the sale of illicit arrack, the demand for which has shot up following the closure of Tasmac and private bars, in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pew-police-crack-down-on-illicit-arrack-sale-arrest-5/articleshow/75512469.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 casualty count breaches 100-mark in Pune||Pune: The Covid-19 casualty count in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached the 100-mark with four more people succumbing to the contagion on Saturday, making PMR the second after Mumbai to reach this “dreaded figure”. The first Covid-19 death in Pune was reported on March 30. From there, it took 33 days to reach the 100-mark. A majority of these casualties have been reported at Sassoon hospital. The 100th Cavid-19 casualty was recorded in a 68-year old from Ghorpadi, who succumbed to the contagion at Sassoon hospital on Saturday. He was admitted in the hospital on April 24 with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Three more deaths occurred at the Sassoon hospital on Saturday, including a 73-year old Manjari man with ARDS, who also suffered from hypertension, TB and asthma. Two of these deaths were reported on May 1. However, their throat swab reports came positive for the contagion on Saturday. These include a 77-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth who was admitted to the Sassoon hospital on April 30 and a 72-year-old man from Laxminagar Tadiwala Road. When asked about the high deaths at Sassoon hospital, medical experts said attributed the numbers to the fact that most patients were referred to the hospital when they were already in critical conditions. Of 103 deaths reported in the region so far, maximum were from age group of 50 to 80 years and with co-morbidity conditions. Civic health officials said they had been constantly appealing the residents to visit flu clinics operational all over the city in case of symptoms of cough, cold and fever. Senior citizens with co-morbidity should take more precautions, they said. Positive cases at 1,912 The PMR recorded 97 fresh positive cases on Saturday, taking the total case tally to 1,912 so far. On Friday, 115 new cases were detected in the region. Of total 1,912 positive cases, most have been reported in Pune city (1,704) followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (115) and the rural areas (93). GRAPHIC PAGE 1 DEATH TALLY PMC limits: 29 PCMC limits: 04 Sassoon hospital: 65 Others: 05 Total: 103 INSIDE CASE COUNT Area Cases Discharged PMC limits 1,704 348 PCMC limits 115 49 Rural areas 93 16 Total 1,912 In quarantine: 13,171 Those critical: 71||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-casualty-count-breaches-100-mark-in-pune/articleshow/75513019.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Ensure return of stranded Gujaratis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday directed the state administration to ensure the safe return of Gujaratis stranded across the country amid the lockdown. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “Gujaratis stranded in other states can call and provide their details on the state’s control room number 079-23251900. The designated IAS and IPS officers for this task from Gujarat will contact their counterparts and regional administration in the concerned states for issuing a permit pass.” Kumar further said that the state government will provide a permit pass and perform a health check for migrant workers who wish to return to their respective home states on their personal expenses. The workers will have to provide their details on the district administration helpline number 1077. A large number of migrant workers are located in Ahmedabad and Surat. The migrant workers from these cities have been sent to their respective home states via buses. Based on the new guidelines issued by government of India, these workers will now be sent via trains. A train from Surat to Odisha and two trains from Ahmedabad to Uttar Pradesh have been arranged for the same. Around 1,200 passengers in each train will be sent back to their respective homes. The train tickets will have to be purchased by the migrant workers on their own. However, tickets will only be provided to those who have provided their details on the district helpline number. The official said the state government has also decided to provide food security allowance to 51.72 lakh beneficiaries of mid-day meal scheme from Class 1 to 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ensure-return-of-stranded-gujaratis/articleshow/75513336.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Surat||Tapi cancer patient tests positive||Surat: A 35-year-old blood cancer patient from Intvai village of Tapi district tested positive for Covid-19 at cancer hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday. According to Tapi district health officials, Vinayak Padvi, had been admitted to Surat's SMIMMER hospital for cancer treatment between April 26 and 30. He was later referred to cancer hospital in Ahmedabad for further treatment. On Friday, his samples were taken the report on Saturday confirmed him to be infected with coronavirus.Chief district health officer of Tapi district Dr. Harshad Patel said that a medical team has reached Padvi's village and are trying to trace all those who came in contact with him. “His (Padvi’s) immediate family members have been put under quarantine,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-cancer-patient-tests-positive/articleshow/75511180.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Patil Estate slum residents wary of moving into quarantine after thefts||Pune: Panic has gripped residents of Patil Estate slums after two recent incidents of burgalry, making them wary of leaving their homes and moving into quarantine facilities. On Friday, Ruksana Wahid Shaikh (32) returned to her home after 14 days' quarantine to find it burgled and ransacked. Not only did the thieves take away gold ornaments, television set and Rs 7,000 cash, but also some new clothes the family had bought for children. People from the slum said that this was the second such incident in the past few days. Two days ago, a pan tapri was broken into. They said the residents were scared of moving into quarantine facilities because of the thefts, putting Pune Municipal Corporation’s plans to move them into safer places in jeopardy. Shaikh, her sister, her brother and her children stay in a two-storeyed house in the slum. "My brother and father tested positive for Covid-19 and, subsequently, all of us were moved to a quarantine facility. My husband is a construction worker and he was staying at the project site in Vimannagar. Hence, he wasn’t quarantined," she said. Her father is recuperating in a hospital at Dhankawadi. Shaikh and her two children were quarantined at a facility on Sinhagad Road. "After completing the 14-day quarantine period, we returned on Friday to find that our home had been broken into. We had some gold jewellery and Rs 7,000 cash. We had bought the new television set on Diwali," she said. The family does not own an almirah. Hence, all the valuable were kept in a bag. "The bag is gone along with the new clothes we had bought for my children. Already, we are suffering due to loss of daily wages and now this terrible thing has happened," she said. Shaikh works as a maid, while her mother is a sweeper in a hotel on JM Road. Pramod Solanki, a ration shopowner in the same lane, said that there was fear among people. "Day before yesterday, a pan-tapri was broken into in the dead of night. Yesterday, we came to know about this incident. Nobody heard anything. It must be the handiwork of someone who knew that the family had been sent to a quarantine facility," he said. Shahrukh Quereshi, another resident of the area, said that people have decided not to move out of their homes. "The PMC officials wanted us to move out, but how can we leave everything and just move out. We are hearing about many such incidents here, but don’t know how many of them are true. Once people start returning from quarantine, we will be able to know how many homes have actually been broken into," added Quereshi. Shaikh's statement was recorded by the Khadki police on Friday night. "We will register a case soon. We have started our investigation into the case. In the meantime, we have arrested a thief who had stolen cash and cigarettes from the two pan shops in the area," said senior inspector B J Misal. Burglary in Dattawadi Dattawadi police on Friday night booked unidentified persons for stealing gold ornaments worth Rs1.2 lakh from the locked house of a family from Parvati Darshan area quarantined for the last 10 days. Police said the theft occurred between April 20 and April 30. One of the family members, who tested negative for the virus, stepped out of a quarantine facility on Ganeshkhind Road and walked to the police station to lodge a complaint. Devidas Gheware, senior police inspector, Dattawadi police station, said "We have lodged a complaint against the complainant (42) for neglecting the safety of other people." He said, "The entire family of five persons, including two children, has been quarantined fter one of them tested positive for the virus."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patil-estate-slum-residents-wary-of-moving-into-quarantine-after-thefts/articleshow/75513014.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Surat||Ensure return of stranded Gujaratis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday directed the state administration to ensure the safe return of Gujaratis stranded across the country amid the lockdown. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “Gujaratis stranded in other states can call and provide their details on the state’s control room number 079-23251900. The designated IAS and IPS officers for this task from Gujarat will contact their counterparts and regional administration in the concerned states for issuing a permit pass.” Kumar further said that the state government will provide a permit pass and perform a health check for migrant workers who wish to return to their respective home states on their personal expenses. The workers will have to provide their details on the district administration helpline number 1077. A large number of migrant workers are located in Ahmedabad and Surat. The migrant workers from these cities have been sent to their respective home states via buses. Based on the new guidelines issued by government of India, these workers will now be sent via trains. A train from Surat to Odisha and two trains from Ahmedabad to Uttar Pradesh have been arranged for the same. Around 1,200 passengers in each train will be sent back to their respective homes. The train tickets will have to be purchased by the migrant workers on their own. However, tickets will only be provided to those who have provided their details on the district helpline number. The official said the state government has also decided to provide food security allowance to 51.72 lakh beneficiaries of mid-day meal scheme from Class 1 to 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ensure-return-of-stranded-gujaratis/articleshow/75513338.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Surat||Don’t cross district, state lines sans passes: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While three trains will be leaving from Gujarat, two from Ahmedabad to Agra and one from Surat to Odisha with migrant labourers, DGP Gujarat Shivanand Jha has warned people not to cross district and state borders without following the central guidelines. Jha said people caught at borders without proper passes will be booked and sent back after medical check-up. Jha added that for travel to UP and Odisha, first preference will be given to those migrant labourers who had been staying in shelter homes set up by the state government. The rest will be allowed to leave in stages. Medical tests will be conducted before any migrant labourer is allowed to board a train. “Nodal officers have been appointed by the government for overseeing these processes,” Jha said. Speaking about red, orange and green zones, Jha said that red zones will be monitored more closely than others. “The red zones will be condoned off so that people from red zones cannot go to orange or green zones,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dont-cross-district-state-lines-sans-passes/articleshow/75514773.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Don’t cross district, state lines sans passes: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While three trains will be leaving from Gujarat, two from Ahmedabad to Agra and one from Surat to Odisha with migrant labourers, DGP Gujarat Shivanand Jha has warned people not to cross district and state borders without following the central guidelines. Jha said people caught at borders without proper passes will be booked and sent back after medical check-up. Jha added that for travel to UP and Odisha, first preference will be given to those migrant labourers who had been staying in shelter homes set up by the state government. The rest will be allowed to leave in stages. Medical tests will be conducted before any migrant labourer is allowed to board a train. “Nodal officers have been appointed by the government for overseeing these processes,” Jha said. Speaking about red, orange and green zones, Jha said that red zones will be monitored more closely than others. “The red zones will be condoned off so that people from red zones cannot go to orange or green zones,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dont-cross-district-state-lines-sans-passes/articleshow/75514772.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2 years after death, Pulikkunnel named accused in funds case||Thiruvananthapuram: The special crime branch wing of CBI here has registered an FIR against renowned Christian reformer Joseph Pulikkunnel, who died over two years ago, and the charity organizations he headed for alleged offence of misappropriation of foreign funds that was meant only for charity works. The FIR was registered on April 30 based on a government notification. Besides Joseph Pulikkunnel, the others arraigned as accused are his charity organizations, Good Samaritans Project India (GSPI) and Catholic Reformation Literature Society (CRLS). Besides these parties, the CBI has also arraigned ‘unknown others’ as the fourth accused in the FIR. The original case in this regard was registered in the year 2012 by Valiyathura police based on a petition filed by advocate Vincent Panikulangara before state police chief then. Later, the crime branch wing of the state police took over the case. Since the alleged offence fell under the purview of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act that needed to be probed by a national agency the state police chief requested the government to hand over the case to the CBI. The central government issued gazette notification in this regard on March 11 this year based on which the CBI has registered an FIR. The allegations against Pulikkunnel, who was the board leader of GSPI and CRLS, are that he misappropriated funds in tune of Rs 2.10 crore received from Netherlands based charitable organisation Woord en Daad during the period from 1974 to 2009 to purchase landed properties. Meanwhile, the arraigning of Pulikkunnel, who died in December 2017, as an accused in the FIR has raised several eyebrows. Sources close to CBI said that the investigation officer may have registered the FIR based on government order and may have been unaware of his demise. However, since there are other accused in the FIR, the investigation team may try to expose the alleged fraud by probing into their activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-years-after-death-pulikkunnel-named-accused-in-funds-case/articleshow/75511178.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Spike in coronavirus cases in PCB areas near Bhavani Peth||PUNE: Some areas of Pune Cantonment Board, adjacent to Peth areas of the Pune Municipal Corporation, recorded a surge in Covid- 19 cases in the past 48 hours. About 14 new cases were detected in Modikhana, a core part of the cantonment. It shares boundary with the Bhavani Peth, recording maximum coronavirus cases so far in the Pune corporation limits. The board authorities, with the help of police, sealed the entry and exit points of the Pune Municipal Corporation limits as a precautionary measure on Friday. Two more positive cases were also found in the sealed Ghorpadi area. Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), told TOI, “We conducted an active testing drive in the Modikhana area over the past three days and the outcome was alarming. We found 14 positive cases in the past 48 hours. Our staffers have collected more samples and the test results are awaited.” He said, “Unfortunately, people with symptoms like fever and cough are not coming forward and giving their health details. Our staffers found some of them during the door-to-door survey. Subsequently, we collected their samples and found them positive. We have been urging people not to conceal information. Otherwise, it would be a challenge to track positive patients.” The board fears that more positive cases are likely to be reported from the area. “Modikhana and Bhimpura localities are highly congested and maintaining the required social distancing norms is impossible there. Since we have found positive cases, our primary focus is on tracking as many people as possible, who came in contact with the patients,” Kumar said. “We have created 150-bed quarantine facilities at two schools. Also, testing kits have been purchased for conducting tests in the PCB limits,” said another official from the board 13 patients recover A total of 13 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital on Friday after two weeks of treatment. “It’s a positive news for us as our doctors and staffers worked hard to provide treatment to the patients,” said Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of the PCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-pcb-areas-near-bhavani-peth/articleshow/75513023.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t cross district, state lines sans passes: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While three trains will be leaving from Gujarat, two from Ahmedabad to Agra and one from Surat to Odisha with migrant labourers, DGP Gujarat Shivanand Jha has warned people not to cross district and state borders without following the central guidelines. Jha said people caught at borders without proper passes will be booked and sent back after medical check-up. Jha added that for travel to UP and Odisha, first preference will be given to those migrant labourers who had been staying in shelter homes set up by the state government. The rest will be allowed to leave in stages. Medical tests will be conducted before any migrant labourer is allowed to board a train. “Nodal officers have been appointed by the government for overseeing these processes,” Jha said. Speaking about red, orange and green zones, Jha said that red zones will be monitored more closely than others. “The red zones will be condoned off so that people from red zones cannot go to orange or green zones,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-cross-district-state-lines-sans-passes/articleshow/75512496.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Agri university explores ways to keep R&D alive||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) and all-India coordinated project on soil test crop response (AICRP-STCR) have charted out ways to keep research alive and reach farmers during lockdown.The department of soil science and agricultural chemistry, directorate of natural resource management, TNAU, is part of AICRP-STCR and provides technical advice to famers on fertiliser recommendation and nutrient management, said a release.It said Pradip Dey, project coordinator of AICRP-STCR from the Indian Institute of Soil Science (IISS), Bhopal, has provided a set of directions during online discussion sessions with S Maragatham, a TNAU associate professor who is incharge of the scheme here.According to Dey, the release said, any disruption in agriculture research and development would impact food security and so that has to be continued during lockdown. Farmers need to be provided with timely advisories through SMS or WhatsApp messages about measures to be taken for COVID-19, he has said.“Wherever soil sampling couldn’t be done, fertiliser recommendations could be given based on soil health cards, history of soil fertility, or soil fertility maps of the area. Local Krishi Vigyan Kendras can be roped in for trails where experimental farms are far away,” he has said.To tackle unavailability of fertilisers due to lockdown, Dey has said, fertilizer management techniques should be used and fertilizer contingency plans for local conditions and adoption of drip fertigation should also be followed.Direct marketing of farm produce, especially perishable vegetables and fruits, should also be looked into, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-university-explores-ways-to-keep-rd-alive/articleshow/75512488.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Eight SRPF jawans, police constable test +ve for virus||Pune: Eight jawans of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) from Daund, who were posted in Mumbai for bandobast duty, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. A senior SRPF officer told TOI that the company comprising 110 jawans had returned to Daund from Mumbai on April 16 and were sent to a quarantine facility for 14 days. A medical team collected their swabs for testing and the results received on Friday stated that eight of them had tested positive for the virus. The eight jawans were then shifted to a hospital in Pune for further treatment. The jawans who tested positive for the virus are healthy and are not showing any symptoms for Covid-19, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-srpf-jawans-police-constable-test-ve-for-virus/articleshow/75513021.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Part-time special teachers seek salary for May||COIMBATORE: Part-time special teachers of government schools who teach sports, art, computer operations and tailoring, among other subjects, have sought May’s salary. State vice-president of the Tamil Nadu Part-time Special Teachers Association T Raja Devakanth said they were working part-time since 2012. “There are 12,500 part-time teachers who are being paid Rs 7,700 per month. Usually, they are not paid for May as schools remain closed. They used to find other part-time work to earn some money in May. But this year, it is not an option due to the lockdown. So, the state should pay them on compassionate grounds,” he said. “While the teachers started out with Rs 5,000 per month, they were given a hike of Rs 2,000 in 2014. While the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) gives them 10% hike every year, only in 2016, after representations, they were given a hike of Rs 700 by the state,” said Devkanth. The association has sent representations in this regard to the chief minister and the school education minister. Other teachers associations, such as the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Association, have also raised the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/part-time-spl-teachers-seek-salary-for-may/articleshow/75512479.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Indore||Over 7000 labourers block highway at MP-Maha border, seek passage to UP||Barwani: Over 7000 labourers have blocked national highway at Maharastra-MP border in Barwani seeking entry in the state for safe passage to UP. Barwani district administration on Saturday stopped workers coming from Maharashtra from entering Madhya Pradesh after Uttar Pradesh government sealed borders with MP. On Saturday night, hundreds of vehicles have lined up on both sides due to workers. Barwani superintendent of police DR Tenivar said that more than 1000 workers gathered on the border of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were screened on April 30 as per instructions of government and were sent to Uttar Pradesh in 250 vehicles. But due to sealing of borders of Uttar Pradesh, they are not able to enter UP and are currently forced to stand there. According to instructions of Madhya Pradesh government, workers trying to enter Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra via Agra Mumbai National Highway have been stopped on Saturday at checkpoint at Bijasan. The SP said that about 7000 workers have gathered at the border and they have started a drive (high way blockage) on National Highway from 8:00 pm. He said that despite extension of lockdown, labourers from different parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra are flowing and gathering on border of Madhya Pradesh on two-wheelers, bicycles and other vehicles and even on foot along Agra-Mumbai National Highway. As they aren't stopped in Maharashtra, panic has been created at MP border. He said that 90% workers are from Uttar Pradesh. Due to closure of Uttar Pradesh border, it is no longer possible to send them to destination by vehicles. SDOP Sendhwa Tarunendra Singh Baghel and town inspector, VDS Parihar patrolling along with hundreds of police men at Bijasan, located on Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra border, said that due to lack of adequate food in different parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra and fear of coronavirus infection, thousands of labourers are entering MP border since last one month for going to their respective states. Earlier, according to the instructions of the government, they were being held at Shelter House in Barwani district, but recently after the decision of Centre, they were being screened and allowed to go ahead. On Saturday, Barwani's additional superintendent of police Sunita Rawat and additional collector Rekha Rathore also took stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/over-7000-labourers-block-highway-at-mp-maha-border-seek-passage-to-up/articleshow/75512478.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chennai||One fireman, five more cops test coronavirus positive in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Five more police personnel in the city, including two women officials, were admitted to Omandurar Government Hospital and Stanley Hospital on Saturday after they tested positive for Covid-19. This apart, six policemen and four other officers from a station and two personnel from another station were also admitted to various hospitals in the city. The two women officials, include a constable who recently delivered a baby. She had reportedly come in contact with a 55-year old sub-inspector who tested positive on April 30. The other policewoman is an armed reserve constable. Two more special branch CID personnel tested positive. The fifth official is a constable. Also, a 24-year-old fire and rescue personnel tested positive. After two state intelligence officers tested positive, the state intelligence office was shut down temporarily and disinfected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-fireman-5-morecops-test-positive/articleshow/75512493.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Don’t cross district, state lines sans passes: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While three trains will be leaving from Gujarat, two from Ahmedabad to Agra and one from Surat to Odisha with migrant labourers, DGP Gujarat Shivanand Jha has warned people not to cross district and state borders without following the central guidelines. Jha said people caught at borders without proper passes will be booked and sent back after medical check-up. Jha added that for travel to UP and Odisha, first preference will be given to those migrant labourers who had been staying in shelter homes set up by the state government. The rest will be allowed to leave in stages. Medical tests will be conducted before any migrant labourer is allowed to board a train. “Nodal officers have been appointed by the government for overseeing these processes,” Jha said. Speaking about red, orange and green zones, Jha said that red zones will be monitored more closely than others. “The red zones will be condoned off so that people from red zones cannot go to orange or green zones,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dont-cross-district-state-lines-sans-passes/articleshow/75514770.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Returnees under quarantine to have their hand stamped||Coimbatore: Those coming from outside the district will be stamped ‘home quarantined’ on the hand with indelible ink at the check posts, collector K Rajamani said on Saturday.“To control the spread of Covid-19, the district administration has decided to quarantine those coming from other districts and states to Coimbatore. They will be stamped on their hand and will be forced into quarantine at home for 14 days. Notices will be pasted at their houses. They should not step out of their houses during the period,” he said after a meeting with all department officials at the collectorate.Those who have corona symptoms will be stopped at the check posts and kept under quarantine at private monitoring centres, Rajamani said. “They will undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction test and will be set free only if the result is negative. Those who found wandering will be booked under the disaster management act for violating the prohibitory orders. Those who come from other districts and states should inform the district administration. Otherwise, legal action will be taken against them.”“We have decided to intensify vehicle checks at the 14 inter-state border check posts and 11 district check posts at Odanthurai, Chinnakallipatti, Chellappampalayam, Ambothi, Kanjapalli, Karumathampatti, Thekkalur, Kangeyampalayam, Gomangalam, Kamanaickenpalayam and Reddiyarmadar. Police, health department and revenue department staff will be deployed round-the-clock at the check posts,” the collector said.As the lockdown has been extended till May 17, shops that are selling essential commodities will be allowed to function from 6am to 5pm, Rajamani said.Corporation commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, superintendent of police Sujit Kumar, corporation deputy commissioner Prasanna Ramasamy, district revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan, Pollachi sub-collector Vaithyanathan, deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Balaji Saravanan and health department officials attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/returnees-under-quarantine-to-have-their-hand-stamped/articleshow/75512514.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Fresh coronavirus case recorded after 8 days||Coimbatore: A day after the district was re-designated as an orange zone and removed from the red zone list, a Kavundampalayam resident tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.The patient, a 44-year-old man, was suffering from acute myeloid leukemia and had travelled to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai for cancer treatment on Thursday. The PCR-antigen test conducted before starting treatment found him positive for coronavirus.Since authorities deduced that he must have been infected in Coimbatore, the case was added to the district’s list.The patient, who has been suffering from leukemia since last June, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital last week after low blood count and had undergone test before blood transfusion. Public health department authorities have disinfected the ward where the patient was admitted and are preparing a list of the staff and patients who came in contact with him, his family members and neighbours. “We have asked the dean to give us a list of all the doctors, nurses, paramedics and conservancy staff who visited and worked in that ward. We have identified 54 contacts of the patient within CMCH and have tested 10 of them so far. All of them tested negative. 44 people will be tested on Sunday, including his family and neighbours in Kavundampalayam. Three other patients and their attenders are being traced,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar.The patient’s wife told TOI that the family could have avoided the Chennai trip if CMCH authorities had checked him before referring him to the Chennai hospital. “Though my husband has no symptoms, they’re saying his chances of dying due to it are high.”Meanwhile, the health department has isolated a family of three, a man, his wife and child, residing in K K Pudur, after Covid-19 tests were found inconclusive. The authorities are tracing their contacts and making the street and neighbouring areas a containment zone. The results of the trio are expected to be declared on Sunday.“The family had come to Coimbatore from Malappuram in Kerala on March 23 for vacations. The man runs some shops in K K Pudur. They had applied for pass to travel to Kerala at the collectorate a few days ago and were asked to produce Covid-19 negative certificates. The tests were inconclusive. None of them have any symptoms,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fresh-coronavirus-case-recorded-after-8-days/articleshow/75512520.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: ICMR & disease control body given different corona data||INDORE: There has been a difference of over 300 Covid-19 cases reported from Madhya Pradesh to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) till April 26 morning. The major difference in figures has been because of anomalies in number of Covid-19 positive cases in Indore, Bhopal and Hoshangabad. The difference in figures came to fore through presentation in meeting of a cabinet secretary of Union government held in last week of April for reviewing the critical care facilities in districts across the country. Principal secretary medical education and member of state Covid-19 task force Sanjay Shukla said, “We are aware about the difference in figures of positive cases in state reported to NCDC and ICMR.” The different figures were reported due to clerical mistakes as there are two wings in the state to report to ICMR and to NCDC. There is one Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) wing in every district, which directly reports to NCDC about the figures, said Shukla. The other directly reports to ICMR. Hence the difference arises. But, we have informed the Union government about it and updating the figures, said Shukla. Difference was majorly because of Indore, Bhopal and Hoshangabad districts. The rest were minor ones and some were updated. The rest will be updated, added Shukla. There were 1650 positive Covid-19 cases and 103 deaths in the state, as declared by state health bulletin. When further enquired about reporting to ICMR and NCDC with district health officials it came to fore that IDSP reports to NCDC as well as ICMR. There is a huge backlog of data to be updated with ICMR because of lack of data entry operator in district, said CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia. Moreover, every virology lab across the country involved in testing of Covid-19, reports directly to ICMR about the positive and negative cases. Positive cases results were updated with ICMR in real time from lab because it is cross checked before being declared, said an official involved in process of virology lab of MGM. However, the negative samples data is also updated but as it is very exhausting process and there are only four operators at the medical college lab, there is a pendency of such data to be uploaded on ICMR portal, added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/icmr-disease-control-body-given-different-corona-data/articleshow/75512500.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Majority of Covid-19 cases restricted to five wards, seven civic wards share only 10% burden||PUNE: At 151 cases, seven of the total 15 wards in the city have accounted for just 9.4% of the city’s Covid-19 burden, restricting most of the patients to five wards even as the case count in PMC limits soared past 1,600-mark on Friday. The least-affected wards include Aundh-Baner, Kothurd-Bavdhan, Warje, Sinhagad Road, Kondhwa-Yevlewadi, Ahmednagar Road-Wadgaonsheri and Hadapsar-Mundhwa. All these wards are spread in the city’s outskirts, barring some like Sinhagad Road that are closer to the core city pockets. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has divided the city in 15 civic wards, which means remaining 90% of the Covid-19 cases have been reported from other eight pockets, including five worst-affected wards from Pune’s central areas. Going by the geographical directions, Pune’s entire western region has reported a few cases so far. Besides, the areas in the south and east have also not recorded much of an increase in cases till now, the wardwise analysis showed. Three wards that constitute the western region have reported just 16 cases collectively, with Kothrud-Bavdhan pocket recording lowest three cases till Friday. The areas under Aundh-Baner and Warje-Karvenagar ward offices have four and nine cases, respectively. From the east region, Ahmednagar Road-Wadgaonasheri ward is the only area that has been able to contain the positive cases to 42 (see box), as against neighbouring Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori and Dhole Patil Road pockets, which reported 172 and 246 cases, respectively, till Friday. Sources from the civic administration said the seven wards with few cases had less number of slum pockets or congested areas, with a majority of the population residing in housing complexes. On the contrary, the central parts of the city, accounting for more than 70% of the total positive cases, had huge slum pockets, narrow roads and congested localities, making social distancing difficult to follow, the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/majority-of-covid-19-cases-restricted-to-five-wards-7-civic-wards-share-only-10-burden/articleshow/75513027.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 3, 2020||Indore||Corrugated boxes to get costlier by 15%, packaging woes for cos||Indore: A rise in price of paper due to short supply and restricted imports is seen pushing up cost of corrugated boxes and packaging materials, raising worries among industrialists. Prices of corrugated boxes and packaging materials are estimated to jump by around 15 per cent raising worries among industrialists already baffled due to crippling business activity and global slump in demand. Prices for paper made from waste or recovered paper used by packaging materials and corrugated boxes have gone up by Rs 5 per kg, according to the association of paper traders in Indore. Import restrictions amid lockdown and shutting of paper mills in the home country has raised prices of paper in the local market. Paper Traders Association president Rajendra Mittal said, “Paper supplies have dropped suddenly due to less imports coming from the United States and United Kingdom. Besides, major mills operating in the country are shut which has led to a decline in supplies.” Traders said, with industries resuming operations gradually, demand of paper will increase in the coming weeks. A corrugated box manufacturer Ghanshyam Singh Raghuwanshi said, “Cost of corrugated boxes are anticipated to rise by around 15 to 18 per cent because raw material prices have gone up. The price hike will be passed on because the hike is steep.” Manufacturers of corrugated boxes said there is no option of absorbing the rise because industry is already working on half the capacity and facing a crunch of manpower. Another executive from a leading packaging firm at Pithampur wishing anonymity said, “Our cost of operations have gone up due to a sharp increase in prices of paper. We are anticipating an overall increase of 15 per cent on packaging due to higher raw material prices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corrugated-boxes-to-get-costlier-by-15-packaging-woes-for-cos/articleshow/75512524.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Surat||Valsad records sixth case, 44-year-old man infected||Surat: A 44-year-old man from Balitha of Vapi was found to be infected with coronavirus and admitted to Valsad Civil Hospital on Saturday. Tasel Ehmad Chaudhary, an automobile garage owner, is sixth person to test positive for Covid-19 in Valsad district. He been quarantined in an isolation ward of the hospital and his treatment begun. Chaudhary had gone to Mumbai for treatment of his wife on April 11. "She was suffering from cancer and died the same day when they reached Mumbai,” said a health officer in Valsad. Chaudhary stayed at a relative’s place and returned to Vapi on Friday morning. He developed symptoms of coronavirus infection in the evening and had himself approached the hospital for testing."Samples of two relatives of Chaudhary, who accompanied him, are being tested. They are under quarantine. We are identifying those who came in touch with Chaudhary to collect their samples," the health officer added.Meanwhile, Yash Patel, 22, a Gram Rakshak Dal jawan of Dungri village, was discharged from Valsad Civil Hospital. Sagar Mangela, 30, a fisherman from Dehri in Umargam taluka, had also tested negative for third time, but he will be discharged on Sunday.Currently, Lila Patel, 27, and Vandana Jadav, 32, women from Kelvani village in Dharampur taluka, are under treatment. Sufiyan Quadri, 21, a resident of Dharampur, who was suffering from brain tumour, died due to multiple illnesses on April 21. He died a few hours after he tested positive for coronavirus in New Civil Hospital, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-records-sixth-case-44-year-old-man-infected/articleshow/75511248.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Affair ends in suicide, bodies found in forest||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old married woman, who went missing nearly a month ago, and her alleged lover were found dead in the forest in Ananthagiri in Vikarabad district on Saturday. Though the woman went missing in the first week of April, their bodies were found hanging from a tree now. Based on the information given by villagers of Kerelly, a Dharur police team went to the location on Saturday and found the bodies, with skeletal remains left after animals reportedly mauled their bodies, Vikarabad police said. Police found a motorcycle and a purse near the bodies. Using the registration number of the bike, police contacted the owner, who confirmed that one of his family members, Mahender, 28, went missing and took his vehicle. On the information given by Mahender’s family, police came to know that one 23-year-old Shiva Leela of Kotpally, a daily-wage worker, was also missing and her family members had lodged a missing complaint on April 6. “As per the missing complaint lodged by Shiva Leela’s family, they suspected the hand of mason Mahender in her disappearance,’’ Vikarabad SP Narayana told TOI. Shiva Leela, who had married five years ago, met Mahender, also married with children, two years ago at a construction site and police suspect that the couple were in a relationship. When police tired to track them using their mobile phones, their location was zeroed in to a point, just a kilometre away from Kerelly. Police then suspected that the couple might have destroyed their mobile phone SIMs to avoid detection. “It appears that on April 6 itself, the couple had hanged themselves using her chunni. Based on the articles found at the the scene of offence, we suspect that they came fully prepared and we recovered biscuits, milk and a few other things,’’ police said. Since the lockdown has been in place, the villagers did not venture into the interior areas of the forest in the last one month. With relaxations given in the past few days, a herdsman went inside the forest on Friday and saw the bodies and told the local villagers, who in turn alerted the district police, and recovered the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/affair-ends-in-suicide-bodies-found-in-forest/articleshow/75512530.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports one death, 17 fresh positive Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: With Telangana again reporting less than 20 fresh cases on Saturday, the focus of the state government is slowly shifting towards steps needed to ease the lockdown and revive select sectors of the economy after May 7. Telangana reported 17 new cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 1,061. All the cases came from Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts. The state now has 533 active cases while 499 people have so far been discharged. Also, one more person died in the state, taking the toll to 29. During the day, state health minister Eatala Rajender held a meeting with senior officials on the way ahead after some relaxations are given post May 7. The focus was on government hospitals and private clinics resuming their out-patient wings. Sources said guidelines will be issued on ensuring that enough precautions are taken at the clinics so that they don’t become virus hotspots. If things go well, the government may even consider allowing elective surgeries. At the same time, chief secretary Somesh Kumar held a tele-conference with real estate developers and director general of police Mahender Reddy along with other officials on the steps to be taken in the wake of construction activity being given the green signal to start work. Sources said that the state government is hoping that this will ensure many of the migrant workers don’t return home and stay back in the state. The chief secretary assured that the developers that the state government will give them all the support needed to start work. He urged the builders to instill confidence among the workers, particularly migrant workers through counselling and extending incentives, facilities, medical care. All out efforts should made so that labourers feel comfortable, Kumar said at the meeting. He told the developers that the state government would take steps to ensure smooth supply of steel, cement, sand, bricks and other raw material. The DGP said that smooth movement of construction goods vehicles would be ensured through the three police commissionerates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-one-death-17-fresh-ve-cases/articleshow/75512528.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Trader booked for spreading rumour on ex-serviceman testing Covid-19 positive in Pune||PUNE: A small-time trader was booked on Friday for spreading rumour that an ex-serviceman had tested positive for coronavirus at Sai Vihar society at Kalepadal around 7.30am. The Wanowrie police said the ex-serviceman, Uttamrao Boyne (48), an ambulance driver at present, and his wife were standing outside their home when the former complained of hypertension and blood sugar-level drop. His wife rushed him to a hospital for treatment. The trader saw the couple leaving for hospital and spread the rumour that Uttamrao tested positive for coronavirus, the police said. Sub-inspector Sandeep Warpade from the Wanowrie police said, “The couple on reaching home learnt from the neighbours that the trader had spread the false news that Uttamrao had tested Covid-19 positive.” He said, “The angry couple confronted the suspect and sought reasons for defaming them over the issue. The suspect, in no mood to listen, picked up a dispute and hurled abuses at them.” The sub-inspector said, “After the dispute between the two parties heat up, the suspect picked up a stone for hitting Uttamrao. He missed the target and the stone hit Uttamrao’s wife on her head. The suspect then pushed her aside and took to heels.” Uttamrao’s wife later lodged an FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. “We have served a notice under Section 141 (1) [3] of the Criminal Procedure Code on the businessman, asking him to join in the investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trader-booked-for-spreading-rumour-on-ex-serviceman-testing-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75513031.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 3, 2020||Surat||Truck driver infected in Bharuch||Surat: A 48-year-old truck driver on way to Vapi from Ahmedabad tested positive for Covid-19 in Bharuch on Saturday. With this, total positive cases in Bharuch reached 280.Officials stated that Hansnath Chaudhary, 48, had visited private hospital in Ankleshwar. Meanwhile, the first Covid-19 positive patient of Navsari, Dinesh Halpati, 42, a resident of Hansapore village in Navsari’s Jalalpore taluka, was discharged from hospital on Saturday.Chief district health officer (CDHO), DH Bhavsar said, “Halpati was the first Covid-19 positive case in Navsari. He was detected positive for the infection on April 21. In the last two reports, he has tested negative and was discharged from the hospital. Two more patients have been discharged, while five patients are still undergoing treatment.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/truck-driver-infected-in-bharuch/articleshow/75511265.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Shops in Maval, Mulshi to stay open for 4 hours||Pimpri Chinchwad: Shops selling essential commodities will stay open only between 9am and 1pm in Maval and Mulshi talukas, including Lonavla, Talegaon and Vadgaon Maval, to check Covid-19 spread. The order was issued by the sub-divisional officer (SDO) Maval-Mulshi, Sandesh Shirke, on April 30. These restrictions will not be applicable to agricultural work, milk transport and chemist shops. The timing for door-to-door delivery is from 6am to 9am. Distribution of ration goods through ration shops will be conducted as per the timings fixed by government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-in-maval-mulshi-to-stay-open-for-4-hours/articleshow/75513033.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Five arrested for attempting to kill man in Nagarkurnool||HYDERABAD: Days after a man attempted to kill his elder brother following a land dispute in Thoodkurthy village of Nagarkurnool district, five persons were arrested on Friday in connection with the incident. The offenders were booked for attempt to murder. The victim, Gunti Thirupathiah (55), was shifted to hospital for treatment. The siblings, Gunti Thirupathiah and Gunti Kurmaiah (45), had been fighting over land. rnool SI Madhav Reddy. At around 5 pm, the accused, Kurmaiah and his wife Shaishamma, daughter, and two sons went to the victim’s house. They attacked Thirupathiah, his wife and son and tied up Thirupathiah, police said. Thirupathiah’s son Madhu recorded a video of the incident. “The victim sustained multiple injuries. The sarpanch’s husband, Srinivas, was found to be involved in encouraging the accused and deleting the video and photos from the victim’s phone. He was booked,” police said. Kurmaiah and four of his family were booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-arrested-for-attempting-to-kill-man-in-nagarkurnool/articleshow/75512529.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bihar couple suicide: Cops suspect marital dispute||BENGALURU: The bodies of a Bihar couple, who allegedly committed suicide on Friday, were cremated in the presence of just two family members on Saturday. On Friday night, Rahul, 30 and his wife Rani, 30, residents of Dayananda Road, were found dead in their house. While Rani was found hanging, Rahul had allegedly consumed poison. Police said the couple’s was an inter-religious marriage and Rani had changed her name after the wedding. A probe revealed the couple had tied the knot against their families’ will. They were working in a garment shop in the city. Though the reason behind the suicides is yet to be ascertained, police suspect it was because of a marital dispute. Rani’s younger brother Ahmed Raphal, who works in a shop in Commercial Street visited the police station to identify the bodies. Rahul’s father, who runs a chat shop near KR Market, took the bodies for cremation. The other family members of the couple live in Bihar. Police said both the families were on good terms and Rani’s mother had spoken to her even on Friday morning. “On Friday, the couple had cooked chicken curry and rice. The shop owner, from where Rahul had purchased the chicken in the morning, said the couple was on good terms. There were no signs of a scuffle inside the house,” an investigating officer told STOI, adding that they did not find any death note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bihar-couple-suicide-cops-suspect-marital-dispute/articleshow/75512534.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Prohibitory order issued on festive celebration gatherings||Pune: The Pune police on Saturday issued an order prohibiting celebratory gatherings between May 5 and 18 in view of festivals during the period. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve issued the order under sections 37 (1), (3) and (4) of the Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prohibitory-order-issued-on-festive-celebration-gatherings/articleshow/75513035.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders RPF to compensate and reinstate sub-inspector||Ahmedabad: Perturbed with the irregularities in a disciplinary proceeding by the Railway Protection Force (RPF), the Gujarat high court has ordered it to pay compensation of Rs 5 lakh to a sub-inspector, who was victimized and dismissed from the job on frivolous allegations of extorting money from youths smoking in train, and those travelling in reserved coaches without valid tickets.Besides the compensation, the HC has ordered the RPF to reinstate sub-inspector Satish Agnihotri in his job. He has earned cash prizes five times for his meritorious service including that of rescuing a kidnapped girl and nabbing dacoits.The case involved Agnihotri, a sub-inspector with the RPF, who was charged for extortion of two youths, who were travelling without valid tickets and were found smoking on Awadh Express in 2015. His subordinate reported about Agnihotri’s alleged misconduct stating that he had extorted Rs 2,200 from two youths, but because of his intervention returned Rs 2,000. Agnihotri claimed that he had slapped a penalty of Rs 200 each on the youths for smoking on the train.After the complaint, an inquiry took place in which the ‘whistleblower’ subordinate was found to be acting maliciously against Agnihotri, and the inquiry officer was also found to be forging signature. The inquiry got over and Agnihotri was given a pink slip after being pronounced guilty of the misconduct. He approached the HC last year through advocate Kiran Shah, who in detail portrayed how Agnihotri had been targeted and victimized.After hearing the case, the HC said, “The case at hand before the court is such that has pricked the conscience of the court and has left the court terribly perturbed and the factual matrix is such that warrants interference of the court in order to prevent a gross miscarriage of justice.”The HC quashed the dismissal order and inquiry outcome on various technical grounds including that the inquiry officer himself was a presenter of the case and the disciplinary authority was an officer who was not competent to take action. The HC found the entire inquiry process malafide and ordered compensation. In another case, the HC quashed departmental action against Agnihotri for alleged misbehaviour with passengers in a coach reserved for women. There was no evidence against him, but major penalty had been awarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-rpf-to-compensate-and-reinstate-sub-inspector/articleshow/75512535.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||Man booked for impersonating as PM and posting fake news||Lucknow: A man was booked for uploading the prime minister’s photo on his twitter profile with a post that government did not declare Mahatma Gandhi as father of the nation. This was among three FIRs lodged at Mahanagar police station on Saturday over fake or objectionable social media posts. Quarantine centres lacked basic facilities in PM’s constituency Varanasi was another post that drew attention of cyber sleuths and a case was booked for violation of IT Act. Another case was registered for circulation of fake news that police assaulted a minor who tested positive for coronavirus after returning to Meerut from Nizamuddin markaz. The accused were booked for spreading rumours. In the first case, an FIR was lodged against an unidentified person for posting from his twitter handle @kcjpr which had PM’s picture in its profile. The post stated the government did not declare Gandhi as father of the nation, but it was imposed on citizens. In true sense, real fathers of the nation include APJ Abdul Kalam, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri, it added. Sub-inspector Ramnaval Yadav said the man was spreading wrong message by impersonating as the Prime Minister. The second case was against a person with username Sanjay Khatane, who claimed that quarantine centres in PMs’ constituency Varanasi lacked basic facilities. An unidentified man was booked for posting fake news from a twitter handle named after a political party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-booked-for-impersonating-as-pm-and-posting-fake-news/articleshow/75512887.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||May becomes month of relief as countries prepare to ease curbs||PUNE: Worldwide, governments armed with improved knowledge of Covid-19, are readying roadmaps this month to end lockdowns. China, with restrictions that started as early as February, has been one of the first out of the gates. “People are going back to work and universities,” says ‘Lu’, a schoolteacher based out of Hangzhou, the capital city of Zhejiang province. It’s about an hour from Beijing by high-speed rail. “Everyone has masks on; trains are still limited to some stations and even when you are taking the train, passengers have been spaced out. The mood is upbeat but some social distancing is expected to stay on.” In Britain, residents eagerly await relief. “A second review of the lockdown, which began on March 23, is on May 7,” says Chaitali Sarker, a journalist based in London. “The government needs to be confident the rate of infection is at manageable levels before it moves to ease curbs. At present, the RO (reproductive rate) is believed to be around one. We are told it needs to be well below that figure to be ‘manageable’.” Nearly 9,000 km away, Japan — with nearly 14,000 cases and 455 deaths as of May 2 — is cautious. “We go for short walks near our homes. At check-out counters, cashiers stand behind plastic screens with gloves and masks. The queues here have tape markings for social distancing guidelines,” says Meghana Kurup-Menon, a homemaker in Tokyo. “The state of emergency across Japan went into effect on April 8. It’s on until May 6, but I think it could get extended for a month. Many stores are shut or have reduced operational hours. Public transport is still running but there has been a big drop in ridership.” In Italy, starting May 4, residents will be allowed to step out for morning runs and social visits. The country that has had nearly 28,000 deaths even plans to open museums by May 18 (but schools are expected to stay shut until early September). A researcher, who is part of a team investigating the virus, says he hopes people “don’t go crazy” with the newly announced freedoms. Last week, Italy reported its lowest daily death count of 269 — down from nearly 900 in late March. “Social distancing reduced Italy’s numbers,” says the virologist. “There is finally a glimmer of hope. We just have to be careful because if we hit a peak again, the country’s health infrastructure will be in serious trouble. We will not completely open in May, but we’re taking the first steps.” Social discipline has played a vital role in countries like New Zealand where, according to residents, people diligently obeyed rules. The country has been under a lockdown since March 26. “We took walks every day but had to strictly keep a distance of two metres from each other. People have been extremely good at following this. We’re now in level 3 and queues outside KFC and other fast food eateries have been unbelievable. Wearing a mask is not compulsory,” says Shriya Bhagwat, a communications specialist in Auckland. New Zealand has had a successfull campain against Covid-19. A population of nearly 4.8 million people has had 20 deaths and just over 1,400 positive cases. Of course, its isolation played a role. “But there was a massive public health campaign that rolled out via TV and the Internet. The consistent messaging was amplified by local councils. It reached everyone via email or social media,” adds Bhagwat. It’s this precise messaging that citizens insist will be the game-changer once curbs lift. In Singapore, where authorities relaxed curbs on Saturday, citizens say open communication lines have instilled confidence in the system. “The government has channels on WhatsApp and Telegram for daily updates. The prime minister regularly addresses the nation and hotlines across agencies have been established for citizen queries,” says Kashmira, an entrepreneur. “The lockdown — called ‘circuit breaker’ — set in with minimal confusion on April 7. Here, it is compulsory for everyone to wear masks. But children below the age of two have been exempted,” she adds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-may-hopes-to-restart-a-year-on-pause/articleshow/75513038.cms||Swatee Kher
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Exports of dyes and chemicals decline by 30% in March||Ahmedabad: Even as industries in Gujarat operated in full swing for about 20 days in March, the exports of dyes and chemicals dropped significantly in the month. Due to the sudden lockdown brought about by the global pandemic, export shipments of dyes, chemicals and intermediates were stalled, with exports of dyes and chemicals taking a hit. According to data published by Chemical Exports Promotion Council (Chemexcil), exports declined by 30% in March 2020 pan India from $279.3 million to $195 million. Gujarat also took a similar hit in exports, according to Chemexcil, as it accounts for some 75% of the total production and exports of dyes and intermediates from India.Explaining the scenario, Bhupendra Patel, chairman – Gujarat region, Chemexcil, said, “Factories were operational till March 21 and from March 22 onwards, when the Janata Curfew was announced, factories were shut. Even though the shipments were ready, they could not be exported due to the lockdown. This adversely impacted export commitments of industries.”Gujarat exports a range of reactive dyes, direct dyes, disperse dyes, acid dyes and intermediates to several countries in the Europe. That apart, dyes and intermediates are also exported to US, Turkey, Bangladesh, China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Japan and Brazil, among others. Patel said that a few export shipments were also held up at ports due to the lockdown imposed in other countries.“The decline in exports has dented the revenues of many manufacturing units, whose payments will get held up due to the delay in shipments,” said Patel.A majority of manufacturing units for dyes and chemicals are concentrated in Vatva and Odhav in Ahmedabad; in addition to Padra and Nandesari near Vadodara; Ankleshwar, Surat and Vapi.With units remaining shut through the greater part of April as well, exports of dyes and chemicals are expected to decline by 80%. “This is a clear loss of revenue. With some units reopening in the last week of April, only pending export shipments that were already manufactured in March, have been cleared. Due to labourer, transport and other issues, manufacturing units have hardly been able to resume production,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA).In fact, industry players also said that a recessionary trend in other countries is also impacting their order books, due to which manufacturers in Gujarat are either facing renegotiation of orders at a lesser price or even cancellation. “Roughly 40% export orders are getting cancelled. As a result of this, industries will be severely short of working capital as revenues are expected to shrink by 60%,” Parikh further explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exports-of-dyes-and-chemicals-decline-by-30-in-march/articleshow/75512540.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Teachers face lewd comments, stalking during online classes||LUCKNOW: Inappropriate comments bordering on obscenity and hooting by students during live-streaming of lessons are posing a big challenge to online classes held by city schools to circumvent loss of academic sessions due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown. Also, online stalking and harassment by some parents is another area of concern. Citing disciplinary issues, many teachers were forced to temporarily black out screens and seek redressal from school brass. A school in Hazratganj and another in Gomtinagar suspended classes for a day, tracked down and blocked an unruly student before resuming lectures. Six other schools on Sitapur Road, LDA Colony, Kanpur Road, Munshipulia, Indiranagar and Aliganj too blocked rowdy elements before switching over to new video conferencing tools with multiple screens and tracking features to monitor students. A few days ago, a teacher of a prominent school in Gomitnagar had to quit midway when a class 11 male student asked her to halt the online lecture as he wanted to go to the loo. When she asked the student to identify himself, he passed lewd remarks. This unsavoury incident was shared on a common WhatsApp group of principals and teachers, following which many teachers shared similar experiences. An English teacher shared the audio of a class 5 student hurling expletives when asked to write an essay. Class 9 students of another prominent school in LDA Colony were heard commenting on casual wear of girls during streaming of a Hindi lesson. Principal of Hoerner College Mala Mehra condemned these incidents, saying such acts of indecency violate teachers’ sensibilities. Principal of St Teresa College Geetika Kapoor said, “While teachers are working tirelessly to meet academic targets, parents should keep vigil on their children’s behaviour.” Parents too are not off the hook. A teacher of a prominent school on Kanpur Road shared screenshots of how a student’s father texted her and made video calls at odd hours. Similarly, two teachers shared the trauma of online stalking by fathers of two students. Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) has asked parents to be present with their wards when virtual classes are held and ensure they wear school uniform. UPSA president Anil Agarwal said, “Teachers are traumatized and it’s shocking that parents are unaware of what their children are doing at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teachers-face-lewd-comments-stalking-during-online-classes/articleshow/75512888.cms||Mohita Tewari
May 3, 2020||Pune||Six pvt ambulances handed over to district administration||Pune: Six large private ambulances, belonging to members of the Pune Ambulance Owners’ Association, were handed over to the district administration on Saturday morning.Twenty ambulance owners met at Swargate and drove to the collector’s office to hand over the vehicle. Last week, the district administration had written to private ambulance owners on the need for ambulances during the pandemic. “We were told that the ambulances will be used as and when the need arises. On Friday, we were asked to hand over 20 ambulances,” Gopal Jhambe, secretary of the association, said.Jhambe said of the 20 ambulances, they were able to hand over only six as the authorities were awaiting clearance to take over beds in a private hospital. “We were told to leave six large ambulances behind. They said the remaining 14 will be called for in another day or two,” he said, adding that the administration will take possession of ambulances in batches of 20.According to Jhambe, there are close to 550 private ambulances in Pune district, most of which are likely to be acquired in the coming days. “We are coordinating with the tehsildar, who said the ambulance drivers will be pressed into service if they are willing to ply, else the administration will arrange drivers,” Jhambe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-pvt-ambulances-handed-over-to-district-administration/articleshow/75513040.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors help bust Covid-19 last rites myth||PUNE: The Poona Citizen Doctors Forum has cautioned against myths and misinformations surrounding last rites of Covid-19 victims. Members of the forum said panic, coupled with false information, was preventing relatives from carrying out rituals. Arun Gadre, a member, said there have been several reports from Pune of family members refusing to come forward to conduct last rites of loved ones. “In many instances, municipal staff had to finally cremate the deceased. People need to understand that there is no danger as long as the necessary precautions are in place,” Gadre said. The doctors' forum has drawn similarities with Covid-19 and the stigma that once surrounded those with HIV/AIDS. "There was a similar response to cremations of those who had died of HIV/AIDS 40 years ago. No one was ready to perform the rites. But the fear faded as awareness grew. One of our members, Vinay Kulkarni, who is also a member of the Prayas Health Group, worked on a similar situation for HIV/AIDS. After seeing the recent cases, we decided to create awareness again,” Gadre said. Another member of the forum, Anant Phadke, said, “Covid-19 is a respiratory disease and the virus spreads through respiratory droplets. This spread stops when a patient dies. The only safety concern is viruses present on the body surface and secretions. These viruses are not airborne and cannot spread on their own. One can wear gloves to avoid touching the body and secretions from the mouth and nose.” Sharda Bapat from the forum stated said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has already issued guidelines on measures to be taken while handing over bodies to relatives. “Hospitals have been advised to use 1% sodium hypochlorite or bleaching powder to sanitize the body, clothes, plastic bag and surroundings. After this, there is no risk for anyone with gloves who is travelling with the body or lifting the body. Other precautions include masks, vigorous hand washing and social distancing. People should also take a bath as soon as they return home,” Bapat said. Forum member Shriram Geet said, “Also remember that the virus cannot survive in the ashes after cremation or in the soil after burial. So there is no need to spray disinfectant on the ashes or site of burial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-help-bust-covid-19-last-rites-myth/articleshow/75513043.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Private colleges anticipate drop in enrolment of non-Karnataka students||BENGALURU: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have cast a shadow over the admission season, with private colleges in Karnataka anticipating a dip in the number of takers from other states. The institutions feel parents may be reluctant to send their kids to another state, which will entail travelling and staying in PG accommodations. “Apart from top engineering colleges in the state, management quota of private engineering colleges will definitely be affected. Parents of students from other states will not be keen on sending their children to distant places. That more seats will go abegging is a matter of grave concern,” said MK Panduranga Shetty, secretary, Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges Association (KUPECA). The managements will not ask for any fee hike this year, he confirmed. The decrease in spending power of parents is also worrisome. Since the fees for medical and dental seats have to be paid through bank, it would put pressure on many parents, point out experts. “Dental seats are expected to be the worst affected. The course is already at the receiving end, with undergraduate and some branches of postgraduate seats going unfilled. The recent fee hike in PG seats will also be a deterrent,” said Dr S Kumar, executive secretary, Comed-K Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka. Karnataka was one of the first in the country to privatise professional education, thus becoming a hub for higher education. “Fees in colleges will not increase this year. The government is also expected to provide more education loans to students. Students should seize this opportunity. However, those from other states may be reluctant to come as they will have to stay as paying guests. Colleges should arrange for good hostels maintaining hygiene and social-distancing norms so that parents feel secure,” opined MK Sridhar, a senior academician. Private universities in the city also raised a similar concern. “It’s definitely an issue, but we are optimistic the phase will end gradually and students will travel out of their states for studies,” said Christo V Joseph, director, strategy and planning, Garden City University. TOI had reported that engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu are fearing 20% dropout owing to job losses and salary cuts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-colleges-fear-drop-in-enrolment-of-non-ktaka-students/articleshow/75512567.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 3, 2020||Goa||‘One suicide every fifth day since Mar 22’||Panaji: Eight suicides have been reported during the lockdown in Goa and the state needs an action plan to address this, Goacan has said in a letter to the director of health services Dr Jose De Sa. Goacan convenor Roland Martins said that it is a matter of concern that between March 22 and April 30, there was one suicide every five days.These suicides were reported from Bicholim, Bardez, Salcete and Canacona, Martins said. The letter adds that after the lockdown ends, people will be worried about issues like loss of wages and job security. Goacan plans to study the circumstances of the eight suicides reported .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-suicide-every-fifth-day-since-mar-22/articleshow/75512889.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||15 fresh cases in two days take Lucknow’s Covid-19 tally to 233||LUCKNOW: Fresh cases of Covid-19 from four new localities on Saturday took the total number of city areas with at least one patient to 26 ever since the first case was reported on March 11. Authorities are worried not only because four cases have been reported from four new localities but also for the fact that they have not been able to trace the source of infection in these cases. With 15 new coronavirus positive cases on Friday and Saturday, the total number of patients in Lucknow has touched 233, of whom 77 have recovered and one has died. One of the patients tested positive on Saturday is from Rajasthan and had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. He was in quarantine at GCRC Institute. A 15-year-old boy from Sadar, quarantined at FI Medical College, also tested positive. “Eight patients reported on Saturday include a nurse from Khadgapur village in Gomtinagar Extension who works at a private hospital on Faizabad Road. The total number of health workers infected in the city has climbed to five,” an officer said. Two elderly patients, including one from Shravasti, under treatment in the same hospital had tested positive on April 24. They were shifted to SGPGIMS where one of them died during treatment. Dr Raj Gopal Reddy, medical superintendent of the hospital where the nurse works, said she was on leave since April 21. “The other patients included two from Top Khana Bazar and one each from Alambagh, Sarfarazganj and Khadra,” he added. “The new areas from where virus infection was found on Saturday are Khadgapur, Alambagh, Sarfarazganj and Khadra,” said Dr KP Tripathi, district infection disease unit in charge. The 27-year-old man is from Sarfarazganj. He had returned from Mumbai before lockdown. The 44-year-old woman found positive in Alambagh had also visited a private hospital with breathing problem. A 57-year-old man from Khadra was diagnosed with Covid-19 when he went to SGPGI for dialysis. Among seven Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, six were the contacts of KGMU nurse who was tested positive on April 26. So far, 14 of her contacts, including six family members, have been found positive. All of them are residents of Nakhas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-fresh-cases-in-two-days-take-citys-covid-tally-to-233/articleshow/75512892.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In death, 63-year-old gives new lease of life to three, including minor||NEW DELHI: Due to the Covid-19 crisis elective surgeries, including organ transplants, have been suspended in the country. But emergencies cannot wait. Recently, the National Organ and Tissue Transplantation Organisation (NOTTO) – nodal body for organ and tissue transplant in the country – gave permission to Max Saket and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) to conduct transplants on being told about three patients who would die without it. The donor was a 63-year-old man who had suffered from irreversible brain damage due to haemorrhage on April 18, at Max Saket. His family insisted on donating his organs so that someone could get a new lease of life. They patiently waited for the next couple of days while the hospital worked on obtaining special permissions for transplant. Also, the donor was tested for Covid-19 twice and when it was confirmed that he was not infected, organ retrieval was initiated. Both his kidneys and liver were retrieved and transplanted in three patients. The deceased was not fit for a heart or lung donation owning to his age. While the kidneys went to two women — Nisha (37) and Puneeta (55) — who were suffering from end-stage kidney failure, the liver was used to save the life of a 13-year-old girl. “The girl won’t have survived long without the transplant. Her parents were unable to donate part of their liver due to health issues,” Dr Vasanthi Ramesh, director of NOTTO, said. Apart from permission, another big challenge was to ensure safe surgery for the potential recipients. Doctors at both Max Saket and ILBS said they took special precaution — including wearing personal protective equipment — while operating on the patients. Anant Kumar, chairman, renal transplant and robotics at Max hospital said the surgeries were also difficult and tedious due to patient-related factors. “In one of the recipients, the arteries had become hard due to prolonged duration of renal disease and it was extremely difficult to join the donor’s kidney inside the recipient’s body. In the other patient, the bladder had shrunken significantly as she was on haemodialysis, so we had to carry out a special procedure to fix it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-death-63-yr-old-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-3-including-minor/articleshow/75512549.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Plagued by illness, 60-year-old leaps to death at Uppal||HYDERABAD: A 60-year-old private employee allegedly committed suicide by jumping off a four-storied building at Uppal on Saturday morning. He was reportedly suffering from health problems. However, police did not find a suicide note on his person. On Saturday, V Krishna Murthy, a resident of Ramanthapur who was working as a clerk for an advocate, was supposed to go to a doctor for a health check. At around 7am, he went to terrace of his four-storey building and jumped from there. He sustained a severe head injury and died on the spot. “He had been suffering from asthma and acidity-related issues for the past five years. His health had deteriorated in the past few days after he suffered breathlessness. He went to hospital and took medication too. However, he slipped into depression because of this,” Uppal inspector Ch Ranga Swamy said. Though initial reports suggested the victim took the extreme step fearing he had contracted Covid-19, police, however, found no suicide note suggesting it. “He did not have coronavirus symptoms. He was reportedly depressed about his health problems and the lockdown. Recently, he went to Fever Hospital for a check-up,” sub-inspector (SI) M Anjaiah said. He was scheduled for a follow-up check on Saturday, but ended his life. After the incident, a case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plagued-by-illness-60-yr-old-leaps-to-death/articleshow/75512542.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Citizens to conduct online survey on urban birds||Vadodara: With humans indoors for over a month, sightings of birds in urban areas have gone up in the city. In a bid to understand their habitat, a city-based environmental organization has initiated an online survey of birds’ nesting. It is a first-of-its-kind survey where citizens, especially schoolchildren, will upload information about the nests in their areas. “Due to lockdown, people are at home and have all the time to observe, click photos of birds and participate in our online survey. The participants have to simply observe their surroundings and see if they can locate nests of birds. If they spot any, they have to fill up our survey form,” said Hitarth Pandya, who runs Kids for Environmental Development Initiative (KEDI). “And those participating in the survey should observe the surroundings from their home. No one should flout lockdown rules,” Pandya added. The survey form has names and photos of nearly 30 urban birds, including Indian silverbill, magpie robin, tailor bird, laughing dove, house sparrow, brahminy starling, green bee-eater, rose-ringed parakeet and many others. KEDI took help of Dr Deepa Gavali, acting director of Gujarat Ecology Society, and Dr Jitendra Gavali, director of Community Science Centre, for initiating the study. \ “Once the survey is done, we will analyse the results. The idea is to find out presence of urban birds and which locality has which species of them. The study will help experts in future,” Pandya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/citizens-to-conduct-online-survey-on-urban-birds/articleshow/75512082.cms||Tushar Tere
May 3, 2020||Goa||Karnika crew tested for Covid, results tomorrow||Panaji: After spending over 40 days on board Karnika while in Indian waters, members of the ship’s crew were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday. The results are expected by Monday. On Monday, 93 crew members wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant asking him to let them be placed under home quarantine on arrival in Goa. They said they couldn’t afford the paid quarantine charges of Rs 3,000 a day. They also stated that they have been under quarantine for more than 40 days. “Our cruise ship has not had a single suspected case of Covid-19 on board till date, let alone a positive case, since the outbreak last year,” they wrote. “Moreover, no crew member (approximately 650 during operational voyages) on board the ship has shown any symptoms of the novel coronavirus from the time of its outbreak till date. A certificate fom our on-board doctor specially mentioning us 93 Goans was also enclosed in our earlier letter to you.” On Tuesday, Jalesh Cruises, owner and operator of Karnika, stated that the seaport public health office in Mumbai gave the crew their medical clearance. On March 31, crew members domiciled in Mumbai were permitted to disembark. Ports secretary P S Reddy said that although the government wrote to the company, it was yet to receive any confirmation from the company about its plans to disembark crew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnika-crew-tested-for-covid-results-tomorrow/articleshow/75512891.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Provide information of employees who are stranded outside Goa, companies told||Panaji: With movement of people across state borders permitted by the Centre, local industries have been asked to submit data on their employees who are stranded outside the state so that they can be allowed to return, the State Executive Committee (SEC) said. The SEC, headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, has asked the health department to develop a testing and quarantine protocol for those returning to Goa. Principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel has asked representatives of industries to collect and prioritise information on the employees who need to return from outside Goa. With some seafarers expected to arrive by sea at Mormugao Port Trust, the port is preparing standard operating protocols (SOP) to receive seafarers. The SEC said that MPT’s SOP needs to be aligned with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, the DG shipping’s SOP and the state government’s protocol. “The SEC advised secretary health to develop a protocol for Covid-19 testing and home quarantine for returnees, as their number would be large. The need was felt for a testing protocol for those arriving by train,” said an officer who was present at the meeting. Health secretary Nila Mohanan suggested that quarantine facilities should be identified in advance to avoid last minute confusion. The SEC asked the collectors in consultation with secretary health to put in place a mechanism for selection of quarantine facilities. The agricultural department informed that agricultural activities are normal and that 82% of harvesting is complete. The department is also working on a mobile application to bring buyers and farmers on one platform for better price of agriculture produce. Disbursement of ration has picked up, including the lifting of subsidised pulses. The SEC asked the director of municipal administration and panchayats’ secretary to frame modalities to open local markets as continued closure would adversely affect shop owners and the state economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/provide-information-of-employees-who-are-stranded-outside-goa-companies-told/articleshow/75512894.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Entry to service people? RWAs in Delhi still in two minds||NEW DELHI: While Delhi government has decided to relax restrictions during the third phase of the Covid-19 lockdown, there still are questions over whether housing societies will allow in domestic helps, drivers, plumbers, electricians and water-purifier repairmen. Most residents’ welfare associations in Delhi have their own rules about permitting entry to outsiders. Even before the lockdown was announced on March 24, many RWAs had barred the entry of domestic helps and drivers into housing complexes overriding the objections of some residents. Such decisions aimed at minimising the chances of coronavirus infection. But with the government now loosening the restrictions, there are circumspect RWA executives. “It’s a tough call. Since morning we have had rounds of discussion because many residents, especially senior citizens, have requested entry permission for domestic helps,” said Sulbha Gupta, RWA member, Narmada Apartments in south Delhi. “But many argued that because the maids work in multiple houses and have least access to safety items, they could carry the coronavirus. Besides, the helps and drivers mostly come from Tughlakabad, Sangam Vihar and Dakshinpuri, the first two of which are containment zones.” RWAs also pointed out that with public transport almost nil, even in low-risk zones, it will be a challenge for domestic helps to commute. “We had helps take a shortcut via Jahanpanah City Forest to reach Madangir. But that route is closed now. I think we should leave it to individuals to decide if they want the helps to come or not,” said Sanjay Rana, president, GK II RWA. But certain RWAs want to play safe, saying that it would not be difficult to stop people from calling their house helps, drivers, plumbers, etc. Sudha Sinha, who heads the Federation of CGHS Societies, Dwarka, said, “People are fed up of managing things on their own for over 40 days. Our WhatsApp group is filled with complaints and difficulties faced by residents. All we can do is to take precautionary measures while allowing these people into societies.” Some RWAs will arrange hand sanitising and thermal scanning for maids and drivers visiting the apartments. The RWA secretary at Mansara Apartments in Vasundhara Enclave, newly released from containment, said, “From Monday, a third of offices will reopen. People then will need house helps and drivers to manage their schedules. I think instead of barring entry of maids and drivers, we should concentrate on ensuring sanitation and safety of all.” In north Delhi, where most of the housing colonies are not gated, RWAs have left it to the residents to take the decision on summoning their domestic helps and drivers. It will be at their own risk, said Saurabh Gandhi of Rana Pratap Bagh. He added, “We attempted to stop these people from coming in during the lockdown but some residents didn’t obey. Even now, if the need arises, they will anyway call their drivers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entry-to-service-people-rwas-still-in-two-minds/articleshow/75512553.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||IITR, BSIP start testing for Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP) on Saturday started receiving swab samples from KGMU for testing for Covid-19. Scientists of both the institutes were trained by KGMU’s microbiology department. The institutes have state-of-the-art lab and have the capacity to test 100 samples daily. IITR director Alok Dhawan said, “On day one, we got 45 samples from KGMU. We have a team 24 scientists in the lab.” BSIP spokesman Pawan Govil said the institute received 31 samples from KGMU. “A team of six members, including three BSIP scientists and three from a private institute in New Delhi, are conducting the test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iitr-bsip-start-testing-for-covid-19/articleshow/75512897.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Two kids discharged in Dharwad||DHARWAD: Two children, who are siblings, who had tested positive for Covid-19, and were treated at KIMS in Hubballi, were cured and discharged on Friday evening. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said the blood and throat swab samples of a three-and-a-half-year-old boy designated P-234 and seven-year-old girl designated P-235, were sent twice for testing in a span of 24 hours, and the test reports have come back negative. The doctors, after examining their respiratory systems using X-Ray, ascertained that there was no problem, and recommended the discharge of the two children. The mother of these children, who was allowed to be with them in the hospital, had not tested positive for Covid-19, but her samples were still tested, and found to be negative for Covid-19. She was also sent home. With this, the number of patients cured of Covid-19 in the district has gone up to four. At present six people who have tested positive for Covid-19 are being treated at KIMS, and are said to recovering. 1,493 stranded labourers sent to their hometowns Following the orders by the state government on Friday, allowing stranded labourers to return to their native places, the district administration and labour department, with the support of NWKRTC, sent as many as 1,493 migrant labourers to their native places. These labourers, a majority of whom work in brick kilns on the outskirts of the twin cities of Dharwad and Hubballi, had been provided temporary shelter at shelter homes set up in taluks in the district. The NWKRTC had arranged for 74 buses to ferry the labourers back to their hometowns on Friday night. Social welfare department joint director N R Purshottam said that the labourers hailed from Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Belagavi, Yadgir, Bidar and Bagalkot districts. A maximum 20 labourers were ferried in each bus. Maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks, was mandatory for all the travellers. The buses were sanitised before they left Dharwad. As many as 876 labourers from Kalaburagi were ferried in 44 buses, while 350 labourers from Vijayapura travelled in 27 buses. The list of the labourers has been sent to the respective deputy commissioners. A nodal officer was appointed for each taluk, and he accompanied the labourers, to help them reach their taluks. During their stay in shelter homes, food and clothes were provided to the labourers. Their health was also checked on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-kids-discharged-in-dharwad/articleshow/75511329.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Relaxation hope in least-affected Covid 19 areas in PMR dashes||Pune: The civic administration’s plan to relax the lockdown norms in areas having limited Covid-19 cases suffered a jolt on Saturday after the state government categorically refused to allow opening of standalone shops, other than those selling essentials, in the corporation limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad -- both marked as red zones.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had proposed to establish “micro clusters” in the areas reporting large number of Covid-19 positive cases. He had planned to offer relaxations for shopping and construction activities from May 4 in the areas outside such small containment zones.“The state advice is against what we had planned and hence, we need to put our plan on hold for the time being," Gaikwad told TOI, asserting that the administration would still opt for micro clusters based on the number of cases in affected areas for better management of Covid-19.Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) continues to be in the red zone. So, only those activities permitted by the central and state governments in the red zone would be allowed.”Domestic helps are unlikely to be allowed to resume work for the next two weeks. “Most of them come from densely packed slums and if their area is contaminated, then they can carry the infection outside,” said Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the PCMC.Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “I have spoken to both the municipal commissioners and they would have to come out with orders for the same. I shall try to relax the containment zones in talukas in the rural area leaving aside Haveli taluka, where there are cases.”Gaikwad said the Pune Municipal Corporation would go ahead with the formation of micro clusters as these would be helpful in making changes in the internal containment zones of the city. “We shall redefine the containment zones in the municipal area of Pune. The details about it would be discussed in a day or two,” he said.Though industrial units and IT offices in Hinjewadi, Talewade and Chakan can resume work, sources claimed that the relaxation would remain only on paper because of logistical issues. With people not being able to crisscross tiny containment zones and being forced to stick to the 7am to 7pm restrictions, it is likely to be a non-starter for the next two weeks, according to industry participants. Similarly, the Bhosari industrial unit cannot spring to life until May 17. MCCIA director-general Prashant Girbane said those residing in the red zone of PMC and PCMC limits but not in a containment zone and need to travel to industries outside the municipal areas should be granted the travel permission via a “self-declaration” on a government portal rather than another set of passes and licences. “We need ‘operational’ guidelines from the local administration and the police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/relaxation-hope-in-least-affected-covid-19-areas-in-pmr-dashes/articleshow/75513049.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 3, 2020||Goa||Officials in bind as netas call to demand quarantined sailors be freed||Panaji: The issue of quarantine of seafarers has added an unexpected dimension in the state’s fight against Covid-19. Ever since seafarers from the Marella Discovery and others who entered Goa were placed in facility quarantine, authorities have been receiving interventions from politicians questioning the need to keep the sailors isolated. And this is just one of several problems authorities are facing. A few days ago, a seafarer quarantined in a city hotel escaped in the middle of the night by evading security. He was later apprehended at Old Goa and taken back to the hotel. Officials say they are in it for the long haul. “Our problems will increase as the number of people in quarantine increase,” said an official who declined to be named. “Politicians interfering and asking us to release seafarers only adds to our woes.” At present 62 sailors who arrived in Goa on Wednesay are in facility quarantine, and 200 more are expected to reach next week. The official said that keeping a tab on a large number of sailors or other persons will be a huge challenge. “It will be an issue, given their anxiety to return home early.” Now, to fend off requests from politicians, the official said that any neta coming with such a request will be asked to submit an undertaking that they would take full responsibility for sailors released without completing their 14-day period. “Who shall take responsibility if a sailor is released without completing 14 days in facility quarantine? What if he shows symptoms of Covid-19 after he’s sent home? Another issue authorities are facing is that some sailors, after accepting to stay in paid quarantine, are refusing to pay. “Two sailors who came to Goa after staying in Mumbai for 15 days claimed they were penniless, and refused to pay after staying in the facility for two days,” he said. A person opting for paid quarantine has to pay Rs 2,000 as room tariff. The paid quarantine, the official said, has become a bone of contention even as shipping companies have agreed to bear the expense of their respective employees. With this being a big problem, the official said that the government could at least send sailors who have tested negative for Covid-19 home, with a direction to stay in home quarantine. For that to happen, the health department would have to give its nod, he said. “They are responsible people. Most sailors were in quarantine while they remained on the ship,” he said. Meanwhile, the directorate of health services has strengthened its monitoring of persons placed in home quarantine. Persons in home quarantine are stamped, and stickers are put outside their houses, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-in-bind-as-netas-call-to-demand-quarantined-sailors-be-freed/articleshow/75512895.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||813 Delhi students stuck in Kota to come back home on Sunday||NEW DELHI: “The last time I met my parents was during Diwali and I just cannot wait to see my family,” said Sharka Uruz, a medical aspirant studying at a coaching institute in Kota. Uruz, a resident of Mandawli in east Delhi, is one of the 813 Delhi students who are expected to reach the capital early morning on Sunday. In an operation that saw officials of different departments of Delhi government brainstorm since Thursday, 45 private diesel-run buses were arranged and sent to Kota on Friday. “We left for Kota around midnight from Kashmere Gate ISBT and reached the city around 10 am on Saturday. The buses were parked in a large compound and the students living in different hostels were brought there by the local administration,” said a Delhi government official. The buses were accompanied by nine officers of the social welfare department, apart from a team of doctors, transport department inspectors, revenue officials and civil defence personnel. “Thermal scanning of all the 813 students was done and they were screened for symptoms of Covid-19 by our doctors. None of them were found to be symptomatic,” the official said. “After the screening, the students were provided a heavy lunch and before they boarded the buses, the vehicles were thoroughly sanitised. All the drivers were provided personal protection equipment. There were not more than 20 students in any bus,” he added. “All the students have been provided hygienic food packets for dinner and bottled drinking water. The buses will not stop anywhere between Kota and Delhi as stopping at a restaurant may expose the students to infection,” the official told TOI on Saturday evening. “The arrangements done by Delhi government are really appreciable,” Uruz told TOI over phone. Like most students, she had decided to stay back in Kota after the lockdown was implemented. Many students said they had to face challenges ranging from arranging food to battling depression. Uruz, however, said her coaching centre supported all students. “I used to talk to my son studying in Kota every day during the lockdown, but we were under stress. I was in touch with his coaching institute too, but since only three students were left in his lodge, there was a lot of psychological pressure,” said Najafgarh resident Dinesh Das. “I’m happy that Delhi government is bringing the students back and I hope he is dropped somewhere near our house. It may be difficult for me to reach Kashmere Gate,” he said. “After the buses reach Kashmere Gate ISBT, the students will be screened again before being sent home in 60 Delhi Transport Corporation’s buses,” the official said. “The students will be dropped as close to their homes as possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/813-students-stuck-in-kota-to-come-back-home-today/articleshow/75512570.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Some liquor shops in Delhi likely to be opened with riders||NEW DELHI: The state government is planning to open some liquor shops in the city soon in line with the relaxations announced by the Union ministry of home affairs for red zones. Sources said this will be subject to strict conditions in order to ensure social distancing. Paan shops in the capital are, meanwhile, set to open on Monday. The excise department on Saturday asked the chiefs of four government agencies running over 400 liquor shops in the city to immediately submit a list of IMFL shops and country-made liquor shops which conform to the MHA’s relaxation criteria. The criteria say that all non-essential standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are permitted to open. A government official said that some liquor shops which are standalone but not located in markets, market complexes or malls would be allowed to open but these are few in number. There are over 800 liquor shops in the city (400 government and 400 private run). Out of them, around 170 liquor shops are located in malls and won’t be opening. “Among the existing shops, only some would conform to the MHA criteria and would be allowed to open. A list of such shops with their locations will be submitted to the government which will take a final decision,” said sources. There are around 80 country-made liquor shops, a large number of them on the outskirts of the city. All liquor outlets in the capital have remained closed since the lockdown started on March 25 while those located inside malls and bars were closed a few days before that. Liquor worth Rs 5,000 crore is sold annually in Delhi and closing all outlets for a month can result in a revenue loss of around Rs 500 crore. This has also led to sale of illicit liquor. “The liquor shops can be allowed to be opened during a fixed time provided that the licencees ensure that social distancing is strictly maintained and the shops follow all the guidelines of the health department to check the spread of coronavirus,” said sources. They added that the shops will have to operate with the minimum possible staff and will have to ensure that their staff and customers use hand sanitizers. If the government goes ahead with this step, bottling plants, warehouses, breweries and other establishments linked to the production of liquor may be asked to make arrangements for their staff to stay nearby and follow all social distancing norms. The government may issue e-passes for transportation of the liquor stock, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/some-liquor-shops-likelyto-be-opened-with-riders/articleshow/75512561.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh supplied 14.5 lakh litre sanitiser to states during lockdown||LUCKNOW: Almost 36 lakh litre of sanitizer was manufactured in UP since lockdown and more than 40% of it was supplied to other states. Principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said FL 41 licence for manufacturing sanitizer was issued to 27 sugar mills-cum-distilleries, 12 distilleries and 46 other units. “About 35.99 lakh litre sanitizer was produced Till April 30. We supplied 14.50 lakh litre to other states,” he said. Haryana took 4.11 lakh litre, Maharastra 2.89 lakh litre and Delhi 2.46 lakh litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-supplied-14-5l-ltr-sanitiser-to-states-during-lockdown/articleshow/75512901.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Two suspects admitted in isolation ward||Panaji: As many as 116 contacts were placed in facility quarantine, while two suspects were admitted to the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, stated the health bulletin of the directorate of health services on Saturday . The bulletin stated that 195 samples tested negative for Covid-19, while 18 reports were awaited. The state government has enhanced its testing capability by making the virology laboratory at GMC functional round the clock. Three teams have been appointed to keep the laboratory functional, an official said. Seafarers who returned to Goa earlier this week have been placed in quarantine at a city hotel. 40 persons have been quarantined at Old Goa residency, 19 at Margao residency and others in residencies at Margao, Mapusa, Farmagudi, and Vasco. The expenses of persons placed in quarantine at GTDC residencies are being borne by the state government. Out of seven cured patients, one person is still undergoing home quarantine on completion of seven days in facility quarantine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-suspects-admitted-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/75512899.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Work on service road for RoB resumes||Trichy: The state highways department has relaunched civil work to establish the long-pending service roads for the four-lane Thiruvanaikoil road overbridge (RoB) in Srirangam. Highways department officials have obtained permission from the district administration to commence the work on condition that social distancing and other precautionary measures for labourers are ensured to avoid contracting Covid-19. The department recently resumed civil work to establish service roads and stormwater drain below the RoB. While the ground filling and non-bituminous layer work have been completed, bituminous layer work would begin in the next few days. “Stormwater drain construction is nearing completion. The service road will have two bituminous layers,” an official said. The sub-work of the Thiruvanaikoil RoB was estimated to be completed at a cost of Rs 6 crore. People in Periyar Nagar, Ganapathy Nagar, Veereswaram and Thiruvanaikoil will heave a sigh of relief once the service roads are. “Retaining wall is being constructed at the Kallanai arm. We have completed 70% of the work. The pending work will be accomplished by June,” the official added. The RoB was inaugurated on June 2019 but the service roads were not established since then. Residents were demanding the construction of service road for about a year now as it was difficult to access hospitals, hotels and other commercial establishments. Though the civil work began, it attracted severe criticism from locals as authorities failed to complete it before the deadlines set twice in October 2019 and February 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-service-road-for-rob-resumes/articleshow/75512586.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 41 Covid +ve cases in Kapashera building set off alarm bells||NEW DELHI: Forty-one Covid-19 positive cases from a single building in Kapashera village in Delhi’s Southwest district have made it the second largest site of infection after the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin. The district administration reported that 175 samples were collected from this building on April 20 and 21, of which 67 reports were released on Saturday showing 41 infected individuals. Rahul Singh, district magistrate, revealed that the administration had sought to pre-empt the spread of infection in the building by sealing the area on April 19. “We had detected one positive woman living in the building on April 18. Given the cramped conditions in the building, we had to carry out containment before the mandatory level of three or more confirmed cases was reached,” he explained. An official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, elaborating on the poor living conditions there, said, “It is a two-storey building with a narrow corridor connecting rented rooms. In some rooms live families with 5-6 members, while other rooms have 10-15 bachelors. Space is so limited that if someone comes out of the room for fresh air, the balcony cannot hold anyone else.” The results came after 13 days, and re-testing will now be carried out to assess the present status of the residents. Singh attributed the long delay between testing and results to “blockade at Delhi-Noida border and backlog at National Institute of Biologicals, Noida”. The official of SDMC, under whose jurisdiction Kapashera falls, said an intense disinfection drive on the lines of the measures in the Nizamuddin masjid will be carried out on this building. Six knapsack pump operators and a disinfectant tanker have been exclusively deployed for the building. A corporation public health officer worried about an increasing number of cases emerging in high-density areas like Kapashera. “The Thekewale Gali containment zone shows that the new challenge before us are these chawl-type settlements where social distancing is near impossible,” the officer said. “We are appealing to people to use sanitising agents and keep disinfecting commonly used surfaces such as hand railings and doors in their buildings.” The health officer added that in slums, where large numbers share a single room, the local population is being advised to wear face masks even in the rooms. “Since the residents all use the common toilets, we are now recommending the deployment of mobile toilets and hand-wash stations,” the officer said. Meanwhile, one of the largest containment zones in the city — J & K, L and H pockets of Dilshad Garden and G, H and J blocks of Old Seemapuri — were de-contained on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/41-ve-cases-in-kapashera-building-set-off-alarm-bells/articleshow/75512574.cms||Paras Singh
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||76 lockdown violation cases in Malkajgiri||Hyderabad: Since the lockdown began on March 23, Malkajgiri police has filed 76 cases have against people violating lockdown norms. A total of 210 two-wheelers and two three-wheelers have been seized during the lockdown. According to police, as many as 43 shopkeepers and 33 assential commodities violators were also booked during the lockdown. Malkajgiri police also booked 28 persons who were found gambling under the Gaming Act, while eight people who were caught selling or transporting liquor were booked under the Telangana Excise Act. Three cases were booked against violators under Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, while three persons were booked for overspeeding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/76-lockdown-violation-cases-in-malkajgiri/articleshow/75512578.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Goa||Over 35k stranded migrants looking to return home||Panaji: Till date over 35,000 migrant workers in Goa have said that they would like to return to their states, as per data being collected on these workers by various state authorities. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said there are approximately 3.5 lakh migrant workers from nine states in Goa. The state executive committee (SEC) has asked the nodal officer to monitor the compilation of data received from different sources, including the online portal, and to ensure that there are no duplicate entries. At the village level, the directorate of panchayats has directed panch members to conduct surveys to find out how many migrant workers want to return to their states. A senior officer said that they have forwarded over 30,000 names to the nodal officer. With regards to the state’s fishing sector, which employs a large number of such workers, the fisheries secretary said that the department is in the process of collecting data. As per its initial assessment, about 8,000 workers, mostly from Orissa and Jharkhand, have said that they would like to return. Meanwhile, additional collector North Goa Dashrath Redkar said that the respective district collectorates are collecting migrant data from municipalities. The SEC said that as the task of handling the movement of migrants is a very delicate and massive exercise, the nodal officer has been empowered to issue all necessary directions to meet emergent needs. The nodal officer presented the revised standard operating procedure (SOP). North Goa superintendent of police Utkrisht Prasoon said that police are visiting migrant settlement pockets and asking them not to panic. Prasoon said that police have told the migrants to approach them if they are in need of any essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-35k-stranded-migrants-looking-to-return-home/articleshow/75512898.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Rural government schools expect surge in enrolment after lockdown||TRICHY: Even as there is no official announcement about the reopening of schools in the state, rural government schools are in an upbeat mood as they anticipate a significant surge in enrolment. Teachers anticipate at least 10% surge in new admissions. With a majority of parents in underdeveloped Ariyalur and Perambalur districts employed as daily wagers in Chennai and other cities, the ongoing lockdown has crippled their earnings. Teachers say that parents of children studying in private schools may find it difficult to pay the fees and opt to enrol their wards in government schools. The panchayat union middle schools (PUMS) in Ariyalaur and Perambalur are eager to augment their strength. “Post the lockdown, we expect our school’s enrolment to surge by at least 10%. We will promote our school to attract new admissions,” K Thirumalaiselvi, headmaster, Kallakudi PUMS, Ariyalur said. Schools are planning to exhibit benefits such as freebies, a student will get by joining a government school. Such proactive measures earlier have helped increase the strength of government schools in Ariyalur district from 1.36 lakh students in 2018 academic year to 1.40 lakh students in 2019. The number is expected to grow further. “The demand for government schools will certainly increase based on the quality too,” S Elavalagan, a teacher from Kothavasal PUMS, Perambalur district said. Experts believe that economic reason alone will not be the factor. “Infrastructure development made in government schools will play a role,” said educationist Prince Gajendra Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rural-govt-schools-expect-surge-in-enrolment-after-lockdown/articleshow/75512595.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Dawn Chorus: Can’t go out? Listen to chirping birds on AIR||New Delhi: On Sunday morning, All India Radio will broadcast a two-hour ‘Dawn Chorus’ — the sound of birds heard all across the country — to spread positivity in times of the novel coronavirus pandemic. While May 3 is annually celebrated as the International Dawn Chorus day, the sound of chirping birds is generally collected live, with the broadcast moving from one country to another. However, with the national lockdown in place and the majority of nations suffering from the spread of Covid-19, birders have, this year, planned to collect sounds from their own balconies and homes before passing it onto AIR, which would then broadcasting it for two hours between 5.45am and 7.45am on Sunday. While each year, this symphony of birds is broadcast live, in association with the European Broadcasting Union and RTE Ireland, this year, the EBU was forced to call off the Dawn Chorus, owing to the coronavirus outbreak. For the year, Amlanjyoti Mazumdar, director, External Services Division at All India Radio, said they have decided to crowd source the dawn chorus and broadcast it themselves, asking birders and people from all over the country to pitch in and send them recordings from their homes and balconies. “The idea struck me in early April, when one morning I could see how the withdrawal of human activities had given birds a field day. I recorded the vibrant serenade through my phone recorder and knew it then that others too could share their recordings in a similar manner,” Mazumdar claimed. Birders from across NCR, and in different places across the country, have been asked to pitch in for the two-hour special Dawn Chorus. Bikram Grewal, an eminent birder, said the experience will be completely different this year owing to the lockdown in place. “There are two advantages. One, the noise pollution levels have completely gone down, which allows you to hear birds more clearly. Secondly, air pollution is down and visibility has improved. That is good for birding,” said Grewal, who has, in the past, provided recordings for the Dawn Chorus. Another birder from the city, Dr Surya Prakash, said reduced human interference during the lockdown has not only helped the birds, but people have started paying more attention too. “If you listen closely, you can hear birds almost throughout the day. Unlike live recordings, this year we are doing it from our balconies and each birder is looking to contribute,” Prakash added. Monica Gulati, producer at AIR, said the broadcast this year would be special in many ways. One can tune in to FM Rainbow (102.6 MHz) or the Rajdhani channel (450.5 mts i.e. 666 kHz) for the chorus. Gulati said people can also tune into airworldsevice.org, or the YouTube channels of AIR World Service and its mobile app — NewsOnAir. “Despite a tricky situation, people have come together to assist us and sounds from abroad and different parts of India have been put together to make this broadcast a success,” Gulati added. Prakash said birds whose chirping sounds have been heard the loudest in the capital i during the lockdown include the brown-rock chat, Indian robin, oriental magpie-robin, rufous treepie, common hawk-cuckoo, Asian koel, barbets, rosy starlings and even the golden oriole — a bird which migrated from the foothills of the Himalayas for breeding purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dawn-chorus-cant-go-out-listen-to-chirping-birds-on-air/articleshow/75512591.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 3, 2020||Goa||Panaji’s fish market opens after 5 weeks, but no mask, no fish||PANAJI: After over a month of shutting the municipal fish market, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will resume open sale of fish on Sunday from 6am to 1pm. The directorate of fisheries had suspended the activity of open sale of fish mandating only home delivery of fish. Around 55 of fish vendors who earned their living at the city’s busiest area, are being accommodated in the parking lane next to the fish market adjoining Royal Foods. And along the lines of rules mandated for purchase of commodities from fair price shops - where items are not being sold to buyers without a face mask— the CCP has said that buyers without a face mask will not be sold fish. “We will put up a sign saying ‘No mask, no fish’ so that people are informed,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. There is a fine of Rs 100 for not wearing face masks in public places in the background of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has authorized municipal inspectors, talathis of every taluka, police constables not below the rank of head constable and village panchayat secretaries to impose such fines. “People should understand the gravity of the situation and wear a mask on their own instead of waiting for us to inform them,” Madkaikar said. Only two lines of fish sale are being allowed where vendors will hawking wares opposite each other on either side of the parking lane. The CCP has marked boxes in the entire lane designating spaces for the vendors while maintaining social distance. CCP has also barricaded the space in the presence of the Panaji police on Saturday to ensure that discipline is maintained. CCP inspectors will monitor the situation at the time of sale of fish to ensure social distancing is practised by buyers. Meanwhile, the state government has directed the directorate of municipal administration and directorate of panchayats to devise the modalities on how to open markets which are currently closed with all safety norms in place, as the continued closure would adversely affect shop owners and the state economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-fish-market-opens-after-5-weeks-but-no-mask-no-fish/articleshow/75512900.cms||Nida Sayed
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘Give PDS benefits to people from Uttar Pradesh’||LUCKNOW: A day after the national ration portability was implemented for 16 states, UP’s food and civil supplies department has written to other states, asking that benefits of the scheme be extended to people from UP. Officials said that as per their feedback, the scheme is yet to gain popularity, largely because very few are aware of it. As an example, one quoted, only two persons holding cards issued in Maharashtra picked up ration from UP’s Sultanpur district on Friday while on Saturday, a single person from UP collected ration in Karnataka. “The National Ration Portability scheme under ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ was introduced on May 1 and the food and civil supplies department has rolled it out in UP. Under this, migrant workers holding ration cards from any state can pick up ration from any fair price shop located in any of the 16 states and one UT in India,” said an official. However, he added, due to poor publicity of the scheme, there had hardly been any takers for it. Presently, there are about 5 lakh people from other states who are in UP due to the lockdown while at least 10 lakh persons from UP are spread in other states. “All of them may not have ration cards but we can presume that a significant proportion does and almost nobody has claimed ration till now,” he said. Other than UP, other states in the scheme are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Tripura, Bihar, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/give-pds-benefits-to-people-from-up/articleshow/75512904.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Do not let Hyderabad’s green quotient dip post lockdown, urge experts||HYDERABAD: Environmentalists warned that the significant improvement in air and water quality, which the city has witnessed since the lockdown, may cease to continue if we are not mindful. They warn that after days of staying indoors, a spurt in travel and industrial activities could set us back again. “The drop in pollution levels has happened as a result of the lockdown and not because we have made any lifestyle or systemic changes,” said environmental scientist Babu Rao, who lamented that staying indoors is being seen an inconvenience by many. Speaking to TOI, Rao said once people start heading out, vehicular traffic will increase, worsening air pollution levels. “A reduction in travel time on the road and reduced energy consumption must be encouraged through policy decisions. The biggest takeaway from the lockdown is that people need to live simpler lives, especially the rich.” Activist Pranay Upadhyay, who has also been advocating for a reduction in vehicles, suggested dedicated cycle lanes across the city and car-pooling to reduce vehicular pollution. Speaking about the resumption of industrial activity, Kajal Maheshwari, representing city-based environmental group, Citizens for Hyderabad, said, “The cost of the end product does not factor in environmental damage. Sold for dirt cheap these products are then lapped up by consumers.” Putting the onus on people to be more aware of the environmental cost of what they buy, Maheshwari also said: “People need to be aware of the environment policies that are constantly being rolled out at the Centre. The environment ministry has become on that favours industries by giving clearances rather than one that protects our nature.” With respect to keeping our waterbodies pollution free, Kalpana Ramesh, founder of the Rainwater Project which has started the Blue Hyderabad Campaign, said, “We need to focus not just on water security, but healthier water basins. This means once the lockdown is lifted, we need to ensure better segregation of waste and stopping dumping waste and pollutants in lakes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-not-let-citys-green-quotient-dip-post-lockdown-urge-experts/articleshow/75512599.cms||Uttara Varma
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Case against 18 for trespassing advocate’s home||Hyderabad: An illegal trespass case was registered in Medipally police station against 18 people for trespassing into the house of an advocate on Friday and verbally abusing him and his family. The victim, Yana Prabhu Raj (45), a resident of Narapally Village, Medipally on Friday approached the police after Palle Madhavi, her husband Palle Bikapathi and another offender, Asifa along with 15 others picked up a quarrel and verbally abused the complainant and his wife, creating a panic in the locality by threatening them. This occured following a dispute between Bikapathi and the complainant. A case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-18-for-trespassing-advocates-home/articleshow/75512593.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Cops take special care to guard families from infection||JAIPUR: Seeing their families on video calls has become a norm for several policemen who are staying alone in various cities of Rajasthan. Besides, they wash their uniforms daily to ward off any risk of infection. For Vikas Pathak, who is serving as superintendent of police, and his wife Preeti Chandra who is posted as deputy commissioner of police (west), Jodhpur, the lockdown has brought various changes. “I talk to my family on video call with masks on. Firstly, when the cases were increasing in Jodhpur I asked her to send the children to Nagaur. Also, I call up the doctor even in case of an occasional sneeze. One has to be careful and we are no exception,” said Pathak while talking to TOI over phone from Nagaur on Friday. Pathak, who has done his MBBS, never fails to heed the advice of his wife to be careful whenever he is on duty and visiting public places. “As police officers, we are supposed to perform our duties but we are also humans and have our fears and insecurities,” he added. Preeti on being away from her two daugthers, said, “Earlier both of them were with me. One is six year old and another is three year old. The moment I used to come home they were into running towards me and hugging. Thus, I decided to send them to my husband in Nagaur,” she said. Arvind Singh Shekhawat, who is posted as inspector at Nokha police station in Bikaner was though lucky enough to bring his family home, but he has also made some lifestyle changes. “I regularly wash my uniform and keep a proper distance from my family,” said Shekhawat. “Policemen are also getting infected, thus, we have to be careful,” he added. “My mother, wife and children stay in Kota where I served for a longer period. Thus, after I reach at my home it is compulsory for me to make a call to the children. I motivate them. Also, I talk to my mother and wife since they are also anxious about my health,” said Rajesh Meshram, deputy superintendent of police, Bhawani Mandi police station in Jhalawar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-take-special-care-to-guard-families-from-infection/articleshow/75512905.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tested negative or positive? Transparency takes a hit in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government continued to put a lid on the actual case status of two patients who were admitted to Medical college hospital, after their samples had tested positive for Covid-19 at Rajiv Gandhi centre for bio-technology. Confusion arose over the accuracy of test results in the case of two patients as their samples were tested negative even within 24 hours of hospital admission. Repeated tests also yielded negative results in medical college and another centre following which samples were also sent to NIV Alappuzha for revalidation. While state health department did not reveal the test results from NIV, sources confirmed that the results are negative. When TOI checked with health authorities in Kanyakumari, they said that the test results of 68-year-old man from Tamil Nadu have been tested negative at NIV Alappuzha and they have received an unofficial communication from Kerala on this regard. Given the repeated negative results after the first positive, the health officials believe that the two active cases presently in Medical college could be true negatives. Usually testing results in four types of scenario; true positive where a person with Covid-19 tests positive for the disease, false positive; a person without Covid-19 tests positive for Covid-19, false negative; a person with Covid-19 tests negative for Covid-19 and true negative; a person without Covid-19 tests negative for Covid-19. “There is always a factor called pre-test probability in which doctors look for patterns in clinical symptoms, other factors to anticipate chances of infection. In addition to test results from the machine, we also have to go by pre-test probability. In cases where we think it is a weak positive; either we collect more samples and do two tests; a retest on first sample and a new test on sample collected again. When both yield same result, we can confirm and declare the result,” an official said. When chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was quizzed about two different results for same person during his daily news conference on Saturday, he sounded vague in his reply. “The first test was doubtful; a retest was done to allay the doubts. The retest yielded accurate results,” he said without making it clear whether it was a case of false positive or not. Dr Rajan Khobragade, principal secretary, health department ruled out any confusion; however, when asked how two states could interpret different results for the same person; he said that the first test can be misleading. He also said that the test becomes negative if the person is in recovery. However, the patients were tested negative barely within 24 hours of hospital admission for Covid-19, which hardly gives any time for recovery and that one of the patients had to be admitted to Covid-19 ICU. M Radhakrishna Pillai, director, RGCB said that the tests were very clear, however it was unclear whether there was an error in sampling. “We didn't do retest as it was unnecessary. Our results are very clear, in that sample it tested positive. There is always a positive control and negative control and when both work you know that the test is correct. Whether it was an error in sampling we don't know because samples were received from the hospital,” he said. Meanwhile, the 68-year-old person was shifted from ICU to room on Saturday where his son has been staying since April 29. The other person is also under treatment in a room with his wife opposite to the room where Tamil Nadu native stays. Covid-19 patients are not allowed by standers generally, however medical college authorities said that in these cases, the patients are dependent, hence by standers are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-smears-transparency-as-authorities-spend-time-and-resources-on-true-negatives/articleshow/75511415.cms||Aswin J Kumar
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Liquor stores will be short of staff and stock when they reopen||HUBBALLI: Tipplers are overjoyed as liquor stores are set to reopen in green zones and other places with certain restrictions on May 4. These outlet owners, however, will have to grapple with various issues – the most challenging being deployment of enough manpower to ensure social distancing and other norms related to Covid-19. A retail liquor shop owner in Koppal said many of his workers left for their native places when the lockdown was announced. “It is not possible for us to get them to work immediately. So, it will be tough to manage the rush with one or two workers,” he said. T M Meharwade, treasurer, Federation of Wine Merchants Association of Karnataka, said many liquor store owners have raised their apprehensions. “We are chalking out plans to avoid untoward incidents during the sale of liquor,” he said. Meharwade said a retail store would need 3-4 security guards and 8-10 staff to deal with the rush which is expected to be unprecedented as liquor outlets are being opened after 45 days. Another liquor store owner in Hubballi said his existing stock is likely to get exhausted within four days. “All shopkeepers will send an indent at a time to the government, demanding huge supply of liquor. This may lead to a delay in getting liquor as per the demand. The delay is likely to trigger arguments between the sellers and buyers and could lead to law and order problems. So, the government should provide proper security at each outlet once they are opened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/liquor-stores-will-be-short-of-staff-and-stock-when-they-reopen/articleshow/75510582.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘Positive’ baby ushers in positivity amid warriors||VADODARA: He is the youngest entrant at the GMERS, Gotri Hospital. And so, when six-month-old Hussain was brought to the special paediatric room behind ICU-3, all the attendants whispered a silent prayer for his well-being. However, quite on the contrary, the infant has come as ray of sunshine to the ward, dispelling all negative vibes. His sweet innocence has come as a whiff off fresh air bringing smiles to tired faces, and in fact, many vow, Hussain has become a stress buster for them in times of crisis. Hussain, who is asymptomatic, was referred to the hospital from Halol community health centre after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Hussain’s grandfather and uncle had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. The grandfather who had been ill for a while was the first person to test positive in the family followed by the uncle and then Hussain. “My nephew has no symptoms at all. It is difficult to believe that he has been infected. Even the doctors are surprised at this. While three of us have been hospitalized, three other family members are home quarantined,” said the uncle. Hussain’s mother was staying with him at the hospital along with another relative. The uncle himself has no symptoms and said that he was perfectly healthy. Such is his joyful nature, that many videos are circulating on him on social media. In the videos, a man can be heard saying ‘Positive bachchu aayu chhe’, where the positive here only refers to Hussain’s joviality and not about his Covid-19 positive status. “The infant is asymptomatic and very stable and is recovering in a special paediatric room behind ICU-3. He’s a delight for the resident doctors and the nursing staff who frequently go to see and take care of him. Hussain is being breastfed by his mother following all the required protocols,” said Dr Minoo Patel, advisor of Covid-19 hospital at GMERS Medical College and Hospital. “He is the youngest entrant at our hospital and everybody in our team is delighted to care for this bouncy baby. We are all praying for his speedy recovery,” said Dr Nimisha Pandya, nodal officer and in-charge paediatrician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/positive-infant-ushers-in-positivity-among-warriors/articleshow/75512096.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 3, 2020||Goa||Panchayats rue short notice for data collection||Panaji/Colva: The directorate of panchayats collected data on migrant labourers intending to return to their home states on war footing, registering them in a span of two short days. However, most panchayat members TOI spoke to said the duration was too short and that since they could not make public announcements some migrant labourers wanting to go back may not have been registered. “These are emergency situations, so we have to compile the data on priority. Despite the short duration the panch members have done a fantastic job in compiling the information,” panchayats director Narayan Gad said. This process comes in the wake of the Union government plans to start point-to-point train services to take them back. Following the exercise, Gad said that there are 31,000 migrant labourers in Goa who intend to return owing to the lockdown. “I got the message the previous night (Thursday night) asking for details of migrants by 1pm. It was not possible to spread the word around and hence the exercise continued through Saturday,” Carmona sarpanch Allwyn Jorge said, whose panchayat managed to collect details of around 215 migrants. “We managed to register the people within two days, but we cannot say that the process is completed. There must be many who may not be aware and still need to go home,” Tivim panch member, Shiva Kambli said. A total of 240 people registered at Tivim panchayat on Friday and another 100 were queued outside on Saturday. They were from Rajasthan, Odisha and Karnataka. Approximately 1,000 people showed up at the Taleigao panchayat, about 50% of whom were not living or working in the village. These were sent to the North Goa collector’s office to figure out their jurisdiction. “There should have been a proper survey done earlier to document them and streamline their work. This way there wouldn’t have been such a strain on our staff to compile this data in the midst of a pandemic,” Taleigao sarpanch Agnelo da Cunha said. The panchayat has registered a total of 521 labourers. Cavelossim panchayat member James Barreto said panch members knew exactly which villagers had engaged migrants, which proved helpful in collecting data quickly. “Over Friday and Saturday we collected data of 350 migrants,” he said. The Orlim panchayat collected data of 56 migrants, while Benaulim collected details of as many as 636 within two days, the highest number among other neighbouring panchayats with Colva the next highest with 450. Colva panchayat member Pio Furtado said that they sent back almost 100 people as they were of different nationalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayats-rue-short-notice-for-data-collection/articleshow/75512902.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||They feed stray dogs chicken biryani during lockdown||MANGALURU: Every morning and for almost three weeks, four youngsters from Sankolige near Talapady have been preparing over 100 plates of chicken biryani. No, they are not meant for celebrations, but to feed stray dogs who have been left without adequate food due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Professional fitness trainer S Vinyas Kumar Shetty and his friends serve chicken biryani to stray dogs, covering the roads from Talapady in the state border to Nethravati bridge near Mangaluru in the afternoon. Shetty said stray dogs scarcely get food since all the restaurants and food joints are shut due to the lockdown. “We are at least able to share our difficulties with the authorities concerned or friends. Those dogs on the street have no option, but to live in hunger. Hence, we decided to feed them,” he said. His friends Nishal Poojary, Pavan Ganiga and Gagan Ganiga are also actively involved in cooking and serving the food. The cooking is done at Vinyas’ house in Sankolige and 25kg of rice is used for preparing chicken biryani. Their initiative was self-financed initially, but now have the support of donors. Many of his friends and well-wishers are extending support by offering rice and other items. The owner of SK Caterers in Thokkottu has provided delivery van and vessels to supply food. The chicken stall of U P Aliyabba and Canara Chicken – also in Thokkottu -- provide chicken. “Initially, I shared the idea of feeding street dogs with our friends through social media. Many of my friends and well-wishers started supporting the cause. We start the distribution from Talapady and cover Someshwara, Uchila, Ullal, Deralakatte, Pilar, Madoor and Beeri. We feel happy seeing dogs wait for our vehicle and eat thankfully every day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/they-feed-stray-dogs-chicken-biryani-during-lockdown/articleshow/75510488.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||IFS officials irked over MLA’s fake complaint||Nagpur: IFS officers are irked over Melghat MLA Rajkumar Patel who filed a false complaint against them on May 1 for enjoying a mutton party at a protection camp in Chikhaldara and later in the evening, backtracking. Letters in possession of TOI show that Patel on May 1 filed a written complaint with Amravati guardian minister Yashomati Thakur that three IFS officers and other 40-50 frontline staff, including range forest officers (RFOs), were engaged in a mutton party at Karagolai camp in Chikhaldara range under Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR). Patel attributed the party to deputation of two IFS officers — Dr Sivabala S, deputy conservator (DyCF) with Sipna division and his wife T Beula Ezhilmathi, DyCF with Akot division. He also mentioned that she was present at the party, which is not true. Both will join at the Central Academy for State Forest Service (CASFOS), Dehradun. Beula denied the charge, saying, “I was at the headquarters at Akot and not at the Chikhaldara camp. Both are two ends of the reserve. This was also verified by MTR field director MS Reddy.” Patel had also called up a police inspector to conduct a raid at the camp and told district collector Shailesh Naval as well. Repeated calls to Patel proved futile. In a press release, Melghat officials confirmed they were on a patrolling track. Those present included DyCFs Piyusha Jagtap, Avinash Kumar, ACFs Indrajeet Nikam and Kamlesh Patil and others. “We were on patrolling duty and basically discussed forest and wildlife management during Covid-19 times. This is a fire season and we discussed the good things done in Sipna division,” said Sivabala. “We are well aware about the previous government’s decision regarding cooking non-vegetarian food in government guesthouses and protection huts. It was a joint inter-range meeting with the neighbouring territorial division. The charges against us have no substance,” Sivabal added. However, MLA Patel, after learning that he had been given a wrong tip-off by his supporters and was caught on the wrong foot, in the evening issued a letter to the guardian minister stating that he is withdrawing his complaint letter. “I was misguided by some political rivals and false information was spread to create a wedge between me and forest officials. There was no such party held at the core area camp as I had assumed,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ifs-officials-irked-over-mlas-fake-complaint/articleshow/75512629.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Woman kills two daughters, self in Morbi||Rajkot: A woman hanged herself to death after strangling her two daughters — nine-month-old Puja and five-year-old Sirjana — in Ravipark Society on Vavdi Road in Morbi on Saturday. Police said the victim, identified as Tulsi Nepali (25), killed the girls before taking her own life. “Preliminary investigation revealed that Tulsi had taken the drastic step in a fit of rage after suspecting her husband, Vishnu, of having an extra-marital affair,” said R J Chaudhary, inspector with Morbi A division police station. Vishnu and Puja had come to Morbi five months ago from Nepal. Vishnu works as a gym instructor. “On the fateful morning, when Vishnu went up to the terrace of his house for work out, Puja committed the crime. When he entered his home, he saw the bodies of the victims,” added Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-kills-two-daughters-self-in-morbi/articleshow/75511405.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||40 cows die of ‘starvation’ in Bikaner||Jaipur: At least 40 cows are reported to have died in the last two days at a municipal corporation-owned cow shelter in Bikaner allegedly due to starvation and mismanagement. The carcasses were found scattered in the shelter on Saturday. The state government has been collecting surcharge on stamp duty and cess on liquor in the name of protection of cows. Locals alleged that the deaths at the shelter is happening for the past one month, however, the corporation has turned a blind eye towards the issue. Lekram, who stays near the shelter, alleged, “Cow deaths have increased at this shelter. On Saturday, 23 cows died here. In two days, a total 40 cows have died. There is no fodder at the shelter and bovines are starving to death.” It was further alleged that the operator of the shelter is Chennai-based and is not purchasing fodder for the cows after the lockdown. Mokharam Dharinya, president of Jeev Raksha Sanstha, Bikaner, said, “There is no water and fodder facility and cows are dying due to starvation. We have informed the collector and CEO, but nothing has been done in this regard.” When STOI contacted the operator Anil Ojha, he refuted the allegation. He said, “There is adequate fodder available. The local politicians are interrupting in the functioning of the shelter to tarnish his image.” Green activists further alleged that the administration and operator failed to upkeep medical facilities, too, for these bovines due to which the death toll is increasing. Dau Lal Bohra, a conservationist, said, “No proper medical facility is available at the gaushala, which is packed and crammed with twice its capacity. Deaths are occurring as veterinarians here have failed to cure the sick cows. They could be saved if timely treatment is provided.” The administration believes that cows brought to the shelter are weak condition and are mostly dying due to feeding on polythene. Of the total number of fatalities caused by polythene, in 90% cases, the animal dies due to failure of multiple organs, a condition caused due to excessive accumulation of plastic in the stomach. Bikaner municipal corporation CEO Khusal Yadav said, “After the issue was raised earlier, we conducted post-mortem of many cows. Clusters of polythene were taken out in rock-solid state from their rumens. As cows brought to the centre are already malnourished, they are dying. Efforts are being made to control the deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-cows-die-of-starvation-in-bikaner/articleshow/75512907.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Railways to focus on improving freight network||Hyderabad: As the passenger train movement has been hit hard by the lockdown due to coronavirus, railway authorities are focusing more on sprucing up the freight network. “Railways will be focusing on switching to an assured time-bound delivery model. Providing insurance mechanism to partners, rationalizing the freight rates, making logistic costs more reasonable and improving the efficiency of loading/unloading at terminals as well as ports in a phased manner,” read an official statement from SCR. The zone has made plans for effective utilisation of freight and parcel trains, focusing on food grain traffic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railways-to-focus-on-improving-freight-network/articleshow/75512613.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||60 cameras in Amrabad to monitor varied fauna||Nagarkurnool: In order to monitor the movement of wild animals near the water holes during summer months, the forest department officials of Amrabad Tiger Reserve in Nagarjunasagar division have installed nearly 60 camera traps in different parts of the forest. In the past fortnight, officials say that the images recorded show a wide variety of fauna, including leopards, dholes, spotted deer, wild boars, monkeys and sloth bears in and around the forest area. The surge in the number of sightings as been attributed to the decline in human movement in adjoining areas. “The camera trap images revealed a wide variety of animals in different areas of the forest. Due to Srisailam and other temples being shut and vehicular traffic coming at an all time low, wild animals are freely moving and are also coming on to the roads quite frequently these days,” said M Joji, district forest officer, Nagarkurnool. To avoid animals from succumbing to increasing temperatures, the forest department also built 750 saucer pits. The officials further informed that 10 solar CCTV cameras have been installed inside the forest area. Steps are also being taken to prevent people from entering the forest area till August this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-cameras-in-amrabad-to-monitor-varied-fauna/articleshow/75512606.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to take call on reopening liquor shops on Tuesday||HYDERABAD: With the Centre’s decision to allow liquor shops in all zones with restrictions such as social distancing, the Telangana government is mulling allowing liquor shops in green zones. The state Cabinet which is meeting on May 5 is likely to take a decision on the matter. While the Centre has put nine districts in green zone where no new confirmed coronavirus positive cases have been reported in the past 21 days the state government announced that 22 of the 33 districts have had zero positive cases for the past two weeks. “Though the Centre has allowed shops in orange and in red zones, the Telangana government does not want to allow any activity in red zones or hotspots,” a senior official of the state government said. As per the Centre’s notification, six districts in Telangana have been labelled red zone, including Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri. A couple of weeks ago a few officials had pushed for liquor shops to be permitted to stay open for two hours a day, but chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao turned down the proposal. Telangana Wine Dealers’ Association, too, did not approve the proposal as it is difficult to maintain social distance at shops. Over and above this, each shop has to pay a licence fee of Rs 35,000 to the government each day, which they may not be able to make in just two hours. “If the government takes a decision on May 5 to permit liquor shops in green zones, we will obey the order. But if a liquor depot is located in red zone, how can stock be supplied to shops? Many breweries and distilleries are located in red zone districts such as Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal district. The government should ensure smooth movement of supplies,” Telangana Wine Dealers’ Association president D Venkateshwara Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-take-call-on-reopening-liquor-shops-on-tuesday/articleshow/75512620.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Linemen to get wireless sets, fire-proof kits to cut casualties||LUCKNOW: Linemen, who face the daunting task of keeping power grids running, perched atop high-voltage transmission towers are often electrocuted and drop dead several metres below. With 18 linemen dying in harness over a three-year span, energy minister Srikant Sharma decided to equip them with wireless sets for uninterrupted communication with ground staff and prevent a sudden power switch-on that triggers casualties. This is touted as the first big step by any energy minister in the state to protect linemen in their high-risk job. Even in inclement weather, a lineman can be spotted atop an overhead high-voltage transmission pole rummaging about tangled wires to repair a loose end and they number about 55,000, employed with different distribution companies of UPPCL. “It’s painful to see linemen getting electrocuted while repairing a faulty power line. And most deaths have occurred due to lack of communication between ground staff at power stations, feeders and lineman. In most cases, cell phones don’t work at that height and ground staff switches on the power, assuming that lineman has descended. And this causes instant death,” said the energy minister. “We have decided to stop deaths and injuries to lineman by providing them wireless sets and fire-proof kits,” said Sharma, while talking to TOI on his plans to protect UPPCL linemen. The energy department issued the order last week and once frequency and other minor issues are taken care of, linemen with UPPCL would be adequately armed with these life-saving kits. The minister had announced this in the last session of the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/linemen-to-get-wireless-sets-fire-proof-kits-to-cut-casualties/articleshow/75512908.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 3, 2020||Pune||PMC to conduct structural audit of gantries ahead of monsoon||Pune: The civic administration on Saturday decided to carry out a structural audit of all gantries across the city before the onset of the monsoon. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s decision follows the collapse of an overhead gantry near Sancheti hospital on Ganeshkhind Road on Friday evening due to the gusty wind and rain. “A major tragedy was averted on Friday as there was no vehicular movement on one of the busiest roads in the city. I have told the sky sign department to carry out the structural audit of such structures across the city with the help of a private agency. The weak billboards will be removed or replaced before the monsoon sets in,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. As per the PMC’s records, there are over 300 traffic sign gantries, billboards and advertisement hoardings in the city. “Carrying out a structural audit of all these billboards is a daunting task as we will have to float a tender and complete the statutory process in the coming days. Secondly, even a hired agency will not be able to complete the task soon due to the shortage of manpower in light of lockdown,” a senior official from sky sign department said.Meanwhile, over 60 trees were uprooted on Friday in various parts of the city because of the wind and rain. “As many as 20 teams of the fire brigade were roped in to clear the roads. The work went on till Saturday evening,” chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise of Pune fire brigade department said. The garden department and ward offices undertake an annual exercise of trimming and pruning trees before the monsoon. “But this work is yet to be initiated as offices are not working with full strength,” a PMC official said.The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) and Khadki Cantonment Board have told their engineering departments to identify such weak billboards within their limits. “We had removed hoardings in the past and had told the owners of the building on which they were mounted to do the structural audit and submit a report. We will again conduct a survey of such structures falling within our limit,” PCB’s chief executive officer Amit Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-conduct-structural-audit-of-gantries-ahead-of-monsoon/articleshow/75512910.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Poaching on the rise in Rajasthan, two held at MHTR||JAIPUR: The coronavirus pandemic seems to be fuelling an increase in poaching in Rajasthan. Armed poachers have been captured on a camera trap inside the core area of Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR). This is the fourth incident ever since the lockdown when poachers with weapons entered inside a national park, sanctuary or tiger reserve in the state, and were captured on camera. As per the latest report, near Kheda Nakka Chowki at MHTR, a CCTV camera on Thursday night captured three persons, with one of them carrying a gun. Deputy conservator of forest T Mohan Raj said, “We arrested two poachers inside the tiger reserve on Friday. One of them was carrying a gun. Acting on a tip-off by our informer, we increased the patrolling in the sensitive areas, where these poachers’ movement was recorded. On Friday, we successfully nabbed two poachers and are investigating further.” Sources said, these poachers are from the bordering village, Gudda Rajpura. Experts say the impact of Covid-19 on the livelihoods of poor people has contributed to an increase in poaching activities in the area. “The villagers of the bordering area are mostly tribal and employed by mine owners. As these mines are closed due to lockdown, the miscreants are entering the park for hunting,” said a local wildlife enthusiast. Lockdown measures and no tourism have given free rein to the poachers to roam and hunt endangered species. Earlier on April 25, in the village of Olwada panchayat adjoining Ranthambore National Park (RNP), four poachers killed a chinkara. No arrest has been made till date. Two days before the incident, on April 23, four poachers were caught in a camera trap with weapons in their hands at Keoladeo National Park in Bharatpur. Similarly, on April 1, a father-son duo was nabbed with a gun at Kala Devi Sanctuary in Karauli district. A senior forest official said, as movement of villagers and authorities is restricted, poachers are trying to take advantage of the lockdown. He added, “Many people are returning to their villages from other areas. They include people with a criminal mentality, who encourage the locals to enter the forest for hunting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poaching-on-the-rise-in-raj-2-held-at-mhtr/articleshow/75512912.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Water release into Mutha canal stops after leakage in wall||Pune: Leakage from the Mutha right bank canal’s wall in Hadapsar forced the state irrigation department to stop water discharge from Khadakwasla dam on Friday.The leakage will, however, not hamper the city’s water supply as the civic administration will continue to receive water from Khadakwasla through the pipeline that goes up to the Parvati water works. The leakage was spotted near a culvert constructed on the canal. “We got an alert on Friday morning about the water leakage from the canal, following which a team was sent to the spot. The water discharge from Khadakwasla was stopped as there are hutments near the spot where the leakage was reported. Water was flowing at the rate of 1,205 cusec into the canal. The water-level went down by afternoon, following which the repairs were initiated,” an official from the state irrigation department said. A survey by the irrigation officials revealed that the water was leaking from a point near the base of the wall. However, the officials said there was no damage to the wall and the structure was completely safe. “Water was seeping from the spots because mud had become loose from that portion. The repair work is expected to get over by Sunday,” the official said. The department said that though it categorized the seepage as minor, the water release into the canal was stopped completely because the spot was located in the city area that had residential population.The water released into the canal goes to the rural parts for irrigation. Water was being discharged for the summer crops. The rotation that was initiated last month was expected to get over this month.A breach of the Mutha canal’s wall in September 2018 near Dandekar bridge had led to inundation and damage in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-release-into-mutha-canal-stops-after-leakage-in-wall/articleshow/75512915.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Chamber seeks breather for MSME, retail sector||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) has made representations to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Union and state governments for the MSME and retail trade sectors to bounce back after the lockdown. The ill-effects of the lockdown will result in great economy disaster throughout the world, chamber president N Jegatheesan said. Banks must be directed to grant fresh loans up to 50% of the existing loans without demanding any additional security. Interest dues for four months from March to June should be waived. Jewellery loans should be granted by banks without asking for sources at 3% interest for these sectors. With very acute liquidity crunch, existing GST rates are unbearable and sales turnover will be severely impacted. So, GST should be reduced with the maximum ceiling at 18% till March 2021 to induce more trade, manufacturing and service activities. Benefit of the recently announced corporate tax reduction to 15% for new manufacturing corporate units should be extended to all units and partnership firms. Rent payable for private buildings for four months (March to June) should be permitted to be paid in six instalments from July to December. Salary to be paid by private sector establishments for the lockdown period should be dispersed by the ESIC akin to salary paid for sick employees who could not report for work. For employees of establishments who do not come under the ambit of ESIC, 50% of their salary should be borne by the government. To increase productivity and economic growth rate, the government should allow 12-hour shifts with 50% additional wages. They also sought changes in the individual income tax structure to give a push to the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chamber-seeks-breather-for-msme-retail-sector/articleshow/75512624.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Containment zones come under CCTV surveillance||MADURAI: City corporation has started monitoring containment zones through CCTV cameras installed at vantage points to keep a check on people. Zonal task force special officer C Kamaraj inspected the temporary control room set up at Anna Maaligai, in the presence of Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan on Saturday. Officials said that there are 13 containment zones in Madurai corporation. CCTV cameras have been installed at four to five places like junctions and large stretches in each containment zones. Monitoring the live feed, officials entrusted with each zone will be alerted if crowd movement within the containment zone is found. “Each containment zone has around 7,000 to 8,000 households adding to 2.80 lakh households in the entire city. There is no need for people to step outside their house since the essential items are made available at doorsteps,” an official stated. Corporation has obtained two drones, one to carry out disinfection and the other for monitoring crowd movement, the official said. Officer Kamaraj handed over 200 hand pumps to sanitation employees for disinfecting public places and distributed kabasura kudineer to corporation employees. He also inspected the recently installed automatic hand sanitizer at Anna Maalaigai building. V Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy, who has been appointed as a special field officer for Madurai corporation to contain covid-19, visited a few places. She inspected the measures taken at containment zones at SVP Nagar, Thabal Thanthi Nagar, Sellur, Vandiyur, Yagappa Nagar and Race Course Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-zones-come-under-cctv-surveillance/articleshow/75512614.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||City corpn on a drive to identify, quarantine Chennai returnees||Trichy: Trichy corporation has identified and home quarantined three people who returned from Chennai in the last three days. The y were identified as daily wagers who reached the city on vegetable-laden trucks. The civic body has also launched a survey in all four zones to identify people, including students, who have returned to the city from other districts. Ever since Covid-19 cluster was reported in the vicinity of Koyambedu market in Chennai, daily wagers and vendors who had set up eateries at Koyambedu and adjacent localities are returning to their native places. After some of these returnees were found positive for Covid-19 and responsible for spreading the infection in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, the civic body has been identifying people arriving from Chennai. “Three people have been identified so far, there could be a few more. Our sanitary supervisors are surveying the 65 wards. People who have returned from Chennai and other districts will be home quarantined for 14 days,” a corporation official said. Though inter-district travel has been prohibited, people are hitchhiking on trucks carrying essential commodities. The civic body has planned to take samples from Chennai returnees only if they display Covid-19 symptoms. “We are also in contact with the truck owners to extract information about the truck drivers and number of people on the truck and where were they were dropped. Apart from labourers, other people who reached the city using other modes of transportation including with two-wheelers in recent days are also being surveyed,” another corporation official added. The civic body has affixed home quarantine stickers at the houses of the three people who returned from Chennai and also disinfected the streets and roads near their houses. Using social media, sanitary officials have appealed residents’ welfare associations to report the arrival of people from other districts in the last week, including those who availed e-passes for inter-district travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-corpn-on-a-drive-to-identify-quarantine-chennai-returnees/articleshow/75512612.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||100 students gather at Lodhika primary school||Rajkot: The Rajkot district development officer (DDO) has ordered probe into gathering of over 100 students and some parents at a primary school allegedly to collect questions papers and leaving certificates (LCs) in Pardi village of Lodhika taluka on Saturday.The probe was ordered after a video of the school showing students sitting on the floor and parents gathering in the campus went viral on the social media.According to district education officials, some sort of miscommunication or misunderstanding led to gathering of so many students and parents in the school, which is in violation of the lockdown orders issued by the state government.The students had gathered at the district panchayat-run Swami Vivekanand Primary School in Pardi on Saturday. Since the annual exams were not conducted this year because of the lockdown, all the students were given mass promotion. However, the stated government had asked all the schools to distribute question papers among students for practice during vacation. The students are required to solve the question paper and submit it after the school reopens. On Saturday several students were called to collect question papers.“Since Pardi is an industrial area, mainly children of migrant workers study in this school. With the government giving migrants permission to go to native, some of them were planning to leave,” said Rajkot DDO A R Ranavasiya.“After some students came to collect the questions papers, news spread in the entire village resulting in the gathering. Some parents had come to collect LCs of their wards before going to their native,” added Ranavasiya.The DDO has asked the district primary education officer to conduct an inquiry into the incident. “Though adequate social distancing was maintained, action will be taken if it is found that the incident as result of negligence on part of the school authorities,” Ranavasiya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/100-students-gather-at-lodhika-primary-school/articleshow/75511427.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: 18 test positive in Ariyalur, two in Perambalur district||The central region registered 20 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday from Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, most of them daily wagers at the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai. Ariyalur, which has so far been reporting cases in single digit, saw 18 people including a four-year-old boy testing positive while Perambalur district had two including a six-year-old boy. With this, the total number of cases in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts has surged to 26 and 11 respectively. In Ariyalur, 17 of the cases were daily wagers at the Koyambedu market who returned on vegetable-laden trucks between April 26 and 30. “As the market was shut and there was a dip in the number of trucks visiting Koyambedu market, we decided to return to our native places,” one of the men told TOI. Borders of villages in Sendurai block from where the 18 people hail including Sirukalathur have been sealed. The health department has taken samples from the close contacts of the 18 people. Now, around 376 samples in Ariyalur district await test result. The district administration has also put up about 160 people, who were suspected contacts of the positive cases, at a quarantine facility in Ariyalur government arts college, Thirumanur and Andimadam girls higher secondary schools. Meanwhile, the health department has collected samples from 79 people on Saturday. In Perambalur, a 23-year-old daily wager who returned from Koyambedu and the six-year-old boy, a relative of another Koyambedu worker, tested positive for the disease. A 23-year-old woman employee of the main branch of a nationalised bank in Perambalur town with Covid-19 symptoms has been admitted to the isolation ward of Perambalur government hospital. Samples have been collected from around 30 members working in the bank which was disinfected. Trichy, Pudukottai, Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam had no new cases Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/18-test-positive-in-ariyalur-two-in-perambalur-dist/articleshow/75512633.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Liquor worth Rs 7 lakh seized, one arrested||HYDERABAD: Medchal police intercepted a goods vehicle, which was carrying 1,873 liquor bottles worth Rs 7 lakh in the early hours of Saturday and arrested one person. Patrolling police found Naresh, who was driving the vehicle, suspicious and stopped his vehicle. He was driving the vehicle from Kompally to Medchal when he was caught. “Fearing that he may run into cops on the highway, Naresh chose bylanes to transport the stock. We are probing from where did he get such a huge stock and who was supposed to receive it,’’ Medchal inspector Praveen Reddy told STOI. It is learnt that the stock belongs to a person who was operating an illegal belt shop. “It is being transported, perhaps to sell locally during the extended lockdown,’’ police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-worth-rs-7l-seized-one-arrested/articleshow/75512635.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Kothrud society takes up containment measures||Pune: The residents of a bungalow society along Paud Road have initiated containment measures after a resident tested positive for Covid-19. The resident is attached with a city-based private hospital and is currently undergoing treatment. “His family members have already started taking self-quarantine measures. No one has any symptoms as yet,” said senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police station. Meanwhile, the staff from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday sanitized the entire colony. The police officer said that there are two senior citizens in the family. “The person, who tested positive, was admitted to a hospital. He had informed his father that he had a fever and stayed back in the hospital. The reports confirmed that he tested positive for Covid-19,” Joshi said. After getting the information, Joshi visited the society and spoke with residents. The police also barricaded the area around the society. “No one from the family has any symptoms. Despite their age, both senior members of the family have agreed to visit the hospital for tests,” Joshi said. She added that residents of the society told her that they have asked all domestic helps to stay at home as long as the lockdown continues.  “The residents do not even allow vegetables vendors to enter the premises. They send the carry bags with a requirement list to the vendor instead,” she said. A senior member of the bungalow society told TOI that he came to know about the positive case in the afternoon. “None of our members step out unless necessary. Our main gate has been locked for the past month,” he said. Another resident said that the doctors’ family has started taking self-quarantine measures. “We will get our society sanitized as a safety measure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kothrud-society-takes-up-containment-measures/articleshow/75512922.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Shekhawat accuses state govt of ineffective implementation of lockdown||Jaipur: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has accused the state government of not implementing the lockdown effectively in the state. In a press conference held over video conferencing on Saturday, Shekhawat expressed his concern over the rising number of cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur. He demanded that central reserve forces take over both the cities to control the spread of coronavirus. Jaipur was nearing 900 cases, while Jodhpur with 500 cases are leading the chart in the state. “It appears that the government is not interested in taking measures to stop the spread of coronavirus in Jaipur and Jodhpur. Not implementing the lockdown effectively is the reason behind the surge in cases,” said Shekhawat. Hitting out at CM Ashok Gehlot over the issue of migrant workers, Shekhawat said the state which has been raising the issue of calling migrant workers back has failed to come up with any concrete plan. “CM Gehlot assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having 4,000 buses ready to bring back migrants while seeking permission for arrival and exit of migrant workers can nowhere be seen,” Shekhawat added. Accusing the state government of not being able to provide food to the needy, Shekhawat thanked the civil society members and NGOs for reaching out to the areas where the government couldn’t reach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shekhawat-accuses-state-govt-of-ineffective-implementation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75512920.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 11 medical shops sealed in Dindigul district for sale of surgical spirit||MADURAI: Seven medical shops in Dindigul have been sealed by the authorities for selling surgical spirit illegally. The Dindigul district administration has received information that a few medical shops in the region have been selling medicines without proper prescriptions. A team of medical inspectors inspected the shops in various parts of the district in Palani, Dindigul, Sempatti and Vedasandur. They took action against 11 shops including seven in Palani, two in Sempatti, and one each in Vedasandur and Dindigul for not maintaining social distancing at their shops and also selling surgical spirit in large quantities. The licences of these shops have been suspended temporarily. Drug inspectors said that they got information from police that a few alcoholics buy surgical spirit in larger quantities from medical shops and consume it after mixing it with water as the Tasmac shops are closed. Shops usually sell surgical spirit directly to clinics on requests from doctors and maintain receipts for the same. The shops had not maintained these records and had sold spirit in large quantities. Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi has said that stern action will be taken against shops if they indulge in such malpractices and sell medicines over the counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/11-med-shops-sealed-in-dindigul-dist-for-sale-of-surgical-spirit/articleshow/75512634.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Rs 12,000 crore salary bill, Rs 2,000 crore income in April||LUCKNOW: Although the Yogi government has sanctioned salaries for 16 lakh employees and 12 lakh pensioners on the first day of May, its revenue receipts in April would force it to look for more means to generate income. The monthly salary and pension bill of the state staff is around Rs 12,500 crore, but in April, which saw a complete lockdown of economic activities at a standstill, the state earned a paltry revenue of Rs 2,284 crore only. To foot the Rs 12,500 crore salary bill the government has borne Rs 10,000 crore from its resources. This unprecedented situation in the state’s history has arisen as two of its biggest sources of income, GST and excise duty, remained dry. The state earns approximately Rs 5000 crore from GST and Rs 3,000 crore from excise duty every month. “It is shocking, but the state cannot compromise with the lives of the people,” finance minister Suresh Khanna told TOI. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already issued directives to set up a special committee to prepare a roadmap to increase state’s revenues. While maintaining that UP was among those few states which have neither cut nor delayed salary payments to its employees, additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said that to overcome the difficult financial situation, housing department has been asked to expedite the process of free holding and compounding, so that it earned additional revenue to replenish the exchequer. Economist Yashveer Tyagi, on the other, hand suggested the government should brace up to face the financial crunch in this financial year go for larger market borrowings. “The RBI should be liberal in granting permission in this regard,” he added. The government had targeted Rs 12,141 crore of tax revenue in April. But it received only Rs 2,012 crore. The target for non-tax revenue was Rs 1,512 crore, but it posted only Rs 282 crore The total revenue collection had been in April about Rs 2284 crore while it had to sanction Rs 12,500 crore of salary and pensions to 16 lakh staff and 12 lakh pensioners . The target for excise revenue was Rs 3,560 crore while it received only Rs 41.96 crore, or 1.2% of the total target. In stamp and registration, against the target of Rs 1686 crore, the state got only Rs 15 crore which is 0.9%, Similarly in GST, the revenue target for April was Rs 4,930 crore, but the state received only Rs 1448 crore, or 29.4% of the target. The state government has already deducted salaries and allowances of ministers and MLAs, freezed their development funds and DA hike of the state staff. The state’s share in the central pool will also be curtailed as the revenues of the Central taxes will shrink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-rs-12000-crore-salary-bill-rs-2000-crore-income-in-april/articleshow/75512936.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||As licensed shops stay shut, illicit brewing thrives in state||Hyderabad: While the state cabinet on May 5 will take a decision on allowing liquor outlets after May 7 in green and orange zones, the prolonged lockdown has opened the floodgates for manufacture of illicitly-distilled liquor, popularly known as ‘gudumba,’ in Telangana, the excise authorities said. A case in point: 2,004 cases have been booked in the last 20 days alone and 10,000 litres of gudumba along with 1.5 lakh litres of fermented jaggery was seized and 1,728 people arrested. With no work and no income due to lockdown and demand for gudumba increasing due to wine shops remaining closed, many people in rural areas and tribal hamlets, including those who had quit their business of gudumba brewing, have returned to the business. Sources said many of them have started brewing gudumba again, thereby shattering the image of Telangana being a ‘gudumba-free state’ since October 2017. The state government had spent Rs 200 crore to rehabilitate gudumba-brewing families after a two-year war against ID liquor. Excise minister V Srinivas Goud told STOI that raids have been intensified. “Excise inspectors have been made accountable to ensure not a drop of gudumba is brewed in their respective jurisdictions or else they would be held responsible for it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-licensed-shops-stay-shut-illicit-brewing-thrives-in-state/articleshow/75512638.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway flooded with special train queries||HYDERABAD: Railway authorities in the South Central Railway (SCR) zone are flooded with queries of special trains being run from across the city. Around a thousand workers from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bihar, and West Bengal are still stuck at the Sangareddy construction site. After a train carrying 1,225 odd workers to Jharkhand left yesterday, the speculation has increased. “I am a resident of Darbhanga in Bihar, stuck here in Hyderabad for more than a month now, what is the procedure of getting a ticket for the special trains? When will the next train run?” tweeted a passenger, tagging SCR authorities on Twitter. However, railway officials say that they are not privy to the plans of more special trains running from the city and said that they will be informed by the state in time. “Since the first Shramik special train left the city, we have been receiving calls, messages and people are also trying to put their requests of traveling to us through social media,” a senior railway official told TOI. “Even when the first train was running from Lingampally, there was no indication then about the government running any other train but five other trains did run. The decision to run these special trains for the workers and other stranded people is coming from the state government of the originating and destination locations,” he added. The Railways is finalising a protocol for states to request for trains. Sources revealed that railway authorities have no role in how the passengers are selected for travel. “We are only responsible for making sure that the special trains which will be finalised run with all rules followed regarding disinfection of coaches, screening of passengers, keeping them fed and maintaining social distancing,” informed railway officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-flooded-with-spl-train-queries/articleshow/75512642.cms||Arya Sharan
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai launches helpdesk for guest workers to return home||Madurai: The Madurai district administration inaugurated a helpdesk for guest workers from other states on Saturday. Many gust workers came to the collectorate to register their names to return home soon. Other districts are also in the process of collecting the details of the guest workers. The number of industries in Madurai is less compared to other districts. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay says that the migrant population is around 4,700 and many workers have approached the helpdesk for registration, said the district administration. The collector said that many of the migrant workers are under the care of their companies where they are working. Around 757 of them including 200 workers from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jarkhand have expressed their willingness to return to their native places. “While some of them came to the collecorate to register themselves, it has been communicated to them that they can send their details through Whatsapp to the collectorate’s number and they would be informed when the government plans to send them back home,” he said. Dindigul district, which has many mills, has a large migrant population of around 8,500 workers. Even before the lockdown, the district administration had identified the workers and taken measures to ensure that their needs were looked after. Sources said that around 5,000 of them had been working in companies, mills and hotels and the employers have taken steps to take care of their staff. The district administration had also supplied them groceries and essential commodities. The details of the workers who want to go home have been registered by the authorities and their details would be submitted to the government soon. In Palani in Dindigul, 170 workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan have expressed their willingness to return home. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri has said that the district has around 8,700 guest workers and they were given food and shelter. Information was being gathered from them and steps would be taken based on their response. Kanyakumari has around 6,000 guest labourers. It includes nearly 2,000 people from West Bengal who predominantly work in the brick kilns. The rest include around 1,000 people from Assam, around 800 each from Jharkhand and Bihar, 300 from Odisha, 150 from Maharashtra and 100 each from Rajasthan, MP and UP. “We will do as directed by the government,” said Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-launches-helpdesk-for-guest-workers-to-return-home/articleshow/75512640.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Eight-year-old girl raped; accused held||Rajkot: A 22-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl twice in Ranjitpara locality of Bhanwad in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Police said the accused, identified as Sandeep Shingadia, had raped the survivor twice on April 28 and April 29. “In the afternoon of April 28, Shingadia took the girl behind his shop luring her with the promise of getting her snacks and raped her, and on April 29, the accused went into the survivor’s house when she was alone and raped her. After the survivor complained to her mother about the incident, she approached us with the complaint,” said M N Pandya, Bhanwad circle police inspector. “The accused had also allegedly threatened to kill the survivor, if she complained about the incident to anyone,” said Pandya. Shingadia, who lives in the neighbourhood of the survivor, was caught from his residence. “He has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and under different sections of Indian Penal Code dealing with abduction and issuing threat, said Pandya.He added, “At present, we have detained Shingadia. We will formally arrest him, once his test report for Covid-19 comes in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-year-old-girl-raped-accused-held/articleshow/75511463.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Udaipur||This Mewar royal is on a mask-making mission||UDAIPUR: Nivritti Kumari Singh Deo (33), daughter-in-law of the erstwhile Mewar royals, is on a mission to making masks for over a month now. Having distributed more than 100 masks to the City Palace staff, Nivritti, a mother of two daughters, is ready to make more. Her younger one is less than a year old, but she is resolute about the task at hand. Nivritti’s choice in textile is traditional. She has sewn colourful masks of ‘Bhandej’ and Sambhalpuri prints. “I’m from Patna Bolangir in western Odisha and Sambalpuri is the traditional handwoven ikat fabric of the area. Now, Udaipur being my home (after getting married to Lakshya Raj Singh Mewar) and ‘Bandhej’ being the traditional tie-and-dye art of Rajasthan, I wanted to try something different with traditional textiles rather than just the run-of-the-mill stuff and as long as one incorporates the safety protocols, it’s okay,” says the cheerful lady, who loves to experiment with vibrant and colourful textiles. “The fabrics were easily available at home and the masks are all pure cotton, washable and re-usable,” she says. Being a home science student, stitching wasn’t too difficult for her. “I learnt sewing and knitting during home science classes at the Convent of Jesus and Mary, New Delhi. Over the years, I’ve managed to knit a couple of mufflers and sweaters and also done a bit of cross stitch,” she says. “It’s rather amusing but before embarking on my mask-making mission, I had to learn how to use the modern sewing machine from scratch, helped by the staff at home. This was followed by learning the art of mask making from an online video from the website called 'Good Housekeeping'. I have to confess that it has been a very therapeutic and rewarding experience,” she adds. Legacy inspires “During World War II, my great-grandmother Rajmata Kailash Kumari Devi of Patna Bolangir organised a group of ladies at the palace to knit sweaters and stitch uniforms for soldiers. They organised woollens, blankets and other provisions to be sent to Indian soldiers who were engaged in the war. So much so, that it became like a little cottage industry,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/this-mewar-royal-is-on-a-mask-making-mission/articleshow/75512933.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||Home salons help citizens sport the quarantine look||While one team of celebrity hairstylists is challenging desis to grow out their tresses through the lockdown, cricketer Kapil Dev has gone to the other extreme by opting to shave off his hair. India cricket captain Virat Kohli was lucky enough to get his partner actor Anushka Sharma to give him a trim, while actor-producer-director Subodh Bhave wielded a pair of scissors to give his sons a haircut. Tough times call for extreme measure indeed.Bushy eyebrows, overgrown hair, unkempt beards and more salt than pepper in the hair are the order of the day since salons and barber shops have been shut due to the lockdown.Like celebrities, common people aren’t far behind. After watching multiple videos on basic methods to cut men’s hair on YouTube, city-based product designer Kanchan Varma-Tapadia sat husband Anand down to give him a haircut. At first she experimented with medium length, then she opted to give Anand an almost shaved look the next time.According to Varma-Tapadia, she also indulged in some self-grooming over the last few days. “Cutting his hair was more of a need than a choice, but it was definitely fun. I’ve been doing self-grooming too. You also get so many kinds of Do-It-Yourself (DIY) kits in the market that are functional and easy-to-use. Apart from my husband’s haircut and self-grooming, I also gave our nephew a haircut a few days ago,” she stated.Several families across the city have taken to self-grooming in the absence of professional help. The prickling heat, grown-out hair and beard are causing several men to opt for getting their trims and shaves. Women too have decided to use natural ingredients to nourish their skin and hair during the lockdown. Several women stated that they have made home-made wax, have tried their hands at threading. Women are also indulging in face-cleaning and other treatments themselves.A 9-year-old resident of Bhandarkar Road, Param Jalan said, “My father has given me haircuts twice during the lockdown. My hair grows fast and it had started irritating me. My father saw some videos on YouTube and gave me a haircut. The first time he was giving me a haircut, I happened to move which led to an uneven cut but it was not very noticeable. The second cut was perfect. It was a fun time with my father.”A joint family from the city has taken to grooming and haircuts between themselves. “My hair was growing and I needed a haircut desperately due to the severe summer heat. My cousin, who loves styling, took up the task of getting me a haircut. I gave him a free hand to style my hair and was his ruse for his maiden approach with the trimmer and scissors. He did a good job getting me a nice short haircut, making me feel much lighter over all,” stated Gaurav Shah.Shah’s haircut gave other family members confidence to get styled as well. Having observed his hairdresser use a trimmer to shave his hair, Wanowrie resident Yuvraj Chaudhary said, “I wanted to chop off my hair for a while and since it is summer, long hair was getting untidy. I have a trimmer at home and I used it to shave my hair off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-salons-help-citizens-sport-the-quarantine-look/articleshow/75512931.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 3, 2020||Pune||Two from Mulshi drown in Pavana river||Pune: A man (32) and a minor boy (13) drowned in Pavana river on Friday morning. The 32-year-old’s body was retrieved from the water later in the day, while the minor’s body was found on Saturday afternoon. The Shirgaon police have identified the deceased man as Santosh alias Dada Balasaheb Ghare of Jawal village in Mulshi taluka. The minor has been identified as Aryan Deepak Aalam of Bebadohal of Maval taluka. “The duo were relatives and had gone to the river for a bath,” an officer from the Shirgaon police said, adding that the other villagers were also present at the site at the time of the incident. “As per the villagers, the boy drowned first. Few villagers jumped in the water to rescue the duo but failed to locate them. They alerted the police thereafter,” the officer said. The teams of Shivdurg Mitra Mandal and National Disaster Relief Force reached the site and began a search operation. “The man’s body was retrieved within a couple of hours. However, the teams had to stop the operation after evening due to dark. The search operation was resumed on Saturday morning and body of the boy was found,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-from-mulshi-drown-in-pavana-river/articleshow/75512934.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Pune||2 held for liquor smuggling||Pune: The crime branch on Saturday arrested two men on the charge of covertly transporting foreign liquor worth over Rs12.58 lakh in a car on Manjari Road despite lockdown orders. Mahesh Nalawade, and his employee Navnath Dhanore will be in police custody for three days. Senior inspector Datta Chavan of the crime branch (unit V) on Friday night received a tip-off, following which the police caught the suspects loading 25 liquor boxes into a car around 12.30am on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-for-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75512937.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||Youngest Covid-19 casualty: Virus kills 20-day-old infant in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed the life of a 20-day-old infant here on Saturday. He is possibly the youngest to fall prey to the deadly virus across the world. Across the state, six persons succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 68. The newborn, who was brought to the government-run JK Lon Hospital in a serious condition on Friday, died within five hours. His test report came late on Friday evening and the health department announced it on Saturday morning. “So far, the youngest to die of the virus was a 45-day-old-boy in Jamnagar of Gujarat. In Connecticut, US, a six-week-old infant had died who was the youngest in the world. The boy who died in the hospital was just 20 days old,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent, JK Lon Hospital, one of the biggest child specialty hospital in the country. The boy was rushed to the hospital from Chand Pole area around 4am on Friday. Since the infant belonged to the one of the hotbeds of the city, doctors conducted Covid-19 test. “He was suffering from diarrhea, vomiting, dullness, septicaemia and low grade fever. We started his treatment and put him on ventilator support by intubating him but his condition was serious and he died at 9am,” said Dr Gupta. Doctors suspect that he might have contracted the infection after his birth. “There is no evidence of vertical transmission of infection from infected mother to baby. No one in the family has tested positive yet,” said hospital officials. It is not the first case brought to JK Lon Hospital with complaints of diarrhea and vomiting. A six-month-old baby was brought to the hospital with diarrhea and vomiting three days ago. He tested positive and is currently recovering. A 55-year-old resident of Ramganj in Jaipur was rushed to SMS Hospital on Friday but doctors declared him brought dead. His samples were taken and he was found infected. A 47-year-old resident of Sardar Patel Marg in C-scheme, was brought dead to SMS Hospital on Friday, also tested positive. A 76-year-old resident of Ramganj, who was brought dead to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital on Friday, also tested positive. Ajmer reported its first death when a 45-year-old resident of Nala Bazaar, who was admitted to JLN Hospital on April 25, died on Saturday. He was suffering from diabetes. A 67-year-old resident of Nagouri Gate in Jodhpur, who was admitted to MG Hospital on April 30, died on the same day. The health department officials said he had pre-existing coronary artery disease. With 106 more persons testing positive on Saturday, the total count of infected stands at 2772. The districts which reported the cases are Jaipur (33), Jodhpur (60), Ajmer (4), Kota (3), Alwar (2), Bharatpur (1), Chittorgarh (1), Pali (1) and Udaipur (1). After being cured, three patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Hospital on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-kills-20-day-old-infant-state-death-toll-at-68-infected-2772/articleshow/75512938.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Show-cause to edu officer for teacher’s transfer in violation of poll code||Yavatmal: The chief executive officer (CEO) of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad, Jalaj Sharma, on Friday slapped yet another show-cause notice on education officer (EO) Deepak Chavne for alleged violation of model code of conduct during the last assembly election. The EO has been asked to explain why action shouldn’t be taken against him within three days. Chavne had allegedly transferred an arts teacher from ZP High School, Pandharkawda, to Yavatmal Multipurpose High School though there was no vacancy. The earlier notice was served for alleged irregularities committed by Chavne in finalizing the seniority list of physically challenged teachers and enlisting illegible teachers for the post of headmasters of ZP schools. The CEO has turned down the list submitted directly by the EO overriding the deputy CEO in charge of general administration department (GAD), CG Chavan. The second notice was served after a teacher brought to fore the “illegal transfer” of an arts teacher. The CEO, after inquiring with the GAD dy CEO, found a prima facie case of model code of conduct violation. According to Chavan, the EO has been asked to submit the file, including the note sheet and approval thereof from the higher authorities, before issuing the transfer order when the model code of conduct was in force. The EO, to shirk his responsibility, served a show cause notice on the desk clerk Javed Sheikh who pleaded ignorance about filling any such note sheet. Sheikh said that he was relieved from election duty for a month and “was not on duty when the transfer order was issued by EO Deepak Chavne with his own signature”. The former headmaster of ZP Multipurpose High School, Sahebrao Pawar, said that he had complained to headmaster regarding this “illegal transfer but the complaint was thrown in the dustbin”. Both the HMs of Pandharkawda and Yavatmal schools said they simply followed orders of their boss. Sources said Chavne has issued orders overriding both the Dy CEO and CEO who have taken the matter as a serious breach of Maharashtra Civil Service Rules. Meanwhile, teachers union has demanded a thorough probe and strict action against the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/show-cause-to-edu-officer-for-teachers-transfer-in-violation-of-poll-code/articleshow/75512647.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Conditions Added For Self Isolation||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh health department has issued further instructions on the disposal of dead bodies. As per the health department, if death occurs in any hospital and the patient is either a Covid suspect or positive, the dead body should be sterilised and sealed before disposal as per protocol. However, if death occurs during the course of transferring the patient between hospitals or while approaching the hospital for any kind of treatment and the victim belongs to a designated Covid red zone, a swab sample should be collected for Truenat testing from the deceased. A similar Covid disposal protocol should be applied to these patients even if the cause of death is road accident or suicide. The body must be sterilised and sealed without necessarily waiting for the test results. If the result is positive, contact tracing and other necessary follow-up action must be conducted. If a death occurs in the green zone, the dead body can be disposed as per the usual practice. Meanwhile, after the Union health ministry in its recent guidelines advised that very mild or pre-symptomatic Covid patients can opt for home isolation, the state health department has added several additional caveats to avail the facility. As per the state government’s guidelines, only asymptomatic patients can opt for home isolation. Even if the patient has mild symptoms, he/she should be encouraged to stay in hospitals. The person opting for home isolation should be below 50 years of age and not have any co-morbidity. Several baseline radiographic and other medical investigations will be conducted on the patient, including complete blood picture, blood sugar, serum creatinine, chest X-ray, electrocardiogram, etc. The patient will not be allowed for home isolation if any abnormality is found in these tests. Persons living in apartments or with joint families will not be permitted to home isolate. Moreover, the patient should not home isolate in a house with persons who are over 60 years or below 10-years-old. The patient shall live in a separate bedroom with attached toilet. The home-isolated person must be taught to use video-calling facility to speak with doctors or local healthcare practitioners, who can monitor the patient round-the-clock. A medical officer shall be attached to a group of home-isolated Covid positives to constantly monitor health parameters and shift the patient in case of an emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/conditions-added-for-self-isolation/articleshow/75511458.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Patna||First ‘Shramik spl’ reaches Danapur with 1,174 migrants from Jaipur||Patna: The first ‘Shramik special’ train to Bihar arrived at Patna’s Danapur station at 2pm on Saturday, carrying 1,174 migrant workers, who were stranded due to the nationwide lockdown in Jaipur and Nagaur in Rajasthan. These workers are the first batch to return after the Centre relaxed inter-state travel guidelines on April 29 to allow stranded people to return to their respective states after the lockdown came into force on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus. The Patna district administration had made the necessary arrangements to screen all new arrivals before being sent to quarantine centres in their respective home districts. The state police, GRP and RPF personnel were deployed from platform 5, where the train terminated, till the railway middle school located behind the station creating a secured corridor in order to ensure that the passengers went straight to screening centre after getting off the train. Minutes before the special train arrived, officers made announcements using megaphones to alert the security personnel to take positions while health department and NDRF personnel wearing PPE suits were ready to screen the passengers. It took around five hours to complete the screening process. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma where present to oversee the entire process of passengers deboarding to making them board buses to be sent to their respective districts after screening without any lapses. “None of these workers were found to be symptomatic during screening. But they will remain quarantined for 21 days at different centres before being sent home. Afterwards, they would remain home quarantined,” said the DM. The entire platform was marked with yellow lines at a distance of several feet on which workers were made to stand along with rope tied parallel to the train in order to ensure social distancing. Divisional commissioner Agarwal told TOI that 100 buses had been kept lined up by the state government at Danapur railway station to ferry the migrant workers to their home districts. “The entire process was coordinated between the Union home ministry, the Indian Railways and the two states to bring these stranded workers back,” Agarwal said. Ravi said the district administration was in constant touch with the administration of Jaipur and Nagaur. “All of them were under medical supervision and were living at industrial or government camps there. They had completed their 14-day quarantine. However, all were screened once again and sent to quarantine centres of respective home districts where the block development officers and circle officers concerned would ensure supply of food and other items to them,” the DM said. He said now the administration is gearing up to repeat the task when they receive information about the arrival of another batch of stranded migrant workers, who are set to reach Danapur from Ernakulam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-shramik-spl-reaches-danapur-with-1174-migrants-from-jaipur/articleshow/75511758.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 3, 2020||Madurai||So far, only one man needed ventilator||Madurai: Madurai has seen a total of 88 Covid positive cases till date as well as patients from Virudhunagar district who were also treated at the isolation facility of Government Rajaji Hospital, but the health authorities are relieved that so far only one patient required ventilator support. Many of the patients did not experience any discomfort related to the disease and spent their days of treatment in the ward with a healthy diet. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said it was fortunate that Covid-19 had not developed into a life threatening disease for many patients admitted to the ward and they could be managed with medication. According to him, the 54-year-old man from Anna Nagar who succumbed to the disease on March 25 was the only one who required ventilator support. The 72-year-old woman from West Masi street, who tested positive, died on being brought to GRH due to comorbid conditions. Some of the positive cases also turned out to be workers at the GRH including those involved in disinfection activities. However, all precautions were being taken to ensure that the disease did not affect the frontline health workers. A house surgeon who worked in the Covid-19 isolation ward tested positive on Friday. President of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association Dr K Senthil said it was too early to say that patients in the region required lesser ventilator support as the spread of the epidemic is slower in this region. ``The death rate in India, when the incidents were between 2,000 and 10,000 was 2.2 %, whereas that in the US was just 1.9 % when the incidents were as high as 50,000. In those terms they were better than us. The rate in the US is now gone to 7.2%.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/so-far-only-one-man-needed-ventilator/articleshow/75512643.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Business||RBI may extend moratorium on bank loans by 90 more days||MUMBAI: With the Covid-19 lockdown being extended into mid-May, the moratorium on bank loans is likely to be further extended for another 90 days. Banks have informed the Reserve Bank of India that most businesses are not expected to start before the end of the month and therefore would not be in a position to pay up the accumulated interest when the present moratorium ends on May 31. Several lenders have suggested that RBI extend the moratorium for another 90 days as by then an assessment can be done on cashflows of businesses. Lenders said RBI has not made any commitment but is aware of the issues facing lenders in light of the extended lockdown. On Saturday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das held a meeting of chief executives of public and private sector banks in two separate sessions via video conferencing. Besides discussing the moratorium, the RBI held a review of the flow of credit to different sectors of the economy, including liquidity to non-banking finance companies, microfinance institution, housing finance companies and mutual funds. RBI also sought information from banks on the position of their international branches. Lenders said although the government had announced relaxations, over 80% of their corporate business borrowers operated in the areas classified as red zones. Given the restrictions on mobility, it was unclear if many of these businesses could be operational before the lockdown ends. As per bankers, the biggest challenge in extending loans to businesses was assessing their repayment capacity. A CEO of a public sector bank said private lenders have tightened their risk criteria, which had resulted in many borrowers knocking at the doors of public sector banks. Another bank’s CEO said he expected many businesses to function at 50% capacity till September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-may-extend-moratorium-on-bank-loans-by-90-more-days/articleshow/75513140.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lockdown setback for professional swimmers||LUCKNOW: Depicting their pathetic tales amid the lockdown, deserted swimming pools in major cities are not only facing financial losses, but are also posing a setback to young swimmers trying to carve a niche for themselves as well as their state in national and international tournaments. The city’s army and civilian pools are also facing the same situation. Unlike the western region of country, swimming in UP is a season specific sport limited only to four-five months of summers. The prolonged lockdown has dashed the swimmers' hopes of taking to the pool this season as even after restrictions are withdrawn there is a remote possibility that the sport would attract people. All-weather pools are common in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and other big cities, offering an opportunity to swimmers to practice throughout the year. Successive governments in UP have promised to convert the KD Singh Babu stadium's swimming pool into an all-weather pool, but till date no such facility is available. During the Samajwadi Party government, two international swimming pools with all-weather facilities had been developed at Saifai and the JPNIC in Lucknow. “However, both the pools have been lying defunct for three years,” lamented Ravi Kapoor, state secretary, UP Swimming Association. Expressing similar views, state president of the association Ranjit Singh Judev, a former Congress minister, said, “Such facility could have proved a boon for swimming enthusiasts. After Lokpati Tripathi if anyone had seriously contributed to the sports promotion in the state, it was former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav who had even engaged a Croation coach to promote football in the state.” The association regretted that at a time when other states are offering quality swimming pools to their players, the two swimming pools in UP which also meet international standards have been closed. The swimming pool at KD Singh Babu stadium in Lucknow does not have all-weather facility and the association has also raised objections over its poor water quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-setback-for-professional-swimmers/articleshow/75512944.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Colour-coded tokens to curb crowding from Monday||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation will issue colour-coded tokens - red, blue and yellow - to households outside the containment zones in the city in order to bring down crowds at markets. Each token holder will be allowed to venture out to purchase essentials only two days in a week. “We have started distributing tokens door-to-door from Friday evening onwards. We expect to reach out to every household by Sunday, so that the new system can be launched from Monday onwards,” said a corporation official. However, those in containment areas will not be allowed outside. Only those, who are into essential services can come out. The decision was taken in a recent meeting since many people are found venturing out of their houses regularly on the pretext of purchasing essential items. Those with yellow tokens will be allowed on Mondays and Thursdays, red on Tuesdays and Fridays and blue on Wednesdays and Saturdays. On Sunday, no one will be allowed to come out. Ward numbers will be mentioned on the tokens, so that they do not stray elsewhere. “It becomes hard to control crowd on Sundays as a large number of people throng meat shops and fish stalls. They throw social distancing norms in the wind,” a health official said. Only those between 18 and 60 years will be allowed to come out using the tokens. Elderly people have less immunity and underlying health issues, which will make them difficult to recover, if they are infected with Covid-19. People should wear masks and maintain social distancing when they come out of their houses. The tokens must be carried along with them. People should also restrict themselves to markets nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/colour-coded-tokens-to-curb-crowding-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75512651.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Crime rate plummets, no chain snatched||TRICHY: The crime rate has dropped during the lockdown in Trichy city. Interestingly, there was not a single case of chain-snatching reported in the city in the last five weeks. Unlike the normal days, city police came across only six cases during the lockdown and a few of them were cracked. During the same period last year, there were 40 cases, which include house break-ins, chain-snatching, pickpockets and thefts. Nearly a week into the first lockdown on April 25, Trichy city witnessed a couple of break-ins at two TASMAC outlets at Konakarai and Varaganeri in Trichy. The burglars decamped with liquor worth Rs 1.20 lakh from the two outlets. Both the incidents took place during night hours. Another house break-in was reported in Arasamara Street at Melapudhur in the city. The residents were away in their native place in another district. The burglars took away four sovereigns of gold and silver jewellery. The Palakkarai police arrested two people in this connection. In one incident, a couple of unidentified people barged into the forest department office at JK Nagar near Trichy international airport and decamped with electronic gadgets including hard disc, cell phone, pen drive, keys of two vehicles and a few other things and Rs 3,800 in cash on April 23. The incident occurred when forest guard S Arunkumar, 24, was asleep in the office after keeping the door open. In another incident, five people from Trichy city were arrested for attempt to lift three mobile phones from the house of a 42-year-old woman at Duraisamypuram on April 21. In another incident, R Praveen Raj of Anthoniyar Temple Street was caught red-handed by a resident, A Akbar Ali, 49, of the same street when he gained entry into his house on April 11. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, V Varadharaju attributed the decline of crimes to the arrest of the habitual offenders in some cases before the lockdown and the restricted movement of people outdoors. “We have curtailed the movement of accused by arresting them for their crimes, thus preventing the crimes,” Varadharaju told ToI. Chain-snatching remained a major headache for the city police but not even a single case was reported during the lockdown. “The restrictions curtailed the movement of the offenders from other districts as well. Another reason is people are always at home,” said deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vedarathinam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crime-rate-plummets-no-chain-snatched/articleshow/75512650.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Expats’ unclaimed baggage pile up at Karipur airport||Kozhikode: Unaccompanied baggage brought in by expats from Gulf countries before the suspension of international flights as part of the lockdown have been lying at the air cargo complex of the Karipur airport for over a month. The expats have not been able to come and collect the baggage even after completion of their quarantine period due to the curbs in interdistrict travel. Officials of Kerala State Industrial Enterprises (KSIE), which operate the air cargo complex, said nearly 70 metric tonne of cargo brought in by over 100 expats is lying at the cargo complex. The baggage contains personal items and eatables like dates and other food stuff brought in view of the Ramzan season. KSIE officials said that they have been getting requests from passengers who had brought in the baggage. Officials say that though they are ready to release the goods to the expats, the restrictions in inter district travel have made it difficult for the passengers to come and collect the baggage. “In the current scenario, expat returnees can come and take delivery of cargo only if authorities provide special permission by the government authorities as lockdown travel restrictions are in place,” an official said, adding that the issue has been brought to the notice of the government authorities. Expats send their personal belongings and other stuff as unaccompanied baggage as airlines provide baggage allowance of only 30-40 kg as checked baggage. The officials said KSIE is likely to waive the demurrage charges for the goods kept at the warehouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/expats-unclaimed-baggage-pile-up-at-karipur-airport/articleshow/75511480.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Mango protection bags help growers avoid pesticide use||Vijayawada: Mango protection bags have come has a boon to farmers in the district. It is helping them save money and time. Horticulture authorities of Krishna district who were focused on pesticide-free organic farming motivated farmers’ producers’ organisations (FPO) and mango farmers to use mango protection bags which help increase production. M Ramu Nayak a farmer from Kothuru Tadepalli who cultivated mangoes using protection bags said, “We are able to save the crop from the flowering stage. There is no burden of using pesticides. Size and shape of the fruit increased than regular practice and this helped us get a better price.” Speaking TOI, B Dayakar Babu,assistant director of horticulture said, “We have distributed around one crore bags on a trial basis to the farmers. Each bag costs Rs 2. These bags are made of bamboo pulp and are safe. Our mission is to promote healthy organic mangoes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mango-protection-bags-help-growers-avoid-pesticide-use/articleshow/75511476.cms||Venu Lanka
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||41 patients discharged from MR Bangur in a day||Kolkata: Amidst the negativity all around, 41 patients were discharged from MR Bangur Hospital on Saturday after being cured of Covid-19. This is a state record for highest single-day discharge in the past two months. The 41 survivors included 27 men and 14 women from Kolkata, Hooghly, East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas, all of whom had had an average hospital stay of 14 days. Now completely cured, they were handed over discharge certificates before being escorted out of the isolation wards to applause and cheers from fellow patients, doctors and health workers. “It is their day. These men and women have won the fight against the virus and have shown the world how the disease can be defeated with sheer grit and resilience. We, as doctors, were by their side to help them fight, but they are the real winners. Hence, we felicitated all of them with bouquets and sweets, along with the discharge certificates,” said Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of the hospital. At present, around 300-odd patients are still admitted at the hospital. “Most patients are responding to the treatment and we hope to see more days like today,” said another hospital official. According to protocol, a Covid-19 patient must test negative to the virus in two consecutive tests conducted within 24 hours during treatment. “Once this is over and we are satisfied with the infection-control part, they are ready to be discharged. But even after discharge, patients need to stay in home isolation for another two weeks and follow the prescribed guidelines before being considered absolutely fit,” said a doctor. Before Saturday, the single-day discharge record at the hospital was on April 27 when 12 people were discharged at once. So far, 184 patients have recovered in the state and have been sent home from hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/41-patients-discharged-from-mr-bangur-in-a-day/articleshow/75512223.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||T youth in UK forced to take shelter in park||Hyderabad: A Telangana student was forced to take shelter in a public park after his landlord ejected him out of a London apartment where he had taken accommodation with a few friends. With nowhere to go, Undadi Sai Kiran, who is pursuing MSC (international business) from University of Hertfordshire, sat in the Eastham Park with his luggage on Saturday. The 24-year-old son of a farmer from Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, got some much needed respite after the Telangana Development Forum in London came to his rescue, social worker Gampa Venugopal told TOI. Telangana Development Forum ensured that Kiran gets accommodation for at least a month. The forum members - Pilgili Srinivas Reddy, Bai Sravan Goud and Kamalakar Rao - have also promised to provide Kiran with provisions and essentials that will require during his stay. Kiran had initially wanted to fly back to India once the Covid-19 situation worsened in the United Kingdom. However, his plans went for a toss when the pandemic spread to the Indian subcontinent and flights were grounded last month after a nationwide lockdown was announced. With little money left, Kiran had shifted to an apartment with some more students who were in a similar situation as him. But when the house owner paid a sudden visit to the flat, he found that more than the permitted number of people were staying in a three bedroom house. Citing government rules, he asked four of the inmates, including Kiran, to immediately vacate the apartment. While students generally share accommodation to save some money, there is an upper limit on the number of people who can stay in one house in Britain. Even after being familiar with the regulations, the students were forced to adjust in the flat due to desperate situations caused by the pandemic. Kiran, who ran out of money, had nowhere to go but to the public park. Thankfully, the Telangana association offered him timely help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-youth-in-uk-forced-to-take-shelter-in-park/articleshow/75512669.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Alcoholic man kills father, held||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly stabbing his father to death in Yogeshwer Park locality of Jamnagar on Friday night. Police said the accused, identified as Deepak Gondalia (33), had stabbed his father Dwarkadas Gondalia (60), after the latter scolded him for sitting idle and his drinking habits. According to Dwarkadas’ wife Manju Gondalia, who lodged the complaint in the case, Deepak was unemployed and would spend his time on drinking alcohol. Angry at this, Dwarkadas would scold him, resulting in frequent quarrels between the father and the son.“On the fateful night, when Deepak came home, Dwarkadas picked up a fight with him. As the altercation escalated, Deepak went into his room and came out with a knife with which he stabbed Dwarkadas in his chest,” said J L Vaghela, inspector with Jamnagar A division police station. At present, the police have detained Deepak. Once his Covid-19 test is done, Deepak will be formally arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alcoholic-man-kills-father-held/articleshow/75511495.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Refused by hospitals, cancer patient dies||KOLKATA: Several hospitals in the city continue to turn away patients, leaving even critical ones without treatment. A 70-year-old cancer patient was refused admission by multiple hospitals last Thursday, leading to his death late that night. TOI had reported how the patient’s relatives, including a doctor, had struggled to secure a bed for him, but in vain. Intekhaf Chowdhury, a doctor and a relative of the cancer patient, had tried throughout Thursday to get the critically ill person hospitalized. His blood report suggested that he needed immediate treatment, said Chowdhury. The patient’s protein level and other vital parameters had deteriorated. Three hospitals on EM Bypass refused admission, said Chowdhury. The hospitals he visited were keen to avoid emergency admission due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the doctor said. “I could see his condition was fast deteriorating and that he needed immediate attention at a hospital. We helplessly watched him die and it has traumatized the family,” Chowdhury said. Since most hospitals are now operating on a reduced staff strength, they were evidently trying to keep the number of patients in check, Chowdhury observed. His repeated pleas to hospitals did not yield any result. “As a doctor, if I am unable to get a little favour for a relative, imagine what the rest of the population would be going through,” he said. Nasima Khatun, another patient suffering from diabetes and kidney ailments, died on Friday after failing to get admission at SSKM Hospital. Though doctors at the outdoor department at SSKM had advised her admission last Friday, no bed was available. Sukrit Bose, head and neck surgeon at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, felt these deaths could not be condoned and that the government must keep a vigil so that other moribund patients could get admission. “It is imperative to give priority to those who have contracted the novel coronavirus but at the same time, patients suffering from other major illnesses, like cancer, cardiac problems, kidney failure and respiratory distress, should also receive proper treatment.” Oncologist Indranil Khan said cancer patients were being refused by hospitals but the facilities needed to be more sensitive. “On one hand, we are reeling from the effects of novel coronavirus, on the other, patients suffering from other serious ailments are being refused treatment. The number of such patients is higher than those suffering from Covid-19. The state health department has to take action right now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refused-by-hosps-cancer-patient-dies/articleshow/75512666.cms||Debasis Konar
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Three AP high court judges take oath amid lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: The three newly-appointed judges of AP high court formally took charge on Saturday after Chief Justice J K Maheswari administered the oath to them in presence of limited invitees in view of the lockdown. With the appointment of Justice B Krishna Mohan, Justice K Suresh Reddy and Justice Kanneganti Lalita Kumari the strength of AP high court is now 21 as against the total sanctioned strength of 37. President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday notified the appointment of the three judges referred by the Supreme Court collegium on April 20. All three of them were selected for the position under advocates’ quota. Justice B Krishna Mohan was the first assistant solicitor general of AP high court. He hails from Boppudi village in Guntur district and his father Justice Anjaneyulu worked as a district judge. Justice Krishna Mohan began his career in 1989 and worked with senior counsels Krishna Kishore and Trivikrama Rao. Justice K Suresh Reddy, a native of Tarimela village in Anantapur district, received his law degree from Gulbarga University in Karnataka. He registered as an advocate in 1989 and worked as junior to T Balreddy in his initial days. Later, he started his own practice and argued many constitutional, civil and criminal matters. Justice Kanneganti Lalita Kumari, a native of Guntur. She has worked as standing counsel for endowments department, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam, Sri Venkateswara Vedic University, and Sanskrit Vidyapitham Central University in Tirupati. She has argued many constitutional, civil, criminal and service matters in her career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-hc-judges-take-oath-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75511486.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Cured, new mom returns with baby||Kolkata: When 24-year-old Nazma Begum tested positive to Covid-19 on April 12, she was 33-weeks pregnant. Now cured, the Howrah resident is back home with her baby who tested negative after birth. Nazma was discharged from hospital on Friday night. “I feel like I have conquered two battles — coming home alive and , and with my healthy newborn,” Nazma told TOI. The Jalapara resident had been referred to Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah’s Uluberia on April 13, a day after she tested positive. The doctors and nurses at the Covid-treatment hospital took exceptional care right from day one so that the would-be mother did not have any complication in the pregnancy. “My father-in-law was the first to test positive in the family and he passed away. Then another family member and I tested positive. I was worried for my unborn baby, my four-year-old-son and my husband. My son and husband had both been sent to quarantine,” Nazma said. “My husband had lost his left hand in an accident three years ago. So I worked as a domestic help to support the family. Though I was tense, I told myself to stay strong because if anything happened to me my family would be ruined,” she said. Nazma’s labour pain started in the isolation ward on the evening of April 20, eight days after she tested positive. A five-member team in PPE blanketed her and took her to the labour room. “The doctors assured me that nothing would go wrong. And they kept that promise,” Nazma recounted. At the hospital, she was trained how to touch or breastfeed the child to avoid transmitting the disease. “My baby was christened Armaan by the hospital medical director Dalia Mitra. Now my husband and elder son have are also back,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cured-new-mom-returns-with-baby/articleshow/75512227.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Doc tests -ve, but mother ostracized||Kolkata: A doctor from Behala’s Basudevpur who had started showing Covid symptoms after treating a senior state health department officer has finally returned home after testing negative to the disease. The doctor, with a fledging private practice in the area, though, has to stay in home quarantine. This has left his 94-year-old mother in some trouble. Though his mother stays in another locality almost 2km away from his residence, the local bank officials who had earlier taken her pension cheque to her doorstep, are now refusing to go near her. “They have refused help even though the doctor himself has maintained quarantine ever since he came in contact with the health official and has not visited his mother,” said Koustav Chatterjee, a CPM leader who had contested the assembly elections from Behala West. Chatterjee, a family friend, alleged that even vendors were refusing to sell items to her. “When his sister needed blood, it was an uphill task. The doctor told me over phone that the moment he will step out after quarantine, there is a possibility that people may run away,” he said. Locals around Bakultala and Duttor Math said the panic was amplified after the health official — also a doctor — passed away and his wife tested Covid positive. The local police said they had taken several steps after the Behala doctor got admitted and added that there was no reason to panic. “We will not let anyone harass a doctor. That is a priority. We are also hopeful that after a few days, we can get this spot into the green zone,” said an officer on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-tests-ve-but-mother-ostracized/articleshow/75512231.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Social distancing norm begins at home for this MMCRI director||MYSURU: For more than a month, Dr CP Nanjaraj, dean and director of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), who is shouldering the additional responsibility of heading the virology laboratory tasked with testing samples for the Covid-19 infection, has steadfastly been practising physical distancing at home. In addition to cloistering himself in a separate room at home, he has insisted on using silverware that is cleaned and saved separately. Dr Nanjaraj, whose family comprises his elderly parents, wife, a daughter and son, has made it clear to all of them that he needs to be at a safe distance away from them in order to minimise risk of transmitting the virus. The laboratory in Mysuru is testing throat swabs from four districts in addition to Mysuru: Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Mandya and Udupi. In addition to overseeing the testing process at the laboratory, Dr Nanjaraj’s other key responsibility is to coordinate with officials in Bengaluru, and visit the government-run Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital, Cheluvamba Hospital and the designated Covid-19 hospital on KRS Road. “Among the places I frequent are the designated covid hospital in the district and laboratory, not to mention the other state-run hospitals. I stay isolated at home, and on those rare instances when I join them for dinner, I keep a safe distance from them. These are some of the steps I have taken to prevent the eventuality of anyone at home contracting the infection,” Dr Nanjaraj told TOI. The virology laboratory at MMCRI started operations in February 2017. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, the laboratory has been functioning round-the-clock, with as many as 300 samples being tested, on average, every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mmcri-dean-heading-virology-lab-in-mys-starts-social-distance-from-home/articleshow/75510607.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai sees 174 new cases; Tamil Nadu toll at 29||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 positive count crossed 200 for the second day on Saturday and Chennai again had most of the cases — 174 out of 231. A 74-year-old woman admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died, taking the toll to 29 in the state, which has so far registered 2,757 cases. As the number of cases in Chennai crossed 1,257, the authorities stepped up safety measures for sanitary workers, conservancy staff, police, firemen and other frontline workers posted in containment zones across the city. “There are about 2,500 of them. All of them will be given PPEs. We will train them on how to use and dispose these kits safely to prevent infection,” said joint commissioner (Health) P Madhusudhan Reddy. The civic agency has also got government sanction to provide similar kits to all its doctors, nurses and health workers in primary health clinics and maternity hospitals.The Koyambedu market, where six more vendors tested positive, continued to be the source of the biggest cluster, with the effects being felt as far away as Ariyalur. “There were a few green grocers in Ariyalur, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur who tested positive. All of them had travelled to Koyambedu or had contact with traders there,” said a senior health department official. Chennai Corporation officials said that even amidst the lockdown more than 20% of people were on roads for providing essential services. “We are testing them even if they don’t have symptoms. This is to ensure they don’t carry the virus back to their families or into the community,” said a senior health official. As a part of that strategy, firemen, police and other frontline staff were screened. “Three firemen and three policemen tested positive. Other districts have also started testing frontline staff now,” said a senior health department official. On Saturday, nine people from Stringer Street in Periamet tested positive, cases were reported from clusters in Vyasarpadi and Royapuram. “We are also seeing high influx of cases from Arumbakkam area,” the official said. The line list of cases had a 67-year-old patient from Krishnagiri testing positive for the viral infection. But his name was not added to the state’s only green district. Instead, he is now being treated at Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem as an ‘imported’ case. “He has travelled to Puttaparthi in Andhra Pradesh earlier this week. He tested positive. He is now being treated in Salem. His contacts have been quarantined,” a senior official said. Krishnagiri, meanwhile, continued to remain green with zero cases. An intern from Stanley Medical College Hospital also tested positive. The number of active cases – the number of people admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 -- in the state continued to increase. From 809 on Monday, it touched 1,183 on Friday and 1,384 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-sees-174-new-cases-tn-toll-at-29/articleshow/75512675.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Double whammy: Residents of ward 31 struggle for water||MADURAI: B Selvi, a home maker from Devi Karumariamman Temple Street in ward 31, has been finding it difficult to run her family as the water supply in her area is inadequate and erratic. The piped water supply is only available once in a week, using which she can hardly fill a dozen pots. She gets water for an additional 20 more pots from a water tanker which turns up once a week. “The 32 pots of water are enough for only three days. The water level in the borewell has gone down and we cannot afford to purchase water which would cost Rs220 for every 1,000 litres,” she said. The residents in ward 31 of Madurai Corporation have been facing shortage of water for the past couple of weeks. As the ground water level has receded, most of them are solely dependent on the corporation for both drinking water and other purposes. Yagappa Nagar Main Road, VOC Street, Devi Karumariamman Street, Thiru Vi Ka Streets, Tahsildar Nagar, Siddhi Vinyaka Street, Kurunji Street and Vivekanandar Streets are the areas in the ward experiencing water scarcity. Residents are demanding two hours of uninterrupted supply of water once in three days through piped connections. Last year, when they experience the same problem, officials made sure Cauvery Combined Drinking Water is supplied properly to ward 31, which is an added area. Syed Ahamed Basha, a resident of Tahsildar Nagar, said that those who have strong residential associations exert pressure to receive water at regular intervals, while poor people are deprived. The pressure of the water supplied through the pipes is also low. “One more tractor should be allotted to our area to meet the growing water needs. With all members of a family staying at home due to the lockdown, water requirement has increased. Once the summer is over, officials should replace existing pipelines with wider ones to ensure smooth supply,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/double-whammy-residents-of-ward-31-struggle-for-water/articleshow/75512664.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||16-month old tests +ve, youngest from district||Nagpur: Twelve more persons, including a girl who is just 16 months old — district’s youngest so far — tested positive for Covid-19 on May 1 and 2 taking the tally to 150. An 18-month-old boy from Mominpura was the previous youngest positive case from Nagpur.The number of positives from Satranjipura, city’s first coronavirus hotspot, swelled to 97 — 64.66% of district’s total cases. Moreover, around 100 people were quarantined from Mominpura on Saturday night.The district registered its first case on March 11 and in 53 days has climbed to 150. While the first 50 took 35 days (March 11 to April 14), the second came in 10 days (April 15 to April 24) and the third in eight days (April 25 to May 2). However, NMC pegged the city tally at 145. Adding two from Chandrapur and one each from Kamptee and Kanhan, the district cases would be 149, 1 less than the DIO’s total. Of Saturday’s case, nine. including the baby, are from Satranjipura. Her mother had tested negative. However, she had to move in from the VNIT quarantine centre to IGGMCH’s Covid-19 isolation ward to be with her daughter. The NMC officials have not been able to trace the father.Two others who tested positive on Saturday are from Mominpura. A 28-year-old man is son of the deceased case from Mominpura. The son had tested negative when his 13 family members were positive between April 21 and 24. He was in institutional quarantine but was present during the cremation of his father on April 28. His samples were reportedly taken a second time on Friday. The number of cases from this family increased to 14.Another positive person from Mominpura is 35-year-old person who was quarantined as close contact of 28-year-old woman who delivered a baby girl at IGGMCH on April 29. Now the total positives from Mominpura is 29.Details of one person could not be known till the time of filing this report.The NMC has quarantined 76 people from Mominpura. Earlier, a 198 were quarantined from this locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-month-old-tests-ve-youngest-from-district/articleshow/75512665.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar colony sealed over corona-positive truck driver||Rudrapur: The district administration on Saturday sealed Rajeev Nagar colony in Bazpur, Udham Singh Nagar, a couple of days after a resident, a 53-year old truck driver, tested positive for the coronavirus and the area was declared a containment zone. The health department has quarantined 20 persons who came in contact with the patient and started the screening of the colony's residents. The patient started showing symptoms of the coronavirus on April 29 and was promptly admitted to the isolation ward at Jawahar Lal Nehru District hospital in the city. According to the district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailja Bhatt, the patient had traveled from Punjab to Bazpur via Haridwar. Sub divisional magistrate AP Vajpayee said, “We have now sealed the entire colony. The families will be supplied essential goods through a government vehicle. The process will be overseen by police personnel under directions of senior police and administrative officials, who have taken stock of the situation at the colony. We have also quarantined twenty people who came in contact with the victim.” Executive officer (EO) of the municipality Jagdish Chandra said, “Our medical staff is visiting and inspecting the families here. Those who experience symptoms will immediately be taken for treatment. Police have barricaded all entry and exit points of the colony. The buildings have been closed.” “The colony has been sanitized and divided into three sections. A picket with medics and police personnel has been set up at each of the sections,” said nodal officer Gaurav Pant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-colony-sealed-over-corona-positive-truck-driver/articleshow/75511489.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 3, 2020||Erode||Chennai sees 174 new cases; Tamil Nadu toll at 29||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 positive count crossed 200 for the second day on Saturday and Chennai again had most of the cases — 174 out of 231. A 74-year-old woman admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died, taking the toll to 29 in the state, which has so far registered 2,757 cases. As the number of cases in Chennai crossed 1,257, the authorities stepped up safety measures for sanitary workers, conservancy staff, police, firemen and other frontline workers posted in containment zones across the city. “There are about 2,500 of them. All of them will be given PPEs. We will train them on how to use and dispose these kits safely to prevent infection,” said joint commissioner (Health) P Madhusudhan Reddy. The civic agency has also got government sanction to provide similar kits to all its doctors, nurses and health workers in primary health clinics and maternity hospitals.The Koyambedu market, where six more vendors tested positive, continued to be the source of the biggest cluster, with the effects being felt as far away as Ariyalur. “There were a few green grocers in Ariyalur, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur who tested positive. All of them had travelled to Koyambedu or had contact with traders there,” said a senior health department official. Chennai Corporation officials said that even amidst the lockdown more than 20% of people were on roads for providing essential services. “We are testing them even if they don’t have symptoms. This is to ensure they don’t carry the virus back to their families or into the community,” said a senior health official. As a part of that strategy, firemen, police and other frontline staff were screened. “Three firemen and three policemen tested positive. Other districts have also started testing frontline staff now,” said a senior health department official. On Saturday, nine people from Stringer Street in Periamet tested positive, cases were reported from clusters in Vyasarpadi and Royapuram. “We are also seeing high influx of cases from Arumbakkam area,” the official said. The line list of cases had a 67-year-old patient from Krishnagiri testing positive for the viral infection. But his name was not added to the state’s only green district. Instead, he is now being treated at Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem as an ‘imported’ case. “He has travelled to Puttaparthi in Andhra Pradesh earlier this week. He tested positive. He is now being treated in Salem. His contacts have been quarantined,” a senior official said. Krishnagiri, meanwhile, continued to remain green with zero cases. An intern from Stanley Medical College Hospital also tested positive. The number of active cases – the number of people admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 -- in the state continued to increase. From 809 on Monday, it touched 1,183 on Friday and 1,384 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/city-sees-174-new-cases-tn-toll-at-29/articleshow/75516822.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 3, 2020||Madurai||MP’s plea to Pondy CM on chemical for matches units||Madurai: Congress MP from Virudhunagar constituency B Manickam Tagore has urged the Puducherry government to permit the production and dispatch of ‘potassium chlorate’ to the safety matches units in Tamil Nadu in order to protect the livelihood of lakhs of people dependent on this industry. In a representation sent to Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy, Tagore said that Virudhunagar is the major hub for manufacture of safety matches. He said that potassium chlorate, which is the major raw material for manufacture of safety matches, is procured from Karaikal region in Puducherry. He said that the Virudhunagar district administration officials have permitted the functioning of safety matches units as it falls under essential commodities category. All safety matches units are facing a major hurdle in continuing the production as they are running out of stock of potassium chlorate. The Puducherry government which is functioning effectively for the containment of Covid-19, is yet to permit the manufacture and dispatch of the chemical. Therefore, he urged Narayanasamy to direct the officials to permit the production and dispatch of potassium chlorate to the safety matches units in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mps-plea-to-pondy-cm-on-chemical-for-matches-units/articleshow/75512670.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||NIEPVD develops unique Covid awareness video||Dehradun: In a first of its kind, Dehradun-based National Institute for Empowerment of People with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD) has developed an innovative method to create awareness about Covid-19 among people with disabilities. The method developed by NIEPVD uses Odissi classical dance moves combined with Indian sign languages. These awareness videos are aimed at the disabled, especially those with hearing impairment. Nachiketa Rout, director of NIEPVD, said, “Covid-19 awareness materials are available in various formats across platforms. We wanted to make it inclusive for the Indian audience. We made it keeping in mind that it should be depictive, classical and cover people with disabilities as well. The story was formulated by an Odissi dancer and a sign-language interpreter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niepvd-develops-unique-covid-awareness-video/articleshow/75511503.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt staff to get salaries for lockdown period||Patna: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said on Saturday that the government would pay salaries to its officials, employees, contractual staff and those outsourced in various departments for the period of their absence from office for various reasons during lockdown from March 24 to May 3. Even the employees who travel daily by passenger trains and could not attend their offices would be paid their salaries. Further, officials who were on official tour with due permission but were stranded due to the lockdown would also enjoy the relief. Similarly, those who were absent without permission during the lockdown would also get their salaries as their absence is deemed as presence with sanction from a competent official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-staff-to-get-salaries-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/75511801.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Bengaluru||1918 influenza in Bangalore clipped Mysurean’s aviation dreams||BENGALURU: The Spanish flu also known as the influenza, which killed 18,674 people in Bangalore in 1918, snuffed the life out of a man who was on the verge of creating aviation history in India by building a biplane in Bangalore. History books describe Srirama Venkatasubba Setty alias SV Setty as an aviation genius from Karnataka (then Mysore State). In 1911-12, he was part of AV Roe and Company (AVRO) in England that built the biplane, Avro 500, which became the prototype for Avro 504, the outstanding military aircraft of World War 1. Setty is often described as India’s first aviator but he could not obtain his pilot’s licence as he didn’t complete the required flying hours in England and returned to India due to financial difficulties. Born in 1879 in Shivarampet, Mysore, to Rama Thippaiah Setty and Savitri Sakamma, a young Setty attended the Wesleyan Mission School. Passing out of Thomson College of Engineering, Roorkee, he joined the Mysore government services in 1906 as an assistant engineer. “In 1909, he received a scholarship from Faraday House in England to pursue a diploma in electrical engineering. With assistance from the Maharaja, he completed the two-year course in London,” said GN Jaya Prakash, great grandson of SV Setty and scientist at Gas Turbine Research Establishment in Bengaluru. First Indian pilot, almost Kannada history texts say Setty stayed in England to join AV Roe aerodrome in Brooklands as an unpaid apprentice from May 5, 1911. During the period, the Mysorean test flew biplanes for the famous aircraft-maker, mainly the Avro 500, and even made engineering changes to help the invention become a success. A work experience letter, in possession of Prakash, issued to Setty by AV Roe and Company in March 12, 1912, described the young pilot as industrious. Aviation legend Sir Edwin Alliott Verdon Roe himself wrote that Setty was a fine pilot who didn’t complete his flying time with the Royal Aero Club (RAeC). Sadly, Setty couldn’t manage his expenses in England and was forced to return to India without completing the flying time at RAeC, which would have gained him an Aviation Certificate and probably made him the first Indian licensed pilot in aviation history. Biplane dream With a gold medal for aeronautics excellence from AVRO, Setty reached Bangalore in August 1912 and was posted as superintendent of the newly established Institute of Mechanical Engineering. He then became the founder-professor of the School of Engineering in 1917, the first engineering college in the state which later was renamed University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering. “Despite all this, Setty dreamt of building a plane in his home state for his people. He approached the Mysore government in 1914 with a written proposal with detailed specifications to build a 1,000kg biplane but was denied permission as World War 1 broke out,” Jaya Prakash, who retrieved the original application from government archives, added. Death due to influenza When the deadly influenza hit Bangalore in September 1918, he and his family were infected by the virus and bedridden at their home at Malleswaram 5th Cross. They were shifted to Victoria Hospital where Setty died on October 12, 1918.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1918-influenza-in-bangalore-clipped-mysureans-aviation-dreams/articleshow/75512699.cms||Petlee Peter
May 3, 2020||Kochi||People more worried about life after Covid: Mental health study||Kochi: Though there were large concerns about the mental health and welfare of people sitting at home, most people suffered only mild stress caused by the uncertainty of the lockdown rather than Covid, according to a mental health study done by the department of psychology, Rajagiri College Of Social Sciences. The survey, using WhatsApp as the medium to share around 100 questions in both Malayalam and English was circulated among a large cross-section of the society in the state between April 15-20, just after the Centre extended the lockdown period till May 3. The study found that those who were most stressed were in the age-group of 35-45 years. Only 16% among the elderly were under severe stress. As for genders, the men had more anxiety and depression than women, more worried about the financial situation and the job crisis due to the weakened economy. “We did it as part of our research work and also because we have a teleconsultation helpline (9895343515) to reach out to people under stress and any mental health problem. The study looked at mental health (stress, anxiety, depression), coping, how relationships are faring and perceptions of the future,” said Jessy Fenn, principal investigator of the project with Sanju George, Noble Chacko, Fr Varghese K V and Tony Thomas being the others doing the analysis. Around 1,073 respondents participated with 42% males, 58% females in the age group of 15-75 years and incomes ranging from less than Rs 20,000 (16%) to more than Rs 80,000 (25%). According to the researchers, stress is a normal reaction to everyday pressures of life and some amount of stress is desirable and beneficial. But when it becomes more than what a person can handle, then it affects the functioning of the individual and is called distress. Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown has created stress from both external and internal causes: external — loss of job maybe, restrictions, reduced social contact, reduced comforts of life; and internal — fear of the disease, restlessness, etc. Fenn said that a perceived stress scale was used to measure stress and its scores reveal the level of stress and the percentage of the sample in each level. In short, 40% of the people are experiencing marked level of stress during this lockdown (moderate + high). The top two sources of stress were generalized anxiety about state of health, collapse of major world powers and what would happen in future. This was followed by worries closer home about financial condition, and future of job/ business of the respondent. “We did the survey when our death numbers were the lowest and hence anxiety regarding Covid came in the 6th place. Fear of dying, and fear of Covid was not so high. Loneliness, and loss of socializing which is one of the main worries in western countries was not as severe in India where people lived with families and close to others. Still, it was a problem for 26% of the people, and most were men,” she added. On how they coped, 75% said adopting Covid prevention methods, reading about Covid, increased communication, watching movies and reading books, jokes on social media, stocking food, being updated, sleeping. Praying came at number 11, with 32% saying that they are spending more time praying than usual. No stress 7% Mild stress 53% Moderate stress 37% High stress 3% No Depression & Anxiety 13% Mild levels of depression and anxiety 38% Moderate levels of depression and anxiety 28% High levels of depression and anxiety 21% No. Top Coping Strategies used 1 Adopting Covid prevention /hygiene measures -75% 2 Reading on Covid prevention - 61% 3 Increased communication with family -56% 4 Watching movies / Netflix/ reading - 54% 5 Reading jokes on social media - 50% 6 Stocking food and essentials - 49% 7 Being updated on Covid news - 52% 8 Increasing immunity/ health- 45.5% 9 Sleeping - 42% 10 Indulging in hobbies (cooking, gardening, gaming) - 41% Praying came as number 11 at 32%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/people-more-worried-about-life-after-covid-mental-health-study/articleshow/75511543.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||CM orders ‘urgent’ return of 1.5k students from Delhi||Kalyan: The Maharashtra government has decided to bring back around 1,500 students who had gone to Delhi to prepare for competitive exams such as UPSC and were unable to return home due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The decision was taken on Saturday after Kalyan MP Dr Shrikant Shinde alerted chief minister Uddhav Thackarey about the stranded students. The CM immediately ordered state officials to ensure their return. Shinde told TOI: “On Friday night, I learned around 1,500 students were stuck in Delhi. I spoke to some of them via video-conference. The students requested that they be allowed to return.” He said the CM directed the principal secretary to arrange for their evacuation on an “urgent basis”. Shinde said, “I have spoken to state officials who plan to arrange for special buses and trains to bring back the students.” He said around 37 students from Mumbai, 43 from Thane and 62 from Nagpur are among those stranded in Delhi. He further said all are likely to be back within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-orders-urgent-return-of-1-5k-students-from-delhi/articleshow/75512686.cms||Pradeep Gupta
May 3, 2020||Mysuru||Alternate day rule for shops in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar on Saturday ordered the closure of shops in Gandhi Bazaar in the district on alternate days in a bit to reduce crowding in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The order issued as per Centre’s guidelines instructs shops on the left of the Gandhi Bazaar to remain open on a day when those on the right shall remain closed and vice versa. The provisions shall apply only to Gandhi Bazaar and shall not apply to the merchants of other places in the city. Apart from Gandhi Bazaar, there are other streets in the city such as Nehru Road, BH Road, Durgigudi, Savalanga Road, Vinobanagara and other areas where small textile shops are open under certain conditions. Health minister’s meeting Health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu held a meeting with district officers and reviewed the action taken by the district administration to combat Covid-19. About Rs 80 crores have been released to pay the outstanding dues, including the outsourcing staff in the health department, he added. The minister also asked all DCs to conduct blood donation camps in their respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/alternate-day-rule-for-shops-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75511281.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Madurai||4 more cases take south TN Covid count to 421||Madurai: Two fire service personnel attached to the RS Mangalam fire station in Ramanathapuram tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 20. Apart from the two cases, Theni and Madurai reported one each on Saturday and put the tally at 421. The two firemen, aged 20 and 30, hailed from RS Mangalam and Thiruvadanai respectively. Meanwhile, a 19-year-old boy from R S Mangalam was discharged from the Sivaganga government hospital on Saturday. With these two new cases, the total number of active cases in the district went up to nine. In Theni district, the same day when it discharged five patients and became officially free of active cases, reported a fresh case. The district had otherwise not reported a new case since April 17. On Saturday, a 50-year-old lady, who sells idlis in her house in Bodi town tested positive for Covid-19. She was identified through random sampling being done in Theni district in the containment zones. This random sampling method was started in Bodi municipality where three medical teams conducted the sampling using the mobile sampling facilities. The woman was among the 413 random samples collected by them. Now, samples have been obtained from 106 persons including seven of her family members, her neighbours and persons who visited her eatery. The district had registered 43 covid-19 cases of which one woman succumbed. The last of the 42 patients were discharged on Saturday and they were given a grand farewell by the hospital staff. In Madurai, a 35-year-old man from Sellur, which is a containment zone, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Health officials said that efforts are on to trace contacts of the man. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), a 25-year-old woman from Melur Taluk, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, delivered a healthy child on Saturday. She became the third Covid-19 positive pregnant woman from Madurai to deliver a child through C-section at the hospital after a 24-year-old woman from Usilampatti and a 27-year-old woman from Anuppanadi Road, Teppakulam. Samples of the newborn will soon be taken and sent for testing. Hospital authorities confirmed that the test results of both the other two newborns are negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-more-cases-take-south-tn-covid-count-to-421/articleshow/75512673.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Advised by govt, health facilities gear up to resume ‘normalcy’||Kolkata: Private hospitals in the city are readying their SOP as they look to resume “normal” patient care by Monday. While hospitals have started convening meeting on how to go about it, the final blueprints are unlikely to emerge before Monday. But all hospitals said they planned to restart OPDs and elective surgeries by middle of next week. “The patient count drastically dropped after the lockdown was imposed but we have never really shut our services. Now that the government has asked us to resume normal services, we expect patients to start turning up. The hospital administration will hold a meeting with senior doctors on Monday and chalk out a plan on how to resume services in full swing,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. The health department on Friday issued a directive to all private health facilities, asking them to set themseved a deadline and resume services within that. The department also designated Sanjay Basal, secretary of health and family department, as the nodal officer for it. The government even said if private hospitals failed to comply with the advisory, they might invite penal action under the Clinical Establishment Act. “Our clinical licence officer is speaking to all private hospitals to learn their requirements and problems. A few suggestions have been given, like a tie-up with the transport department to arrange for their workforce’s commute,” said a health department official. Hospitals said they had shut OPD, held online consultancy and deferred elective surgery, based on government advisory. Fear among patients and even some doctors to visit hospitals could still be a challenge, a hospital official said. “We have a final meeting on Monday and we will come up with a blueprint on how to resume normal services, including contacting patients whose elective surgeries have been deferred,” said a spokesperson for AMRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/advised-by-govt-health-facilities-gear-up-to-resume-normalcy/articleshow/75512687.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||SCERT releases 4-week syllabus for students||Dehradun: The State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has released a syllabus plan for four weeks to all the schools in Uttarakhand for students of class 1-8. “The SCERT on Friday sent us a four-week syllabus for class 1-8, which we have duly circulated to all the district education officers of Uttarakhand. The syllabus has been made in a way that helps students utilize their study time well, since the schools are closed,” Seema Jaunsari, director of SCERT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scert-releases-4-week-syllabus-for-students/articleshow/75511515.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Timber research centre to become a reality||Rajkot: Indian Plywood Industries Research and Training Institute (IPIRTI), the apex research body for timber and plywood industries, is ready to lend technical support if the state government and Kandla Timber Association (KTA) join hands to set up a timber research centre at the furniture park of Deendayal Port Trust (DPT). IPIRTI officials had given a commitment in this regard during a training seminar held in Kandla recently. KTA has been demanding a research centre in Kutch considering the fact that 70 per cent country’s imported timber comes via Kandla port. Most of the manufacturing units in Kandla and Gandhidham in Kutch district deal in solid timber. KTA sources said there are over 2,000 sawmills and 100 plywood factories in Kandla and that the import value of timber is worth Rs7,000 crore per annum.IPIRTI director M P Singh told TOI, “KTA has been demanding for some time that that the central government set up an IPIRTI centre at Kandla. A decision will be taken on this by the central government in due course of time, but meanwhile we have suggested that if KTA along with the state government sets up a timber research centre, we are ready to provide technical assistance.” IPIRTI works under ministry of environment and forests and conducts research on timber, plywood manufacturing process and allied engineering. The institute also provides training to workers and conducts a postgraduate course.IPIRTI has suggested to KTA that it should go for a composite centre, which will not only provide training to workers in the wood sector but also help in capacity building. KTA vice-president Hemchandra Yadav said, “The state government has a deposit of Rs20 crore which was collected from us as licence fee. This amount should be utilized by the state government to set up the timber research centre in Kandla. The centre will also act as a testing facility for our products before their export. The centre will open doors for manufacturing of several other products.”DPT has set up a furniture park on 100 acre land and wants to turn Kandla into a furniture hub of the country. DPT chairman S K Mehta said, “We had offered them help in the setting up of the centre during the seminar held in Kandla. We will decide on giving land for IPIRTI centre at a reasonable rate on receiving an official proposal. The IPIRTI centre will give a boost to the timber industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/timber-research-centre-to-become-a-reality/articleshow/75511528.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Survivor nurse ready to serve||KOLKATA: Debjani Dey left her Agartala home for Kolkata just about five months ago to work as a nurse. In mid-April, the 23-year-old tested positive to Covid-19 while caring for patients in the nephrology ICU at Charnock Hospital where a few patients had tested positive. Now a corona survivor, the nurse is waiting to complete her 14-day mandatory home isolation after discharge so she can go back to work. “Why would I shun my profession just because I got infected? This risk is a part of my profession. I am eager to go back to work and will go on tending to patients,” Dey told TOI. The nurse now wants to donate her plasma to help other patients. “I hope I am eligible to donate my plasma because I want to do my bit if any hospital or organization starts conducting clinical trials for this therapy,” she said. During her treatment at MR Bangur Hospital, not for once did she let fear or nervousness overcome her. Dey kept telling herself that she had to be back on her feet so that she could return to work. “In addition to tending to the sick, a part of my profession is to encourage patients and instil confidence in them, which makes their battles easier. I did that to myself. My parents back in Agartala were more worried and anxious compared to me,” she said. Now back in her rented flat in Tegharia, she regularly talks to her parents either on the phone or via video calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/survivor-nurse-ready-to-serve/articleshow/75512235.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Seven-year-old raped in Rohtas, one held||PATNA: A 55-year-old man was arrested on Saturday in Rohtas district for allegedly raping his seven-year-old niece. The victim is undergoing treatment at Sasaram Sadar hospital where her condition is stated to be critical. The police said accused Moin Khan had escaped after committing the crime on Friday evening. Rohtas police station SHO Samrat Singh said Moin took advantage of the victim’s family members’ engagements in ‘Roza’ and took her to his room and raped her. Later, the girl narrated her ordeal to her parents. As the news spread in the village, the accused fled and took shelter in the house of a close relative at Manu village. “The police arrested him from there on Saturday morning and sent to jail,” Singh said. “The girl’s statement will be recorded in the court after her condition improves. She is not in a condition to get her statement recorded,” an investigating officer said. The local residents demanded stern action against the accused. “The accused should be hanged to death. We want speedy justice,” said a close relative of the rape survivor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-year-old-raped-in-rohtas-1-held/articleshow/75511824.cms||Ramashankar
May 3, 2020||Madurai||Non-emergency patients now more worried||Madurai: With public transport remaining shut, concerns have been raised over healthcare for non-emergency patients in hospitals, both government and private in Madurai as the district continues to remain in the red zone. Doctors from both government and private hospitals observed that footfall for outpatient departments, which have slowly opened up as per normal during the past few days, had greatly reduced in number. “We are open for our patients to reach us at any time. However, currently, because of restrictions in movement, the footfall of outpatients has been less. The major issue is the lack of public transport, because some, especially those from low income sections who come only to government hospitals, can afford only public transport,” said Dr J Sangumani, dean, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Many of those who visit GRH as outpatients also include those from rural areas in the periphery of the district, whose main mode of transport is buses or share autos, which is suspended. During lockdown, priority is given to only emergencies like trauma cases, deliveries and other life-threatening cases whereas all elective treatments and surgeries were postponed. Many hospitals and doctors had started staying in touch with patients and provided consultations over phone calls or video calls. “There is no big or small illness. Some may fear visiting hospitals and try to self-medicate for their symptoms, which is dangerous. Tele consultations are only temporary fixes because for accurate diagnosis, hospital visits are required. We have already crossed a month of strict lockdown. Hospital visits for outpatients need to be facilitated for all,” said a general physician, who did not want to be named. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/non-emergency-patients-now-more-worried/articleshow/75512678.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Dehradun||Schools that skip online classes cannot demand fees||Dehradun: After receiving several complaints from parents, the state education department on Saturday released an order, stipulating that schools that aren’t conducting online classes cannot demand any kind of fees from its students. The order also stated the payment of fees is optional and only the parents who are well off can foot it. If a student is unable to pay fees during the lockdown, they cannot be excluded from online classes. The order specifies that schools are only allowed to take tuition fees and cannot charge for any other services. Also, the order asks schools to make sure payment to their staff is not discontinued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-that-skip-online-classes-cannot-demand-fees/articleshow/75511524.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Random sampling shows cases growing in West||Ahmedabad: Over the past 12 days the western part of the city has seen a dramatic jump of 259% in the number of Covid-19 cases, higher than in the eastern part of the ciy — which was roughly 232% during the same period. This jump in Covid-19 cases also reflects that people have been ignoring warnings of staying indoors. On Saturday, a simple random sampling in Jodhpur ward led health officials to isolate 12 Covid-19 cases from just Swami Vivekanand Society. A little distance from there, health officials isolated one case each from Anupam Society and Suryanagar Flats, while in Godrej city township, three new cases were identified. Of the 245 cases isolated in the city on Saturday, 47 cases were reported from just the western part of the city. Till Saturday morning 3,278 Covid-19 cases were reported from the city of which 485 cases, which is roughly 15%, were reported from the western part of the city. “Most of the cases were asymptomatic. We had taken over 1,700 random samples in the last two days from Bodakdev, Gota and Thaltej areas and then on Saturday 75 more societies were screened,” said a senior municipal official. On Sunday, Ghatlodia and Chandlodia wards will be screened said a health official. The fact of few cases being reported from these areas prompted municipal officials to conduct random sampling. Every second and fourth society was screened in these areas to gauge penetration of the infection. The official figures reveal how Bodakdev, which had just 10 cases on April 19, saw a 160% increase by May 2 with 26 cases. Similarly, Jodhpur ward saw a rise from 5 cases to 28 cases in the same period a 460% rise, similarly Ghatlodiya saw a 550% rise, Thaltej saw an 88% rise, Vasna saw a rise from a single case to 20 cases. When it came to active cases, the three posh zones of the city also saw a dramatic rise within a week. The North-West zone saw cases rise from 29 cases on April 26 to 72 cases on May 2, while in South-West zone saw a 45% rise in cases during the same period. At the same time the Central zone of the city, which is the Walled City saw a 37% rise in number of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/random-sampling-shows-cases-growing-in-west/articleshow/75512741.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Supermarkets turn meeting spots in city amid lockdown||Hyderabad: Thanks to the lockdown, friends and family members are planning reunions at the most unlikeliest of places supermarkets across the city. These stores have turned new meeting points for people, who have been cooped up at home for the past few weeks. “I have not met my friends for over a month. So I planned to meet them at a supermarket in Banjara Hills. That way we could shop as well as meet each other,” said Radhika Rao (name changed). “We took all precautions such as wearing masks as we spent time together,” she said. Not just friends, stores have also become hot spots for those dating. “My parents would not allow my girlfriend to come out and meet me, so we decided to catch up on the pretext of shopping for essentials at a supermarket in Himayath Nagar,” said Akshay Reddy (name changed). While some say this personal touch would help beat the ‘stay-at-home-blues’, others feel this is developing into a dangerous trend that must be nipped in the bud. “I have noticed many people planning to meet at stores. This is leading to overcrowding at some outlets,” said Harish Daga, a city-based activist. Citing an example at Rajendranagar, Harish said that he overheard people who had planned to meet at a grocery outlet. “Since early morning, hoards of people gathered there and there was no social distance maintained which can be quite dangerous in this pandemic situation,” he said. Many fear that the new trend many result in the spread of infection.Another resident Ramesh Reddy, who lives in AS Rao Nagar, said: “Just the other day I noticed a get-together by a couple of men at a store in our area. When I went and confronted them, they just said they were speaking for a moment. What they do not realise is all it takes is a little time to catch or spread the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/supermarkets-turn-meeting-spots-in-city-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75512682.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada launches online registration for one-time interstate movement||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday issued guidelines for one-time inter-district and inter-state passenger movement. Only those who have no symptoms of Covid-19 will be allowed to travel. Those who want to travel to other states will have to submit an application by logging on to sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in and register their names. Applicants may also visit gram panchayat offices, municipalities, taluk offices, Mangaluru City Corporation zonal offices, Mangaluru One or Nada Kacheri in case they need assistance for registering online, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. “All submitted applications will be processed at the state level. If the receiving state concurs, then permission to travel will be given by the government of Karnataka. Permitted passengers will be facilitated to travel after receiving instruction from the state government nodal officer. Passengers will have to bear their travel expenses,” the DC said. For those who want to make one-time travel to other districts, they should submit application at the nearest police stations in rural areas and at the office of the assistant commissioner of police in the city limits. City police commissioner and the superintendent of police will process the applications in their respective jurisdictions, the DC said. All approved passengers will undergo a screening by health authorities, the DC added. KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller S N Aruna said the division is prepared to transport people based on the guidelines of the government. Passengers returning to DK from other states Passengers from other states who want to return to Dakshina Kannada should may log on to sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in to register their names. Applications will be examined by nodal officers appointed by the government. The officers will also consult the host state and finalise the list of passengers. Buses (government or private) or trains will ferry the returnees and they will have to bear their travel expenses, said the DC. All returnees will be kept under home quarantine or institutional quarantine based on medical advice after screening. Local body will be responsible for enforcement of quarantine rules and regular health check-up, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-launches-online-registration-for-one-time-interstate-movement/articleshow/75510666.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three more 100-bed Covid-19 care centres in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has set up three 100-bed covid care centres — in Gomtipur, Jamalpur, and near Pirana. The AMC has also decided that hotel facility will be extended to Covid warriors if they test positive and have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. This facility will also be given to the police staff on Covid duty. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that mayor Bijal Patel and standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt, in consultation with him, have decided that if any Covid warrior is found positive he or she will first be offered the home quarantine option. If that is not feasible, the person will be shifted to a four-star or five-star hotel. The Covid warriors will include doctors, nurses, Class III or IV employees of the AMC, and police staff. The expenses of treatment will be borne by the AMC. Giving details of the three new Covid care centres, Nehra said that Al Amin Garibnawaz General hospital in Gomtipur which has a 100-bed capacity has been converted into a Covid care centre. Treatment here will be free. Moreover, an infectious disease hospital has also been converted into a Covid care centre. Other patients have been transferred elsewhere. The AMC and trustees of the Chippa community centre in Jamalpur have decided to convert it into a 100-bed Covid care centre. All the three hospitals have begun operations. Nehra said that all citizens should now observe the lockdown for the next 14 days to get good results by May-end. “We should follow the rules and stay indoors unless it is imperative to venture out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-more-100-bed-care-centres/articleshow/75512696.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Priests upset as LMA seals entry to Hanuman temple||Secunderabad: The local military authorities’ (LMA) move to close the entry to the centuries-old Hanuman Temple in Secunderabad, has upset its priest and devotees. They say that no abhishekams and archanas are being performed at the temple as the LMA has sealed the lone entry/exit to the shrine located in Lal Bazar, inSecunderabad Cantonement. While the government has banned the entry of devotees to temples, priests are allowed to perform daily rituals. “It has been five days since the entry was closed. We don’t know the exact reason,” said S Anil Kumar, president, Bhaktanjaneya Swamy Temple committee that manages the temple, adding, “Though devotees are barred from entering temples due to lockdown, daily poojas are being performed by priests all over the country. The military authorities have neither contacted us nor served a notice before sealing the templw.” The priest said this is the first time since the temple was established that no rituals are being performed, because of the LMA’s move. “We request army officials to follow the guidelines and allow priests,” said N Jagannath, a resident of Lal Bazar, making an appeal on behalf of its priest. TOI’s repeated attempts to reach LMA for a comment failed to yield any result. “I have sought a reply from the senior defence officials over this issue, but have not received anything so far,” the chief public relations officer, defence, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/priests-upset-as-lma-seals-entry-to-hanuman-temple/articleshow/75512694.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops to issue e-Pass for workers, others||HYDERABAD: The Telangana police on Saturday announced that they will issue e-Pass for migrant labourers and others, who intend to go to their native states. Senior Telangana police officers told STOI that the passes would be issued to persons interested to travel to their native places within a few hours after they apply for the e-Pass. “Dear Citizens Who Got Stranded in Telangana due to #LockDown & want to leave for their Homes in other States in India can Apply for E-PASS by submitting required information @ the given link. https://tsp.koopid.ai/epass After due verification ur E-PASS will b sent to u, to move ahead (sic),’’ director general of police M Mahendar Reddy said in a tweet. Additional DGP (law & order) Jitender told STOI that this pass would be issued to those persons using transport other than trains. “For people who want to go by train, we are making an assessment about the number of people in need of this service and their present location so that we can facilitate for their hassle-free travel to their native places,’’ he said. After a batch of migrant labourers was sent to Jharkhand in a train from Lingampally station, a large number of persons started thronging various police stations in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates. They sought passes to allow them to go by road. “We started issuing passes to people who fall under the category of stranded labourers,’’ Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. From now on, everyone intending to go back to their native places will have to apply for the e-Pass. Meanwhile, some construction labourers working at a construction site in Tellapur protested, alleging that they were not being allowed to leave. On knowing about the unrest, Cyberabad police rushed there, pacified them and said they would help in facilitating their travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-issue-e-pass-for-workers-others/articleshow/75512705.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Eagle stuck in Chinese manja on tree rescued||Hyderabad: An eagle which was entangled in Chinese manja on a tree at Ashok Nagar was rescued on Saturday. According to animal welfare activists, the bird had been stuck on the 60-feet tree for the past two days. “I and another volunteer Vamshi rushed to the spot. We knew that it would be a challenging rescue and would need technical assistance,” said Paneeru Teja, a volunteer with Humane Society International/India “Fire department and GHMC rescued the bird in a joint effort. GHMC officials brought the machine used to fix streetlights,” said Teja. The eagle, which suffered multiple cuts was given first aid and rushed to the zoo for treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eagle-stuck-in-chinese-manja-on-tree-rescued/articleshow/75512706.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus: 9 return from Maharashtra, test positive; 1 dies in Deoria||LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR: Migrants coming from other states emerged as new challenge for health officials as seven of them testes positive in Basti. In another case, one of the four people who came to Mumbai in a hired ambulance on April 29, died while two tested positive. According to Basti district administration, 13 people had come from MP in government buses on April 28 and had been kept at a quarantine centre. They had started from Maharashtra and stranded in MP. On Wednesday, they brought to to Basti via Jhansi by a government bus and were quarantined at an inter college in Haraiya area of the district. As per reports which arrived on Saturday, seven out of 13 were found to be positive. All the seven Covid positive patients are labourers and are undergoing treatment at L1 Hospital in Munderwa, the DM said. The four who reached Deoria had hired an ambulance from Mumbai to evade checking and reached Deoria on April 29 flouting lockdown norms. They reached home in two days travelling almost round-the-clock, but one of them Kedar Jaiswal died the next day. Two others tested positive for novel coronavirus infection while the fourth was negative. All the four were residents of Farenda village under Tarkulwan police station area in Deoria. SHO, Tarkulwan, Pradeep Sharma, said the incident came to light on April 30 when policemen spotted villagers taking out funeral procession to the banks of Gandak river on outskirts of the village. The police team informed their senior officers after which a police team reached the village and found that four migrants, including Kedar, had returned from Mumbai the day before. “A health team reached the spot and took samples of the three migrants who had returned,” said Deoria district magistrate Amit Kishore. The samples of 36 persons who took part in Kedar’s funeral were taken along with those of the families of the four migrants, the DM added. On questioning, the trio told police that Kedar, who worked in a saree factory, was unwell so they hired an ambulance for Rs 20,000 to reach Deoria, said Kishore. “When we got reports of the three migrants one aged 35, and the second aged 45 tested positive, while the third is negative,” he added. The families of all the four have been quarantined while the whole village and its adjoining area were sanitised. As many as 50 samples of others have been sent to BRD medical college in Gorakhpur, the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-return-from-maha-test-ve-1-dies-in-deoria/articleshow/75512960.cms||Arjumand Bano
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||3 Nagpada cops test +ve on day workers land up to submit forms||Mumbai: On a day dozens of migrant workers gathered at Nagpada police station to submit forms for permission to travel to their hometowns, three constables, including two women cops, from the chowky tested positive for Covid-19 and were sent on institutional quarantine. The positive reports led to panic at the police station and cops were seen telling the visitors to strictly maintain social distancing. Mohammed Jeelani, a migrant from Bihar who had lost a hand in an accident years ago, was in the queue at the police station. “I have worked in a zari unit in Mumbai for 14 years, but now I just want to go back home to be with my family,” he said. Meanwhile, those who were in close contact with the three constables are being subjected to tests too. Nagpada police station falls under the BMC’s E Ward, which is already a red zone area with several coronavirus cases. So far, more than 65 police personnel in the city have tested positive for the virus, three of whom died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-nagpada-cops-test-ve-on-day-workers-land-up-to-submit-forms/articleshow/75512708.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded Pak citizens set to return home||Nagpur: In a joint effort, the Pakistani high commission and the union ministry of external affairs (MEA) have arranged the evacuation of a batch of 193 Pakistani citizens stranded in India. The list has majority of Hindus who had mainly come here on a pilgrim visa. Of these 49 are held up in Nagpur. At the same time, a number Pakistani citizens living in India on a long-term visa (LTV) remain to be stranded in Pakistan. They had gone back to Pakistan on a return visa for brief visits. Overstaying in Pakistan may even hamper their chance of getting Indian citizenship under the CAA now. Those stranded here are from the Ghotki district in Sindh province of Pakistan and were in the Jaripatka locality where already a number of Hindus from Pakistan stay. “They were supposed to go between March 19 but then the borders were closed and they have now been stranded for over a month,” said Rajesh Jhambia, leader of Sindh Hindi Panchayat and also a former Pakistani citizen. The exercise has been coordinated by Jhambia. “We took up the matter with the Pakistani high commission from where it was further taken up with the MEA here. In 15 days the approvals were granted,” said Jhambia who was trying to get the final approval from the local authorities. Even as many of the Hindus even prefer to get Indian citizenship, the group here was eager to get back at the earliest. “My two daughters have been left there. There are many who have their children back in Pakistan,” said an anxious Satyavan Chawla from Sindh province. “They will have to stay for 14 days in quarantine at Lahore before they take up further journey,” said Jhambia. Before leaving India the group will also have to get a medical test done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-pak-citizens-set-to-return-home/articleshow/75512272.cms||Shishir Arya
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five test positive in Sabarmati jail||Ahmedabad: The precautions taken by the Ahmedabad central jail administration saved them from a massive problem, as four persons accused of rioting and sent to the jail by Gaekwad Haveli police station, who stated that they were not infected, were found to be Covid-19 positive on Friday. Another prisoner, who is accused of murder and was on interim bail, presented himself to the jail authorities on April 20. He also turned out to be infected with Covid-19. Two prisoners had earlier tested positive, taking the total number of infected prisoners to seven. According to senior jail officials, on April 30, the four persons accused of rioting were sent to Ahmedabad Central Prison by Gaekwad Haveli police station. A senior jail official said “Police had taken the accused to the urban health centre in Madhavpura and got them certified Covid-19 negative from there. However, we insisted on a certificate from a proper Covid-19 hospital and not from a rapid testing test. Senior officers of that zone insisted that as there are no guidelines mandating that prisoners be tested in hospitals, they should take the prisoners. It was 9.30pm and we had to accept them. The same night, a prisoners who had obtained an interim bail on April 22, 2020 presented himself. We put all five in isolation,” he added. According to sources from the central jail, the five were sent to Civil Hospital for Covid-19 tests on Friday. “All five tested positive and we then got them admitted to the hospital,” a source in the Ahmedabad Central Prison added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-test-positive-in-sabarmati-jail/articleshow/75512715.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre appoints Ananda Bose to prepare action plan for guest workers||Thiruvananthapuram: Union ministry of labour affairs has appointed retired civil servant C V Ananda Bose as one-man commission to prepare an action plan for the welfare and development of guest and contract workers in the context of Covid-19 outbreak. Regarded an expert in labour and industries relations, Bose is a retired Malayali IAS officer close to the NDA government in the Centre. “C V Ananda Bose, veteran IAS officer and expert in labour and industrial relations, has been appointed as one-man expert commission by the contract labour advisory board of the ministry of labour, Government of India, to prepare an action plan for the welfare and development of the migrant labour and contract workers in the context of Covid-19,” a statement announcing his appointment said. Bose is known for his initiatives in the field of labour and industrial management. He had served as principal secretary (labour), Kerala, and was elected as the vice-president of the standing committee of the Indian Labour Conference. “Bose has a track record of more than 30 years in the field of labour management. Presently Bose is principal adviser to National Heritage Project implemented by the Government of India through corporates. He has won 31 national and international awards, including UN Global Best Practice (four times), National (special) Habitat Award of the Govt of India and the prestigious Jawahar Lal Nehru Fellowship,” the statement said. On May Day, Bose held detailed discussions with the representatives of labour unions, employers and senior officers of the ministry of labour on the short-term and long-term measures to be taken to mitigate the sufferings of the guest workers and other workmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-appoints-ananda-bose-to-prepare-action-plan-for-guest-workers/articleshow/75511569.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman tests positive, Bopal count now 10||Ahmedabad: With a positive case reported from Iscon Platinum, the authorities say the total number of cases in Bopal has increased to 10. The woman from Iscon Platinum who tested positive is currently admitted at a hotel on Ambli-Bopal Road. According to Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika president Jigna Shah, the woman had gone for a visit near Shreyas Crossing 10 days ago. However, she said that is not the only possibility from where she might have contracted the infection. She had also come into contact with and had bought fruits from a vendor at the gate of the society. In order to ensure there weren’t other cases in the society, the nagarpalika collected some 50 samples including samples from those residents who had contact with the woman. Shah said the nagarpalika has commenced a drive to check vegetable vendors and shopkeepers. The news of a positive case in Iscon Platinum had created fear among the residents as the news spread in the local social media group of the society. Sources in the nagarpalika said that on Thursday a woman and her daughter-in-law, both residents of Kadamb Flats were found positive. According to officials sources, the daughter-in-law has informed the hospital officials that she never went out even to purchase vegetable or any grocery and didn’t come in contact with anyone in the society. However, her mother-in-law had regularly gone out to get milk and vegetables from the nearby parlour. The vegetable vendor said she used to come to the gate of the society. An officer of the nagarpalika said help should be sought from the AMC for random sampling as done in Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-tests-positive-bopal-count-now-10/articleshow/75512736.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Wash hands every 2 hrs for 20-30 seconds’||Ahmedabad: On May 1, several top government officials took the pledge and motivated others to take the pledge of washing hands frequently as a measure against Covid-19. Dr Pranjal Modi, SOTTO coordinator for Gujarat and head of liver transplant at IKDRC-ITS, said that the best way to stay safe is to wash the hands every two hours. “Where possible, we can have warning sirens or bells every two hours to remind people to wash hands. As it’s a public knowledge now, the virus can be killed by thorough washing of hands for 20-30 seconds,” he said. Dr Modi said that the advisable method is to use 5 ml liquid soap and keep rubbing both hands till the soap gets dry. Wash hands with the tap water after 30 seconds. “Alternatively, liquid soap solution could be made by dissolving soap in 1 litre water. Every two hours, dip both hands in the water and wash hands with tap water. The same solution can be used 3-4 times a day,” said Dr Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wash-hands-every-2-hrs-for-20-30-seconds/articleshow/75512718.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hubballi||Discharge of 5 patients brings down active cases to 58 in Belagavi||BELAGAVI: Five Covid-19 patients, including four women, were discharged from the designated Covid hospital here on Friday, taking the total number of those discharged to 15 in Belagavi. With this, the number of active cases in the district stands at 58. The patients P-282, P-283 P-285, P-286 and P-288, were discharged from the Belagavi Institute of Medical Science (BIMS), amidst cheer and applause. Their speedy recovery has boosted the morale of doctors and paramedical staff at the hospital. The day also saw a 22-year-old man from Belagavi city being admitted to the hospital to be treated for Covid-19. With the addition of P-596, the total number of people who contracted Covid-19 in the district, stands at 73.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/discharge-of-5-patients-brings-down-active-cases-to-58-in-belagavi/articleshow/75510696.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Agra||CMS & 13 docs among 39 health workers shifted to quarantine facility after ‘action’||Agra: A day after Mathura police registered an FIR against 13 staffers of Government District Combined Hospital who fled from a quarantine centre in Vrindavan, all medicos, including the 13 doctors and chief medical superintendent (CMS), were shifted from the hospital to a quarantine centre on Saturday. Earlier, all of them had refused to go to a quarantine facility and had insisted to stay at the district hospital instead. According to health officials, around 25 health workers, including nurses and ward boys, 13 doctors and Vrindavan’s CMS KK Gautam had come in contact with one of the district combined hospital’s ward boy who had tested positive for Novel Coronavirus on April 28 and a woman patient who died in the hospital. Samples of all health workers, including doctors, have been taken for Covid-19 test.Mathura district administration has also issued a notice to the doctor who was found roaming outside the hospital where he was supposed to be in quarantine. Video of the incident went viral on social media. In the footage, policemen could be seen calling out to the doctor to go back to the hospital but he kept walking. When the cops tried to follow him, he started running. However, he was caught after a brief chase. When policemen threatened to complain against him to the chief medical officer (CMO) and the chief minister, he identified himself and claimed that he had gone out to purchase butter. He also said that he had tried to escape as he was scared of being stopped.Talking to TOI, DM Sarvagya Ram Misra said that the health department has issued a notice to the doctor and further action will be taken after getting a reply. He added that the administration has tightened lockdown restrictions in the old city areas from where maximum cases have been reported. “I inpect the hotspots along with the SSP twice a day to assess the situation,” he said. He said that on Saturday, the administration received 4,657 migrant workers who came in special buses from various districts of Rajasthan. Of these, 3,000 have been sent to their districts in the state after thermal screening. Meanwhile, three more persons, including two men aged 58 and 32 and a woman, 58, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total tally to 27 in the district. The woman is the family member of one of the patients who had tested positive earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cms-13-docs-among-39-health-workers-shifted-to-quarantine-facility-after-action/articleshow/75511575.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jaipur||956 students from Kota leave for Dhanbad in train||Jaipur: A day after sending migrant workers and students to their home states from Jaipur and Kota respectively, the Rajasthan government in collaboration with North Western Railways (NWR) sent a train carrying 956 students from Kota to Dhanbad on Saturday. Two other trains, including one from Ajmer to Kolkata and another from Pali to Surat, were planned to depart. However, they could not chug off due to fewer passengers. According to authorities, a train carrying nearly 1,200 students was planned to leave from Kota to Dhanbad. “The train left at 9.30pm on Saturday with 956 students. We have arranged food for the students,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner, Rajasthan, who is coordinating with the authorities of NWR. Jain said, two other trains were planned to depart from Ajmer to Kolkata and another from Pali to Surat. However, they could not be operated. “For every train, we need at least 1,200 passengers which could be migrant workers, students and other groups. In these two trains, we could not get the required number of passengers. Hopefully, these trains will be ready to leave on Sunday,” he added. On the other hand, the state government is also in touch with governments of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab to operate trains from there to Rajasthan. “In the next couple of days, hopefully, we would be able to bring our migrant workers from these states. We are in touch with government of various states, including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab to get inbound train to Rajasthan,” Jain added. Earlier on Friday, one train carrying migrant workers left for Patna from Jaipur and another carrying coaching students left from Kota to Ranchi. Railways has also arranged extra security in the train. “We are ensuring social distancing in these special trains. So we are allowing only 50 passengers against sitting capacity of 72 in a bogie. RPF jawans and our staff will keep a watch on passengers,” said an officer with the NWR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/956-students-from-kota-leave-for-dhanbad-in-train/articleshow/75512349.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid tally rises to 536, 10 more discharged||Agra: At least 36 more Covid-19 cases were reported by Agra's district administration till Saturday afternoon, taking the district tally to 536. On an average, one positive case has surfaced in the district every 45 minutes in the past three days. Besides, one person out of 14 is being tested positive. Also, six more people, including three women, tested positive in Aligarh on Saturday, taking the district's tally to 42. While in Hathras, two more tested positive, including a police constable, who is posted in Firozabad. The total number of cases rose to seven in the district. The new cases which surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, include 10 vegetable sellers, one pregnant woman of Bodla locality and five related to Hasanpura of Khandoli block. The remaining cases are related to people already under institutional quarantine. They were shifted to isolation facility after being confirmed with the infection. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to the health department, out of the 536 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 105 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. While 100 cases are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 25 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in the Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 60 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts, while 26 cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 134 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All those who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. At present, there are 39 active hotspots in the city." Meanwhile, the district administration sought public suggestion for containment of Covid-19 in Agra. In an hour's duration from 3pm to 4pm, a total of 59 suggestions were recorded. Some of these included deploying Army personnel for strict enforcement of lockdown in colonies, red zones should be completely sealed, more testing, screening of all residents, home delivery of all the essential items, closing of banks and insurance offices, and vegetable supply should be restricted to only one day a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-tally-rises-to-536-10-more-discharged/articleshow/75511571.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 3, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lion’s school trip in Una ends in fiasco||RAJKOT: Animals and reptiles seem to be having a free run on their reclaimed territories sans any interference of humans under the lockdown. While thankfully, no animal-human conflict has happened so far in any of these jungle tales, Una villagers woke up to another episode of lion adventure early on Wednesday morning. A young male adult, aged around five years, trying to prey on cattle at a nearby shed, also took a trip inside a locked primary school building in Gir Somnath district. However, its schooling misadventure proved costly as the lion jumped, which jumped in from a dilapidated gate, couldn’t find a way out and got trapped inside the building. Later forest department had to rescue by tranquillizing the wild cat. Talking to TOI, a senior forest officer in Pashwala village said, the area falls within the hub of Gir-Somanth’s lion habitat. Sighting of the wild cats is not so uncommon for the people residing there who have co-existed for long. “This young lion must have come to the area to hunt as there is a cattle shed in the backside of the primary school. It entered the cattle shed in the wee hours of Wednesday when it was quite dark. But people living near the shed woke up and after spotting the lion, raised an alarm. The sudden burst of noises frightened the animal which quickly sought refuge inside the school building,” he explained. While villagers called a team of forest department to rescue the trapped lion, it is the punctuality of trackers that saved the people from being harmed outside the school building, he said. “The school has a dilapidated gate and the big lion could have easily opened it and attacked people who had gathered outside it. Thankfully, trackers closed the door in time with the support of a pipe,” the officer said. The forest trackers then tranquillized the lion, brought it to Jasadhar animal care centre before releasing it in the forest after routine testing. Gir Somnath district has approximately 60 lions. Lions have frequently preyed on straying cattle besides attacking those kept in sheds of farmers. The forest department also pays compensation to the farmers for losing their cattle, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-school-trip-in-una-ends-in-fiasco/articleshow/75511599.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Hrs after becoming Covid-free, Deoghar gets 2 new cases||Dumka/Ranchi: Hours after it became free of Covid-19 with both confirmed patients being discharged from hospital on making a full recovery, Deoghar district got two fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday evening. Jharkhand’s tally now stands at 115, of which 88 are active cases whil;e two have dies and 25 have recovered. In a relief for the state capital Ranchi, categorized as a red zone, no fresh case was reported in the city after a daily surge for 10 days. Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay said, “Two men aged 19 and 41 from Narangi and Dakai villages in Sarwa block tested positive. We have initiated all the precautionary measures for containment in those areas as per the protocol. They belong to the batch of migrant labourers from Haryana among which one tested positive earlier. The patients were identified based on contact-tracing of the first case. We have shifted the patients to Ma Lalita Hospital in Deoghar town.” On Friday, two persons from Ranchi had tested positive for Covid-19. On the two new case, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “A 26-year-old woman from Dipatoli locality and a 27-year-old male from the Hindpiri containment zone tested positive on Friday.” Meanwhile, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims)’s microbiology department — which operates the largest coronavirus testing lab in the state — was shut down for four days on Thursday night, hours after a lab technician tested positive for the the virus. Talking to TOI on Friday, Rims director Dr D K Singh said: “The laboratory has been sealed for four days on directions from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hrs-after-becoming-covid-free-deoghar-gets-2-new-cases/articleshow/75512043.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||No SOP, Bengal forces buses with migrants to return from borders||Ranchi: After the first lot of buses from Sahibganj district successfully exchanged stranded migrant labourers with West Bengal, the latter stopped the process, citing lack of standard operating procedures (SOP) on their part. On Thursday night, four buses with stranded labourers from West Bengal had left for Murshidabad and Burdwan districts from Sahibganj. The same buses returned with around 100 migrant labourers of Jharkhand stuck in West Bengal on Friday. However, another lot of buses from Dumka and other districts were stopped at West Bengal’s borders and forced them to return. State transport commissioner Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaz said, “The West Bengal government has denied entry of our buses to their state as they are not ready to send or receive stranded migrant labourers. Some of our districts which sent buses carrying people from West Bengal were also stopped at the borders and made to return. They have requested us to put the exchange on hold for sometime till the time they prepare their SOPs. We are in touch with them.” Between Saturday night and Sunday morning, more than 200 buses were readied to send them to Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. West Bengal was kept out of the list for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-sop-bengal-forces-buses-with-migrants-to-return-from-borders/articleshow/75511993.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Liquor shops, salons, malls, public transport to remain shut in state||Ranchi: Barber shops, salons, spas, retail liquor stores, shopping malls and other places of recreation will remain closed in Jharkhand till May 17, the state’s disaster management department said on Saturday. A watchful state government also said public transports and inter and intra district movements in green zones, which cover 14 out of the state’s 24 districts, will also remain suspended until further orders. “No means of public transport will be allowed to resume in any part of the state till further orders,” Manish Tiwary, joint secretary of the department, told the TOI. On Friday, the MHA had asked states and UTs to consider resuming public transport buses in green zones with 50% capacity of the vehicles after assessing the ground scenario. The state will also not allow MHA’s relaxations to the taxi aggregators for operating in orange zones with one or two passengers. In Ranchi, which falls under red zone, standalone shops will be allowed to open on rotational basis to maintain social distancing. E commerce portals can sell and deliver only essential goods. Shopping malls, marketplaces and other commercial activities will remain suspended. Government and private offices can resume operations with 33% staff strength. However, shopping malls and market places will remain shut. In the state capital, private vehicles will be allowed to take to the streets with a maximum of two passengers. Pillion riding in two wheelers has been banned. Construction sites, where workers are camping on site, will only be allowed to resume work. Industrial units, production units, their supply chains and SEZs have been allowed to operate. In the red zone, standalone shops selling construction material, automobile showrooms and service centers, vehicle tyre and spare parts shops and apparel stores are likely to open. However, there will be restrictions on roadside and highway eateries. Takeaway parcels will be allowed in green and orange zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/liquor-shops-salons-malls-public-transport-to-remain-shut-in-state/articleshow/75511949.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||4 chain pvt testing labs to start Covid-19 tests||Ranchi: The state health department on Saturday said four private pathological laboratories have been authorised by ICMR to start Covid-19 tests and are expected to start operations in a couple of days. The department also said the laboratories cannot charge more than Rs 4,500 per test. Talking to TOI, Jharkhand mission director of National Health Mission, Shailesh Chourasia, said, “We have not received the guidelines to be followed by the laboratories on collection and testing of samples from ICMR. Once we receive them, the service will be available to anyone who wants to get himself tested for Covid-19 and hopefully the guidelines will be published within a couple of days.” He said, “To boost the state’s testing capacity, we had invited proposals for collection and testing of samples from private entities operating in Jharkhand, based on the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and ICMR’s letter on the protocols to be followed for sample collection and testing. The four laboratories, which have chain branches across the state, expressed their interest, following which the state health department allowed them to prepare for the operations.” Chourasia further said the authorised private laboratories are Dr Lal Path Labs, SRL limited, Core Diagnostics and Path Kind Diagnostics Limited. They will start operations in the state by implementing all safety protocols issued by ICMR and in co-ordination with state and district Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) cells, he said. The mission director said, “The private entities have been asked to follow all safety protocols during collection and testing of samples as per the guidelines issued by ICMR. Moreover, they have to share details of sample collection and test results on a daily basis to IDSP authorities without fail and they have been allowed to charge a maximum of Rs 4,500 per test.” Chourasia added that all four agencies have fixed the price per test at the maximum price set, citing operational costs. He said, “The four labs said they have to collect the samples and send them to Gurugram and Kolkata for testing, thus increasing their operational costs. Moreover, they said their costs are high as their staff will use a fresh set of protective gear for every customer, apart from incurring costs for viral transport media (VTM) and sample testing kits. Hence, the government has allowed them to fixed the price at Rs 4,500 per test.” Chourasia added that no more private labs in the state are likely to get authorisation for testing as ICMR will not be able to inspect further laboratories and provide accreditation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-chain-pvt-testing-labs-to-start-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75511969.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi in red zone in Centre’s first list of hotspot districts||Ranchi: Unlike the previous two phases, Lockdown 3.0 will have different and relaxed norms for various districts based on the number of Covid-19 cases, doubling rate and other surveillance reports, the process being guided by colour coding of districts. The colour codes — red for hotspots and green for districts with no cases in 21 days and orange for those that do not fit the two categories — will be released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on a weekly basis. According to the first list, Ranchi district is the only red zone in the state. Nine districts — Bokaro, Garhwa, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Hazaribag, Simdega, Giridih, Koderma and Jamtara — are orange while the remaining 14 districts are green zones. Palamu and Godda are in green districts despite Covid-19 cases being reported from both in the last week. While three cases were reported from Palamu on April 25, one person from Godda tested positive on April 30. As per Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines, both should be placed in orange category. An MHA official clarified that the MoHFW list will be released every week, but states and Union territories can place green districts in the orange list according to the incidence rates. “The MHA notification clearly states the definition for categorisation of red, orange and green zones and also allows states to re-categorise their districts based on new cases and doubling rate, but they are restricted from lowering the rank of the districts on their own,” the official said. Now, Godda and Palamu DCs are at the liberty of putting their districts in orange category and follow the lockdown norms announced for the category. However, Hazaribag DC cannot declare the district as green despite all patients there being cured. The MoFHW will release a fresh list of districts next week in which Hazaribag could be declared a green zone. The MHA notification states that red zones will be declared by MoHFW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-in-red-zone-in-centres-first-list-of-hotspot-districts/articleshow/75511702.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Six criminals sent to jail in connection to Steel City gang war||Jamshedpur: Six members of the Sudhir Dubey gang allegedly involved in the shoot-out at Nitibag area in Sitaramdera police station area on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday were arrested. Seven aides of their rival gang, led by Akhilesh Singh, were injured during the shoot-out. SSP Tamil Vanan said the arrested gang members identified as Rakesh Rai alias Kalu Rai (45), Ajay Rai alias Appu (30), Narayan Thakur (28), Pankaj Dubey (26), Gurudayal Singh alias Raja Singh (33) and Anurag Kumar Gautam (20) were directly involved in the firing and they have been forwarded to judicial custody on Friday. Of the arrested, Raja Singh is a resident of Telco while Narayan Thakur is a native of Bhojpur (Bihar) and the remaining four are natives of Buxar, Bihar. Police also seized two SUVs and eight empty cartridges from the criminals during raids across different police station areas of Jamshedpur and Adityapur. Vanan said, “We have lodged two FIRs in connection with the incident. The six gang members have been arrested based on a statement given to the police by Kanhaiya Singh, member of the Akhilesh Singh gang. Kanhaiya is undergoing treatment for bullet injuries sustained during the shoot-out. In the first FIR, all six criminals have been charged under sections 324/326/307/34 of the IPC besides Section 27 of Arms Act.” The SSP said the second FIR is lodged against Kanhaiya and others based on a statement given to the police by Rakesh Rai alias Kalu Rai, the arrested gang member of Sudhir Dubey. They were charged under sections 147/148/149/307/290/504/506 and 12B of IPC. Vanan said, “Our investigation, so far, indicates that the rivalry between Kanhaiya and Sudhir is the cause of the shoot-out but we are gathering more information.” A 14-member probe team led by SP (city) Subhash Chandra Jat is tasked to investigate and arrest the criminals. Four deputy SPs and eight police station in-charges besides two sub-inspectors of Sitaramdera police station are part of the team. During the shoot-out, seven aides of Akhilesh Singh gang, namely Kanhaiya Singh, Somnath Singh, Ansu Chauhan, Sonu Singh, Sachin Singhbhhum, Vikram Singh, Raj Kumar Singh, were shot at by rival gang members of Sudhir Dubey gang. All injured are being treated at TMH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/six-criminals-sent-to-jail-in-connection-to-steel-city-gang-war/articleshow/75511930.cms||B Sridhar
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Rims lab technicians on indefinite strike||Ranchi: A day after a lab technician at Rims’s microbiology department tested positive for Covid-19, around 100 lab and OT technicians on Saturday went on an indefinite strike and demanded protective gears, 14-day mandatory quarantine and briefings and trainings on work protocols at the labs. The protesters alleged that despite numerous requests to the medical superintendent and the Covid-19 task force, they weren’t provided with PPEs and no briefings were carried out on the safety protocols needed at the microbiology and other laboratories. Ajit Kishore, a lab technician at the preventive and social medicine department, currently deputed at the microbiology lab on Covid-19 duty, said, “We had gone up to medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap at least four times in the last one month to ask for PPEs and basic training on the safety protocols. Neither Kashyap nor anybody from the Covid-19 task force paid heed to our requests.” He added, “A letter has been issued by the state health department to train and brief us on the safety protocols that need to be adopted, but people here keep passing the buck.” Manoj Kumar, a technician from the physiology department, said, “We collect samples from patients who have already tested positive and also from dead bodies and we still have to prove it to them that we run the risk of getting affected. How will we fight the disease if we get affected ourselves?” Another lab technician, on condition of anonymity, said, “We feel like a football. When we visit Dr Kashyap, he asks us to talk to the task force and when we speak to the latter, they send us back to the superintendent.” He added, “Dr Kashyap has also told us that lab technicians do not get affected by the virus.” State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Rims has sufficient number of PPEs and the hospital in-charge should provide them to all on-duty workers. We have also issued directions to provide proper trainings and briefings on safety protocols to people on Covid-19 duty. Safety of health workers is of utmost necessity at this juncture and the hospital should ensure this.” Meanwhile, TOI tried to get in touch with Dr Kashyap, but all calls and text messages went unanswered. Dr Prabhat Kumar, in-charge of the Covid-19 task force, said, “We have classified health workers on Covid-19 duty under two categories which include high risk and low risk depending on their contact with positive patients. We have also made arrangement for food and accommodation for the technicians on the campus in order to reduce the risk of spreading the infection.” On being asked about holding training sessions and briefings on the safety protocols, Kumar said, “Our work is to establish a co-ordination among departments and provide logistical support to the health workers. We aren’t responsible for providing trainings to the health workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-lab-technicians-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/75511886.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 3, 2020||India||Rahul, Prasad slug it out over Aarogya app||NEW DELHI: Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were locked in a sharp exchange of words on Twitter over Aarogya Setu app on Saturday. Rahul tweeted on Saturday, “The Arogya (sic) Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent.” Reacting to it, electronics and information technology minister Prasad posted, “Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good! Aarogya Setu is now being appreciated globally. The App is NOT outsourced to any private operator. Mr Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India.” Earlier, Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said, “Worldwide this app is being preferred. It curbs false information and you also know if there is a #COVID19 positive person in your vicinity.” He was reacting to AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi who had called it a “very shady app”. On Friday, more than 100 civil society representatives and at least 45 organisations sent a petition to PM Modi against mandatory use of the app for employees in government and private sectors, expressing serious concern about breach of individual privacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-prasad-slug-it-out-over-aarogya-app/articleshow/75513144.cms||---
May 3, 2020||India||Focus on e-Nam in Modi’s meet on farm reforms||NEW DELHI: Amid positive signal from agriculture sector, which the government claims saw limited disruptions due to the lockdown, PM Modi on Saturday held a meeting to deliberate on reforms required in the sector and emphasised on dissemination of technology to make farmers more competitive in the global value chain. Among various issues, developing existing e-National Agriculture Market (e-Nam) web portal into a bigger platform to enable e-commerce was one of the important topics of discussion. This move may transform trading of all farm related commodities including seeds, fertilisers and agro-chemical plant protection inputs in the country. The agriculture ministry has already decided to increase the e-Nam footprint to 1,000 mandis (agri markets) across the country by the month-end and tweaked certain provisions which would enable farmers to sell their produce without visiting the regulated mandis. “Special emphasis was given on reforms in agriculture marketing, management of marketable surplus, access of farmers to institutional credit and freeing agriculture sector of various restrictions,” said a PMO statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/focus-on-e-nam-in-modis-meet-on-farm-reforms/articleshow/75513160.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR witnesses showers in morning; Met predicts more rainy, windy days||NEW DELHI: Delhiites woke up to a cloudy morning with light rain and drizzle at some areas in the national capital and neighbouring Noida on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light showers in the national capital on Sunday, while strong winds at the speed of 50-60km/hr are likely on Monday and Tuesday. IMD even forecasted hailstorms in parts of the capital, thanks to a combination of a western disturbance (WD), an induced cyclonic circulation and easterly winds. Delhi-NCR witnesses light to heavy rains in several parts (morning visual from Rohini)#DelhiRains #DelhiWeather https://t.co/Ee9Ld1qFW7— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1588474060000Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the MeT department, the maximum temperature is likely to be around 35-37 degrees Celsius for the next four days. On Saturday, Delhi’s maximum was recorded at 37.9 degrees Celsius, one degree below the normal for this time of the season. Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the ‘moderate’ range on Saturday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 112 on CPCB’s index. This however is forecast to fall in the next few days, owing to the spell of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/met-predicts-more-windy-rainy-days-for-delhi-ncr/articleshow/75513159.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||India may have to move ICJ again to secure Jadhav: Salve||Nagpur: Senior lawyer Harish Salve on Saturday expressed the possibility that India may have to move the Hague-based International Court of Justice (ICJ) once again to secure and save Kulbhushan Jadhav, who is on death row in Pakistan. Speaking at the Dattopant Thengdi lecture series on the topic ‘Analysis of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s case and my experience at the ICJ’ organized by Adhivakta Parishad, the legal luminary said the government of India was trying its best to secure justice for Jadhav and has even written many letters to the Pakistan authorities, who are not responding. “They believe that their case is strong, but they can’t hang him as of now. Due to consular access given to us, they need to keep Jadhav in good condition, but nothing is guaranteed. India will insist on an effective review of their military court’s verdict that sentenced him to the gallows for being a spy. Before awarding a sentence based on his confession, they should have given us consular access as per the Vienna convention,” said Salve. Narrating how India managed to defer Jadhav’s execution, Salve, who has his roots in Nagpur, said Pakistan steadfastly refused consular access despite 23 requests. “Unlike other democracies, the Pakistan military court has been given rights to try civilian cases and 90% of the accused are convicted on the basis of confessions. When it was learnt that Jadhav may be executed, the then external affairs minister, the late Sushma Swaraj, contacted me and we filed a case with ICJ in May 2018.” Explaining the ICJ’s proceedings, the senior lawyer said the government relied on violation of the Vienna Treaty while demanding an interim stay on Jadhav’s execution. “Except his jumbled confessions, the other side had nothing to prove. Even that was full of loopholes, lacking specific details. Fortunately, ICJ granted us a quick hearing and stayed the execution provisionally in just two weeks. It was a remarkable achievement for the country and raised its stature on the international map,” said Salve. The ICJ again heard the case in February last year and granted a stay on Jadhav’s hanging after upholding India’s pleadings. “Pakistan tried theatrics through power point presentations of his confession. They even claimed that he was given their passport by the government of India. In their FIR, they named the entire Indian security apparatus, including the home minister and intelligence agency heads. But we relied on the Vienna convention where they should have granted us consular access before his confession. We also raised the issue of human rights violation by Pakistan,” Salve said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/india-may-have-to-move-icj-again-to-secure-jadhav-salve/articleshow/75512456.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Experts call upon govt to run rural healthcare centres on solar power||Nagpur: Nearly 23 crore people in rural areas are being served by 39,000 healthcare clinics that don't have electricity amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. This was highlighted in an open letter written by 20 leaders from think tanks, research groups, renewable energy companies, sustainable development organizations, industry associations, and healthcare services. Stressing on the need for solarizing all unelectrified sub-centres in rural India, the letter has been submitted to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the National Centre for Disease Control, the National Health Systems Resource Centre, the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, the Ministry of Power and Niti Aayog. The letter highlights how the country’s weak healthcare infrastructure in rural areas is being exposed due to the pandemic. Citing the success story of Chhattisgarh, the letter states: “Recent experience from solarizing sub-centres in Chhattisgarh has shown that service improved significantly with the addition of rooftop PV and batteries, resulting in better healthcare outcomes.” Through the letter, the experts have urged the central and state governments to undertake four interventions-- expanding the programme to solarize clinics, allocating dedicated funding towards this initiative which would amount to just 0.6% of the 2020-21 energy and healthcare budget, ensuring long-term operations and sustainability by working through existing structures, and promoting innovation in order to develop more financially viable and energy-efficient medical equipment. According to experts, rural healthcare infrastructure, particularly the sub-centres, are a critical link in ensuring success outcomes envisaged in the National Health Mission. Even as several states continue to lag behind on basic metrics pertaining to maternal mortality or vaccination rates, areas where the PHCs and sub-centres don’t have access to grid electricity are particularly under-equipped. The enhancements being planned in the rural health infrastructure in the aftermath of the Covid-19 accords a unique opportunity to direct critical public funding towards electrifying the PHC infrastructure rapidly through decentralized renewable energy installations. “For around Rs 600 crore investment, 40,000-odd currently unelectrified sub-centres and PHCs could have a secure source of power and be equipped adequately for necessary functions,” said Upendra Bhatt, co-founder and managing director at cKinetics, a sustainability insight and capital firm. Stating that powering rural healthcare infrastructure with decentralised renewable energy was an obvious choice, CEO of Clean Energy Access Network Adwait Joshi stated, “It complements the government's goal of providing clean and seamless energy beyond households. Also, it gives healthcare workers options to access advanced technologies such as tele-medicine, vaccine storage, baby-incubators and many others. Covid-19 is a crisis and an opportunity to accelerate upgradation of rural healthcare infrastructure to a higher level with access to reliable clean energy.” In agreement, Shweta Narayan, coordinator of Healthy Energy Initiative (India) said, “Solarizing rural health centres is a critical step in making our health systems self-reliant and climate resilient in order to protect human life, produce good health outcomes everyday, during a crisis and its aftermath." Infographics: - 20 experts write an open letter to government - It highlights 23 crore people in rural areas are being served by healthcare clinics not having electricity - Covid-19 has exposed the country’s weak healthcare infrastructure in rural areas - Stress on the need of powering rural healthcare infrastructure with decentralised renewable energy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-call-upon-govt-to-run-rural-healthcare-centres-on-solar-power/articleshow/75512464.cms||Manka Behl
May 3, 2020||India||Army team on J&K op loses contact||SRINAGAR: Two Army officers, two soldiers and a policeman reportedly lost contact with their team during a fierce encounter with Pakistani terrorists at Chanjimulla area of Handwara in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday. The communication contact with the security personnel was lost for quite some time after they entered a house during the encounter that began around 3.45 pm. However, there was no official word from either the Army or the J&K police about the encounter till late in the night. The major anti-terror operation conducted by a combined team of 21 and 15 Rashtriya Rifles, elite 9 Para commandos, CRPF and Special Operations Group of the J&K Police was launched after specific information about the presence of the several heavily armed Pakistani terrorists in the area. The terrorists’ group had, according to reports, escaped the Army’s repulsive attack in the Rajwar and Mawar forest areas of Handwara on Friday afternoon and several members of the group managed to take shelter in houses in the Chanjimulla area. As soon as the security forces reached the spot on Saturday afternoon, the terrorists opened fire from several houses. The security forces zeroed in on a particular house where perhaps one of the terrorists was hiding, reports said. However, the forces have been unable to establish contact with their officers and jawans who had entered that house. The combat forces demolished a residential house where one terrorist had purportedly taken shelter. Sources said, the security team has not been able to estimate the exact number of terrorists hiding in the houses in the area. The sources further said that the exchange of fire continued for several hours before the guns fell silent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-team-on-jk-op-loses-contact/articleshow/75513177.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals tackle Covid-19 scare with own model, help of govt labs||Nagpur: Some private hospitals in the city have come up with their own model and also taking help of government laboratories to avoid temporary closure like in case of a Jaripatka hospital and a cancer hospital on Kamptee Road, to ensure staff safety and treatment of non-Covid emergency patients. At the same time, few doctors feel the need for authorization to private laboratories for conducting non-elective surgeries. A hospital at Jaripatka and cancer hospital on Kamptee road had to be closed down on a temporary basis after patients who were treated there later tested positive for Covid-19. Doctors and staff at these hospitals had to be quarantined. In a setback to some private hospitals which were ensuring reports before surgeries, private laboratories had stopped collecting samples for Covid-19 and weren’t sending them to Mumbai for testing, following orders of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and collector Ravindra Thakare. Amid such situation, two private hospitals — National Cancer Institute (NCI), Jamtha, and Neuron Brain, Spine and Critical Care Centre, Dhantoli — have prepared a system to prevent Covid-19 infection, protect their staff and provide medical services. General secretary of NCI Shailesh Joglekar told TOI, “We cannot stop treatment to cancer patients. Around 200 patients visit the OPD daily. Therefore, we have set up fever clinic at a separate area for OPD and fever ward in IPD. Resident medical officers screen patients and relatives at the entrance gate with thermometer gun, take details and ensure filing of self-declaration form.” In case of any doubts, the patient is referred to fever clinic where the entire staff is equipped with PPE kit. “In case of symptoms, the patients are referred to laboratories at GMCH and IGGMCH for testing. We treat them once they come with reports for Covid-19. In case any patient develops any symptoms in IPD, we shift him/her to fever ward where all types of precautions are taken. Samples are collected and sent to IGGMCH for testing. The same is done before conducting surgeries,” he said. Joglekar said they have submitted an application with AIIMS seeking a tie-up. “We have also kept some staff members aside so that they can take over in case existing staff is quarantined,” he said. Dr Pramod Giri from Neuron Brain, Spine and Critical Care Centre spoke about the same system adopted at the hospital. “We are consulting the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) if Covid-19 symptoms are found in any patient. NMC team takes samples for testing in government laboratories. Our model is working out very well as we need to do surgeries on emergency basis daily,” he said. According to surgeon Dr Mukund Thakur, they have no option but to take all precautions and perform surgery without Covid-19 test on emergency patients like bursting of tumours inside or other types. “There are some more surgeries which can be delayed for 1-3 days. In such cases we are ensuring test is done if symptoms are found. The need is to allow smooth functioning of private laboratories as their team comes to the hospital, safely collect samples and give results in desirable time,” he said. Dr Rajkumar Rathi from Clinicare Speciality Laboratory said that they have stopped collection of samples as per collector’s orders. “Private hospitals associated with us are worried now. We have submitted an application with AIIMS for giving permission to test samples here itself. We were able to deliver reports within 24 hours though samples were sent to Mumbai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-tackle-covid-19-scare-with-own-model-help-of-govt-labs/articleshow/75520349.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||In 2 days, 47 new cases, 5 deaths in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Vidarbha recorded 47 new cases of Covid-19, including five deaths, on May 1 and May 2. The region now has 367 confirmed cases, with 90 of them having recovered and discharged. Out of 16 deaths in the region, 10 are in Amravati district alone while three in Akola, two in Nagpur and one in Buldhana. Apart from this, a patient had committed suicide in Akola on April 11. Nagpur and Amravati recorded 13 new cases in the last two days. Yavatmal recorded two and Akola 18 cases. Chandrapur, which was Covid-free so far, recorded its first case on Saturday. Most of Nagpur’s 13 cases are from the Satranjipura and Mominpura connections. A 16-month-old baby tested positive on Saturday, becoming the youngest patient of Nagpur so far. Amravati saw a massive spurt in cases in the last three days. City’s total which was 28 on April 29 reached 53 on May 2. Amravati recorded 12 cases on April 30, three on May 1 and ten including three deaths on May 2. Worryingly, emergence of ten new Covid-19 positive cases is not only in urban but also in rural parts of the district. Amravati, which was in orange zone as per the data up to April 29 landed in red zone on May 2. Yavatmal, which is already in red zone with 90 cases, heaved a sigh of relief on May 1 and 2. Only 2 new cases were reported there. There are 80 positive patients in the GMC isolation ward and another 80 suspected cases in quarantine. In the last 24 hours, there are five new admissions. In all, 1,173 swab samples were sent so far to the lab and 1,155 reports were received of which 1,064 were negative. Eighteen test reports are awaited. There are 108 persons in institutional quarantine and 1091 in home quarantine in the district. There is no coronavirus patient reported from anywhere across the district other than a small pocket of the city. Yavatmal has not reported any Covid casualty till date. Former minister Shivajirao Moghe has demanded total relaxation in 15 out of 16 tehsils of the district. Gondia, which was earlier in orange zone, is now in green zone as no case was registered here in 21 days. Washim also has no new patient now, so it is also in green zone. Bhandara, which was in green zone earlier, is now in orange zone as one woman tested positive here on April 27. Wardha and Gadchiroli are still Covid-free and in green zone from the beginning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-2-days-47-new-cases-5-deaths-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75512536.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 89 new Covid-19 cases in Dharavi, three of dead BMC staff kin tested positive||MUMBAI: Dharavi, in G-North ward, reported 89 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest in a day since the first case was reported there on April 1. It had recorded 38 cases on Friday. The cases in Dharavi stand at 496, including 18 deaths. The ward includes Dadar-Mahim and Dharavi. Mahim reported 17 cases on Friday-Saturday, but there was no case in Dadar on Friday. Thirteen new cases were reported in Dadar on Saturday. The cases in G-North ward are 594, of which 84% are from congested slum pockets in Dharavi. Most cases reported in Dharavi are from 31 pockets, mostly in congested slum areas. Meanwhile, three family members of a 47-year-old civic assessment inspector, who was involved in food distribution in Dharavi and died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, tested positive on Saturday, including his 67-year-old mother. The family lives in Borivali and one daughter tested negative. Dharavi is one of the worst affected areas in the city and BMC officials stated that maintaining social distancing in congested slums was difficult. Slum-dwellers share common toilets, they explained. BMC decided to check slum-dwellers for fever with thermometer guns since some time. BMC shifted them to a quarantine facility, where civic health staff checked and then tested those with symptoms of Covid-19. Assistant municipal commissioner (G-North) Kiran Dighavkar said, “We are doing it as part of a strategy to trace maximum positive cases. In a week, we scan around 25,000 people. We are taking the help of local medical practitioners to trace more cases. The graph will be up for few more days due to the aggressive affect of tracing, but soon it will move downward.” Apart from scanning slumdwellers, BMC is shifting highrisk contacts and neighbours of positive patients to its quarantine centre to ensure they should not pose a risk to others. In one week, they shifted around 1,000. BMC has also convinced around 350 private medical practitioners in Dharavi to report to it regular patients who are symptomatic. As two civic engineers posted at Nair Hospital tested positive, Sainath Rajadhyaksha, president of Municipal Engineers Union said, “Authorities should take extra precaution, as most people testing positive now are civic employees involved in Covid-19 related work. BMC should make separate treatment arrangements for employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-89-new-covid-19-cases-in-dharavi-three-of-dead-bmc-staff-kin-tested-positive/articleshow/75513163.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Cops ignore social media attack on min||Nagpur: Even after a complaint was lodged two weeks ago regarding a social media attack on state home minister Anil Deshmukh, the city police are yet to take call. Deshmukh had asked city police chief BK Upadhyay to look into the complaint filed by his party NCP’s senior vice president Nutan Rewatkar at Ganeshpeth police station. The alleged objectionable post, created and uploaded by a political rival, has not only held Deshmukh responsible for failure to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the state but also for extending support to tainted businessmen to visit tourist spots. Complainant Rewatkar pointed out in her complaint that the content of the post was also to spread communal hatred among masses regarding the government machineries apart from targeting the home minister in an objectionable manner. “There are strict guidelines from the state cyber security cell too against spreading rumours and also creating rift between communities,” she said. Deshmukh is an NCP MLA from Katol. “It seems the police are working under some political pressure,” said Rewatkar. The creator of the post also pointed fingers at the government for ignoring a particular community and holding them responsible for the spread of coronavirus in the interiors of the state. He also levelled allegations against the police for not taking adequate action against a specific community due to government pressure. Senior PI Shivram Kumre of Ganeshpeth police station said they are waiting for the opinion of the law officer from the office of the Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-ignore-social-media-attack-on-min/articleshow/75512547.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||Seven arrested for stabbing youth, trying to mow him down||Nagpur: Wadi police on Saturday arrested seven persons and registered a case of attempt to murder against them for allegedly trying to mow down a 22-year-old man by an SUV and stabbed him on Friday night at an open space in Rao Layout. The youth, identified as Shivam alias Lala Tripathi, a resident of Adivasi Layout, is recuperating at a hospital in the city. The accused, identified as Raj Bhende, Sanjay Bhende, Sagar Bhende, Vinod Bhende, Dashrath Bhende, Sanjay Atkari and Ranglal Pal, were booked under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for attacking Tripathi and breaking the lockdown. Three more persons involved in the incident are yet to arrested. According to police, Tripathi was slapped by one of the accused last month over a petty issue. The accused were still angry with him. On Friday, when Tripathi was sitting with his friends at Rao Layout, the accused came there by an SUV and tried to mow down Tripathi and his friends who managed to escape. However, the accused damaged two bikes of Tripathi and his friends. The accused later came out of the SUV while carrying iron rods and wooden sticks. They got hold of Tripathi and started thrashing him when one of the accused pulled a knife from his pocket and stabbed the youth in stomach. The accused later fled the spot. Tripathi’s friend rushed him to a private hospital, police said. Wadi police rushed to the spot after getting information about the incident and arrested seven persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-arrested-for-stabbing-youth-trying-to-mow-him-down/articleshow/75512556.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||April sans salary for many, pay in May also unlikely||Nagpur: The month of May, which starts with the International Labour Day, may be tough for a number of workers in the private sector. Businessmen running establishments like shops and other trading firms may not be giving salaries for the month at all. Those kind enough may pay half or a quarter of the wages. A section of industrialists is learnt to have planned to file a petition against the government directive to pay wages during the lockdown. Even the large industries are planning a cut. Covid-19 has once again delayed the salary in the state-run telecom service provider, BSNL. Manufacturing units pay salaries by 7th of 10th of every month. Representatives of the industries TOI talked to said even as the payday is yet to come, a cut cannot be ruled out. Officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) got 50% salary for April. However, state and central government employees got full pay. A prominent leader of trade association said that shopkeepers from city had decided to not pay their workers salaries for the month of April. “The government wants us to pay full salaries but is not giving us any relief. The banks are not ready to lower their interest rates. The landlords are demanding full rent,” he told TOI. OP Lohia, chairman of Indorama Synthetics India Limited (IRSL), the first industry of Butibori estate, said, “We are working out a strategy and will follow what the entire industry does. We will not leave our workers in the lurch but even they have to understand the situation.” A senior officer in BSNL said the salary that was supposed to be released on the last working day of April has been delayed by a week. Low realization of bills has hampered the revenues. He appealed to the consumers to pay their bills using electronic means, including the BSNL App. A clerk working with a private investment firm told TOI that his employer had refused to pay him salary. In a cascading affect due to pay cuts and lack of salary, people are not paying their domestic helps whom they had laid off during lockdown. Even the health sector has not been spared. Though government did not close down hospitals, doctors did it on their own. A prominent hospital sent half of its employees on leave without pay and paid 50% salary to those who worked, including doctors. This is the case with many hospitals. Salary was delayed in a prominent retail chain which has its outlets all over the country. The revenues have come down to negligible levels, said a source here. A representative of NECO Group said that uncertainty prevails over their ability to meet their commitment towards wages which are due next week. “We haven’t got our dues from the vendors,” said the source. “Even the government payments that are expected to be released in March have not come, hitting our liquidity instead,” said a source in an infrastructure company. A chartered accountant said that he would not pay any salary to his staffers as he had not earned a single penny in April. “The government imposed the lockdown without thinking about the economic consequences. Now, it should help the affected persons,” he said. As an exception, Dr Pinak Dande of Dande Hospitals claimed that he has increased salary of the staff for the extra effort they are putting in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/april-sans-salary-for-many-pay-in-may-also-unlikely/articleshow/75512583.cms||Shishir Arya
May 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: At 3.3%, India’s fatality rate almost as low as South Korea’s||NEW DELHI: India's fatality rate of 3.3% of total confirmed coronavirus cases and deaths of 0.09 people per one lakh population compares well with some other countries, including South Korea, which is seen as a top performer in containing the disease, and China that resorted to measures like mass quarantine to limit the pandemic. Among the early countries to have been infected with the outbreak of Covid-19, South Korea has done well by confining its total count to 10,780 cases and deaths at 250. Its case-fatality rate is among the lowest at 2.3% while deaths per lakh of population have been at 0.48, higher than China at 0.33 and India’s 0.09, which is the lowest among all major countries, according to trends captured at the Coronavirus Resource Centre, Johns Hopkins University. China, with 83,959 cases and 4,637 deaths reported so far, has a case-fatality rate of 5.5%. So far India has 37,257 total cases and 1,223 deaths. The situation is very grim in some European countries and the US. Deaths per lakh of population has been the highest in Belgium at 67.44, followed by Spain, Italy, UK, France and US at 53, 47, 42, 37 and 20 respectively. The case-fatality ratio, that is total deaths out of total Covid-19 cases, in these countries is also high, ranging between 12% to 16%, except in US where it is 6% with 65,000 deaths reported so far out of 11 lakh confirmed cases. According to the mortality analyses of the university, the data could represent a different picture if more people are tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-at-3-3-indias-fatality-rate-almost-as-low-as-s-koreas/articleshow/75513184.cms||Pradeep Thakur
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Spurt in Covid-19 cases in city, containment zones go up to 11||Visakhapatnam: Four new Covid-19 cases in Visakhapatnam over the last two days have sent alarm bells ringing. The number of containment zones has gone up to 11 covering most parts under the ambit of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Many parts of Visakhapatnam west, the old city, including the administrative and health zone of Maharanipeta has come under the scanner. The district administration is taking measures to ensure that a 3km-perimetre of the area is sealed in Maharanipeta and Gopalapatnam. Speaking to STOI, Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said, “Taking cognisance of the rise in number of cases in the city and the directives issued by the Union government, we have increased the number of containment zones within GVMC limits.” The district collector said that vehicular movement will be restricted in containment zones and there will be single entry and exit points in these zones. “Essential goods and medical facilities will be available,” Chand added. Upon being asked if the administration is gearing up for a complete lockdown of the city, the collector explained that many of the containment zones are in the core city. However, norms will be relaxed in areas which had been declared containment zones earlier if they don’t report any cases in 28 days. The collector however maintained that this is a dynamic arrangement and decisions will be taken on the basis of occurrence of cases. The district administration seems to be in no mood to take chances and made it clear that surveillance of residents in containment zones will go on unabated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spurt-in-covid-19-cases-in-city-containment-zones-go-up-to-11/articleshow/75511375.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 3, 2020||Nagpur||One more killed by tiger in Paoni||Nagpur: One more woman who had ventured deep into the forest to collect mahua flowers was killed by a tiger in Savarla reserve forest compartment in Paoni range under Bhandara division on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Janabai Waman Mohdarkar (58), a resident of Khatkheda. This is the second death in the same area in last 15 days. On April 19, Mamta Naresh Shende (38) of Savarla was mauled by a tiger. Despite knowing well that the area is close to Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary and there is presence of a tigress with cubs, villagers are risking their lives by venturing into the forest. On April 24, one more woman Sindhu Borkute (52) of Ganeshpur was killed by a tiger in Injewari in Armori when she had gone to the forest to collect mahua flowers. With the latest incident, 17 people have died in wild animal attacks since January 1, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-killed-by-tiger-in-paoni/articleshow/75512594.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Lockdown makes cars wait in showrooms||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown has certainly jolted the automobile industry. But this Ugadi, those who had booked their vehicles are also in a soup. Despite having paid the booking amount, they haven’t been able to get their cars. What has exacerbated the problem is that many had sold their old cars to buy new ones in order to save on road tax. Motor vehicles rules in Andhra Pradesh state that people buying a second vehicle have to pay a heftier road tax. Thus, many have been left without cars amid the lockdown. K Srinivas, who recently sold his hatchback to buy a new SUV rues his decision. “I shouldn’t have sold my vehicle in such haste,” he says. Now every time he goes to a shop he is forced to purchase in bulk because movement has become a severe problem as public transport has gone off the roads. Visveswara Rao, the general manager of Lakshmi Hyundai said, “We have a pending queue of 180 vehicles post lockdown. All these people have booked their vehicles. But we could not complete the registration process because of the lockdown.” Dealers say that not only new vehicles but even those in service centres could not be returned owing to the lockdown. “Our business has been hit. We are not sure how much we’ll be able to recover after the lockdown. Our priority will be to deliver the new vehicles as well as the serviced ones,” said Dasaratha Ramreddy, managing partner of Srinivasa Yamaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-makes-cars-wait-in-showrooms/articleshow/75511392.cms||Arpit Basu
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Transgender person feeds 300 homeless daily||VISAKHAPATNAM: Responding to the humanitarian crisis caused by the spread of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown, Mallika— a 24-year-old transgender person— has taken up the responsibility of feeding 300 people every day. Many of these people are homeless, belong to nomadic tribes, and have been residing under a flyover at Kancharapalem on March 24. Speaking to STOI, Mallika said, “I saw these people with their kids. At first I felt that remaining clean will help them stave off the coronavirus. I brought a water tanker for them to bathe in and gave them fresh clothes. Subsequently, I also decided to provide them food with the help of my family members.” “While making the food, I ask the children what they want to eat and prepare accordingly. For the first 20 days, I provided them food with my own savings. Since then, I have been requesting people to donate. Intially, Kamat Hotel’s Subba Raju helped me,” Mallika said. B Srinivasa Rao, president of Visakha chemists and druggists association, who has joined in Mallika’s efforts by providing financial support said, “We support the noble endeavour. This is the time for everyone to lend a helping hand. Mallika prepares the food at home and distributes it among the homeless. We have started providing tea and snacks at GVMC’s shelter homes.” However, now all of Mallika’s savings have dried up. Consequently, Mallika is urging people to donate so that these homeless people and their children keep getting food through the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/transgender-person-feeds-300-homeless-daily/articleshow/75511410.cms||Siva G
May 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 400 litres of arrack destroyed, 25 held||TIRUPATI: Punganur urban police on Saturday destroyed 400 litres of illicitly distilled arrack, 600 kgs of black jaggery, 5,000 litres of jaggery wash in a raid. They also seized 13 motorcycles and arrested 25 persons. In a separate incident, police seized 60 litres of arrack and arrested nine manufacturers at Anuppalli village. They seized six motorcycles from the accused. Acting on a tip off, Ramachandrapuram police conducted vehicular checks at Anuppalli village and were able to nab the accused. Trade in illicit arrack has increased after alcohol shops were closed owing to the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/400-litres-of-arrack-destroyed-25-held/articleshow/75511421.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizagites struggle to pay property tax as GVMC portal malfunctions||Visakhapatnam: Both payment and collection of property tax in Visakhapatnam has emerged as a problem in this lockdown. The former because a number of people complained that they have either been unable to access the GVMC portal or have had internet issues. To make matters worse, with transport suspended many are unable to access GVMC’s Soukaryam centers. “I planned to pay the property tax in the last week of March, I cannot access the GVMC portal,” said Ramanujam, a resident of Lawson’s Bay colony. “We collected Rs 236 crore, including vacant land tax or VLT as against the target of Rs 350 crore in the recently concluded financial year of 2019-2020. The previous year’s collection was Rs 303 crore. We have just come to know about the online payment problem. We are trying to encourage people to opt for alternative payment options. Our Soukaryam centers are open every day,” GVMC commissioner G Srijana told STOI. GVMC had lost around Rs 100 crore in taxes due to the lockdown. Usually, the collection in March is around Rs 75 crore to Rs 100 crore. But this March, GVMC has collected only Rs 27 crore so far. Property tax for the first month, April, in this new financial year was Rs 32 crore, the deputy commissioner of revenue Phani Ram said. Every year, VLT assessments are increased and assessment numbers rise as new constructions would be included in the tax assessment, GVMC sources said. Not only this, few assessments would also be revised and the target of the property tax would see a rise as well. This financial year, the greater Visakha civic authorities had decided to collect Rs 385 crore in property tax, but assessments and construction, much like several other work have been suspended owing to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizagites-struggle-to-pay-property-tax-as-gvmc-portal-malfunctions/articleshow/75511440.cms||Siva G
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Complaint against irregularities in PDS||VISAKHAPATNAM: President of Visakhapatnam district’s consumer forum federation, K Venkata Ramana has demanded that the district administration examine ration dealers’ personal details including pictures and Aadhaar cards as well as authorisation certificates. The demand comes in light of allegations of mismanagement by ration dealers in the district. Ramana has asked for investigation into the same with the help of third party agencies. Ramana said that authorities have not taken adequate action even after the joint collector lodged a police complaint against a dealer for irregularities. He demanded that the authorisation certificates of all 2,193 ration dealers in the district be examined. On January 9, joint collector L Siva Sankar had lodged a complaint at Anakapalli police station against a ration dealer. In response to the complaint, officials of the civil supplies department, according to Ramana, only submitted a complaint copy and not an enquiry report. Ramana said that the government had introduced the ePos system in 2015 to curb irregularities in ration distribution. As part of this system, biometric information of a ration card holder is required. Ramana said that the irregularities have now acquired a different character wherein the ration dealers’ information on the ePos machines has been tampered with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/plaint-against-irregularities-in-pds/articleshow/75511448.cms||Siva G
May 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||S’kulam’s first medical team in quarantine||Srikakulam: A team of 38 members of a Covid-19 medical service team, from senior doctors to sweepers, have been put in quarantine from Saturday. The team successfully treated five Covid-19 cases at the district Covid hospital— Great Eastern Medical School (GEMS) in Srikakulam district. The team members will be allowed to return home only after they finish the 14-day quarantine. Speaking to TOI, hospital superintendent A Hemanth said that the team consists of seven doctors, eight nurses and the people who supplied food to patients. They had started working on April 24 on the first Covid positive cases reported in the district. Since then, the team resided at the hospital and was relieved of duties on Saturday. A second team of 42 members has been pressed into service, Hemanth informed. Hemanth said, “We have conducted tests on all 38 members and all have come out negative. We have now engaged the second batch and have started forming a third batch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/skulams-first-medical-team-in-quarantine/articleshow/75511464.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 22 in Chandigarh leaves just two entry points open||CHANDIGARH: Sector 22 is the latest to join the list of localities cutting off its lanes for entry and exit, in a bid to prevent the virus from slipping in. Sector 40 started the trend that was picked up by sectors 27 and 30. In Sector 22, residents with the collaboration of Chandigarh Police have left only two points open for entry — one from the Sector 21-22 light point and the other from Sector 22-23 light point. Over a dozen volunteers stand guard at these sites from morning till evening. Sector 22 adjoins sectors 17, 21, 23 and 35, having multiple entry and exit points. Volunteers will carry out thermal screening of all people entering the sector. Their vehicles will be sanitised. Volunteers will hand over masks to people not wearing one and ask the reasons for their visit in the presence of police. “The decision was taken after consulting police. Each vendor will be screened for fever. As passes have been issued to vendors, we will allow only those authorised to enter Sector 22,” said area councillor Ravikant Sharma. “The decision to seal the sector was a unanimous one for the safety and security of residents, so that the infection cannot be transmitted,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-22-in-chandigarh-leaves-just-two-entry-points-open/articleshow/75513200.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||How doctors, nurses are going out of their way to connect patients to families||MUMBAI: In these Covid-19 numbing times, the stressed medical fraternity, burdened with work and the fears and rigour involved in dealing with a highly contagious disease, has not lost touch with its more caring side. In early April, Dr Hiren Ambegaonkar, CEO of Mahim’s S L Raheja Hospital, signed as the next of kin at the Shivaji Park crematorium for the hospital’s first Covid-19 casualty, taking care of the final rites and reaching home at 3am. “The patient was a businessman in his sixties. His children were stuck abroad and his wife, a cancer survivor, couldn’t make it to our hospital when he died at around 11 pm,” said Ambegaonkar. Uncomfortable with handing over the body to the BMC workers, he stepped in. “The patient’s family couldn’t make it due to the circumstances, it’s the least we could do,” said Ambegaonkar. When 86-year-old Narmada Kankani of Pali Hill was put in the ICU of the same hospital with Covid-19, her inability to handle mobile phones was an added worry for her family in lockdown. But the young nurses and doctors did more than just treat her lower respiratory infection: they connected Kankani to her son or grand-daughter daily during her 12-day stay. ICU video calls let kin see patients on ventilatorThe Bahuva family from Malad fondly remembers ‘Dr Darshana’ because she would call them at 11am every day to provide an update on their father, Dhiraj, a 68-year-old doctor who was on oxygen support for most of his 14-day stay at the Sir H N Reliance Hospitalrun ward in BMC’s Seven Hills Hospital, Andheri. “A nurse would call in the evening as well,” said Dr Bahuva’s son. The grateful Dr Bahuva got a hospital staffer to click a typical Covid-19 photograph ---the patient flanked by the treating doctors in their personal protection gear --- though he cannot recognise them as he had never seen them without their masks. The Covid-19 outbreak is forging unexpected “connections” between the carers of patients and their worried families. What is otherwise a duty --- hospitals have to update families about patients in the ICUs --- is now being done with a personal touch, often through video calls. “In some cases, we use a tablet computer to allow relatives to ‘see’ the patients, especially the elderly or those attached to oxygen cylinders or ventilators,” said Joy Chakraborthy, COO of Hinduja Hospital, Mahim. Unfortunately, the staff at the overburdened public hospitals that are catering to the bulk of Covid-19 patients has had little time to add a more personal touch. “I have noticed most patients have their own mobile phones and keep talking,” said a senior doctor. Regarding patients on ventilators, a BMC official said updates are provided from the communication desk at the hospital concerned. “Even during regular times, phones are not allowed in our ICUs,” pointed out an intensivist from a public hospital. “We were busy during non-Covid-19 days and are busier now, so it is difficult to reach out to relatives with an update,” added a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/how-doctors-nurses-are-going-out-of-their-way-to-connect-patients-to-families/articleshow/75513198.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 3, 2020||India||Maha tries skin disease drug on Covid patient||MUMBAI: A 35-year-old Covid positive patient admitted at BMC-run KEM Hospital, Parel, became the first in Maharashtra to receive a novel biologics (drugs which contain components of a living organism) as part of a clinical trial to beat the viral infection. The drug, Itolizumab, manufactured by Bengaluru-based biotech major Biocon to treat a skin condition called psoriasis, was given as an infusion to the patient over an eight-hour period on Saturday, said KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. Itolizumab is one of the drugs that Biocon has ‘repurposed’ to fight Covid-19-related complications. “Some weeks back, we applied to conduct a multi-centric clinical trial for Itolizumab at KEM Hospital and other civic hospitals that treat Covid-19,” said Deshmukh. TOI has not been able to verify if the drug has been administered for Covid-related treatment in any other state. The drug has been classified as a “humanised anti-CD6 monoclonal antibody” or a laboratory-produced molecule meant to serve as substitute antibodies that can restore or modulate the immune system’s attack on foreign cells. The patient is a driver from Worli who was admitted to KEM Hospital on April 27 and tested positive a day later. He is on oxygen support as his oxygen levels dipped to 90. “He can be classified as a moderately ill Covid patient and we hope the drug will boost his immune system enough for him to be able to fight the infection successfully,” said a KEM Hospital doctor. Meanwhile, BMC officials said the search is on for a second Covid patient who could be eligible for BMC’s ongoing plasma convalescent therapy clinical trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maha-tries-skin-disease-drug-on-covid-patient/articleshow/75513209.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Panjab University hostellers do not want to go home’||CHANDIGARH: Students of Panjab University, who are currently residing in hostels, do not want to go back to their native places as they feel the campus is a safer place for stay during the Covid-19 outbreak, said a university official. According to R K Singla, dean, university of instructions (DUI), after directions were issued to hostel wardens to ask the inmates to return to their homes following the due procedure, they started receiving representations from students expressing their desire to stay back. The students currently in the university hostels are mostly from states like Haryana, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, J&K and Ladakh. Singla said those wardens, who propose to get the hostels vacated forcefully, have been told that no student should be asked to leave until arrangements are made by the state to travel. The DUI said he has received some representations from students, stating that they do not want to leave hostel as they find it safer than their homes. “A possible reason can be that students do not want to be sent for quarantine after reaching their states,” he said. Students welfare dean Emanuel Nahar said the staff has already been asked to upload details of students from HP, Punjab and Haryana for e-passes and they are coordinating with the nodal officer of the Chandigarh administration. The DSW said the wardens have been instructed to ask willing students, and mess and canteen workers to register themselves for e-passes. Navdeep Goyal, chairman of advisory committee, said they do not find it safe to allow inmates to stay in hostels, as the security guards deputed there come from outside. He said there are number of research scholars, who are ready for submission of their thesis, which got delayed due to the lockdown. They have suggested that a committee be constituted to explore the possibility of online submission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panjab-university-hostellers-do-not-want-to-go-home/articleshow/75513210.cms||Aarti Kapur
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Patients discharged in Hazaribag, Bokaro||HAZARIBAG/BOKARO: Hazaribag became a cornovirus-free district on Saturday as third and last Covid-19 patient made a full recovery and was discharged from hospital on Saturday morning. Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha, head of medicine department at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital, said, “We are happy to that all the patients are cured and are back home.” Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said, “Of the three patients here, two were released a few days back and the third was discharged on Saturday. He will be in home quarantine as per the protocol.” The 27-year-old patient from Kamardiha village in Barkagaon block had tested positive on April 15. Singh said of the 984 samples sent to Rims for tests, 884 were found negative and reports of 36 are awaited. Meanwhile, one more patient was discharged from Bokaro General Hospital on Friday. Of the 10 patients in the district, six have been cured and one has died. The industrial district now has three active cases. The three patients, officials said, are stable. Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar said, “With the relentless efforts of the district administration and the BGH staff, six patients have been cured. We hope the remaining three will recover soon.” Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said of 380 persons have been tested in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/patients-discharged-in-hazaribag-bokaro/articleshow/75512871.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||First batch of stranded labourers, students reach Ranchi||Ranchi: Rajendra Ram admittedly felt "alive again" as he arrived at Ranchi's near-empty Hatia station around midnight on Friday, grateful to be back home on the first passenger train to run anywhere in the country in 40 days. "It wasn't as if I was sleeping hungry in Telangana. But uncertainty and fear were killing a part of me every day. I longed to be reunited with my family – nothing else mattered," said the 50-year-old construction worker, who was among 1,225 migrant workers almost spirited away from their camp in a secret operation coordinated by the Telangana government at Jharkhand's request. The first passenger train to operate in the 40 days since the nationwide lockdown was imposed reached Hatia station in Ranchi just before midnight on Friday, bringing the first batch of migrant labourers back home. The 24-coach train had started from Lingampalli, in Telangana, at 4.50am the same day. Soon after being screened and medically cleared to return to his home in Chatra district, Rajendra's fellow traveller Sujan Horo said, "I didn't expect to return anytime soon. I am so happy the government welcomed us like heroes. We can breathe easy now." Among the Jharkhand returnees, nobody knew until the last moment that they would be evacuated by train. It was several hours after the train left Hyderabad's Lingampalli station at 4.50am on Friday that the Union home ministry announced a series of point-to-point "Shramik Specials" to carry stranded people back to their native states. Everyone who arrived at Hatia station received a mask and a rose each on getting off the train. The entire process of thermal screening was videographed. "The migrant workers were later taken to their home districts on 60 sanitised buses. They were screened again when the buses reached the district headquarters and either sent home or put in institutional quarantine, based on medical advice," an official said. A senior official in the Ranchi rail division said the empty train departed for Lingampally around 2:10am after it was sanitised and all the coaches were locked to prevent any unauthorised entry Officials said 800-odd students have also returned to the state from the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan and another batch of 1,000 is expected to arrive at Dhanbad on Sunday. On Monday, a train from Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala) will also reach Hatia station with another batch of stranded labourers, the officials added. A Ranchi district administration official said no relative of those on board the train was allowed at the station. He added, “Each compartment of the Shramik special train had 40-45 people who were seated in accordance with social distancing norms. Upon entering Jharkhand at Chakradharpur station at 8pm on Friday, all the passengers were offered packed dinner.” He added, “The migrant workers were then put on 60 sanitised buses and taken to their home districts. Each bus had around 25-28 passengers persons in each to ensure social distancing.” More buses were arranged at the district headquarters to ferry them to their villages from there, he added. Officials said a total of 281 passengers were from Palamu, 443 from Garhwa, 101 from Bokaro, 22 from Hazaribag, 67 from Latehar and others from Ramgarh, Chatra, Deoghar, Sahibganj, Simdega, Dumka districts. Later in the day, around 1,200 aspiring doctors and engineers disembarked from another special train for students stranded in Kota and went through the same protocols before being sent to their home districts on 55 buses. All of them will be in home quarantine for 14 days. Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said, “Around 1,200 students arrived safely at Hatia. They were sent to their respective districts escorted by 400 security personnel.” As many as 250 of the students are residents of Ranchi district. Thanking the government, Harshita Akanksha, one of the students, said, “I had given up hopes of coming back home but all thanks to Hemant sir and Narendra Modi sir, we reach home safe.” Some parents were also stuck with their children at Kota. Rajrappa resident Gurpreet Kaur said, “The atmosphere in Kota is depressing because of the pandemic. Being away from home made things unbearable.” Meanwhile, the state government will now issue permits to individuals who want to use their private vehicles to bring back stranded family members. During a video-conference with MLAs and MPs of North and South Chotanagpur region on Saturday, CM Hemant Soren said, “People can seek permission from their district administration for movement passes.” He appealed to public representatives to coordinate with nodal officials for different states for smooth coordination in in bringing back the stranded people. Chief minister Hemant Soren said, “The process to bring our people back has begun and we will ensure every stranded citizen of Jharkhand returns home soon. I was waiting for clear guidelines from the Centre as I didn’t want to break the laws even though some states had done so by violating lockdown rules.” He added, “After a lot of pressure, I wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested him to run special trains for our migrant labourers and students stranded in other states.” The CM said that their main challenge was to ensure that all the people brought back were properly screened. The government is also devising a plan to offer employment to the migrant labourers. “The real challenge is to ensure livelihood for such a large number of people. We are working on a plan to come up with new guidelines of MNREGA so that we can offer rural and urban specific works to these people.” A government official said migrants stranded in Maharashtra, Delhi and Kerala are also expected to return home on Shramik special trains and modalities for this are being worked out. He said, “High-loaded zones are keen to send stranded people as early as they could. Telangana approached us first and we had agreed to the proposal. We are in talks with Maharashtra too, but they don’t want to run trains from Mumbai or Pune as they are high risk zones. They are exploring options to ply a train from Nashik. We shall announce the plan once things are finalised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/first-batch-of-stranded-labourers-students-reach-ranchi/articleshow/75512868.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-techie hikes 1000km from Kolkata to meet wife||Kolkata: Love for his wife and his unborn child drove a 25-year-old former IT employee to hike nearly 1,000 kilometres — from Kolkata to Guwahati — during the lockdown. Sandip Sarkar had resigned from his position at a Sector V firm to move back to his home state of Assam. However, the national lockdown set in as he was serving his notice period, preventing him from travelling. Sarkar joined a WhatsApp group formed by Rituraj Choudhury, also from Guwahati, who urged the Assam government to arrange for evacuation on behalf of 10-12 people stuck in Kolkata. But, worried about his five-months’ pregnant wife and aged parents, Sarkar decided not to wait. Determined to be home for his wife’s 24th birthday on May 7, he set out on foot on April 25. He kept his journey a secret till he reached Guwahati, fearing intervention. “I walked from Kolkata to Dankuni. There, I paid Rs 1,500 to the driver of a courier company’s van to give me a lift till Bolpur. I requested a few other trucks there, but they were asking for Rs 20,000-32,000,” he said. From Bolpur, Sarkar walked to Moregram in Murshidabad. “Locals saw me walking with two bags on Tuesday and grew suspicious. They assaulted me, alleging that I was spreading coronavirus. Thankfully, a few civic volunteers nearby came to my rescue and put me in a toto, which left me stranded on the highway after sometime,” he said. From there, Sarkar walked till Cooch Behar, eating whatever he could find on the way. Sometimes he would rest at roadside ATMs where he would charge his cellphone as well. “I couldn’t sleep at night for fear of being robbed. I also needed my phone as I was totally dependent on Google Maps,” he said. At Cooch Behar, he was helped by a truck driver, who gave him a decent dinner and dropped him a few kilometres past the Assam border, where he was screened. Once inside Assam, he walked till Fatasil Ambari police station in Guwahati on Saturday to get tested as he had arrived from a Covid-19 Red zone. “I did not want to put anyone at risk,” he said. Fatasil Ambari police station OC Saidul Islam told TOI: “We provided him lunch and arranged for an ambulance. We shall extend every possible help.” Sarkar was taken to Guwahati Medical College and Hospital where he was screened and his swab sample collected for testing. GMCH superintendent Ramen Talukdar said: “Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) officials will be monitoring him and he has been advised 14 days’ home quarantine. We shall decide on further action once his test results are out.” Sarkar’s wife, Bindu, said: “I am extremely happy that he is back. But we are also worried about his health as he has walked a long way and is very weak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-techie-hikes-1000km-from-kolkata-to-meet-wife/articleshow/75512964.cms||Abhishek Chakraborty
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Governor attacks unprecedented, unparalleled, says Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Saturday respond-ed to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s charges against her and her government, calling the reg-ular attacks from Raj Bhavan unprecedented and without any parallel in the country. “I would challenge anyone, repeat anyone, to produce such correspondence and such oral statements from any governor to any CM in any part of India at any point of time since our Constitution came into force in 1950,” the CM said in her letter to the governor. Banerjee, while commenting on the “tone, tenor and language” of the governor’s letters, said: “When I read your two letters (of April 23 and 24), and many earlier ones as well, I felt more sad than angry. My second emotion was one of amusement. I thought how almost all your choicest epithets applied exactly to your (own) letters and statements,” she wrote. “Preaching without practice and sermonising while violating do not behove you or your office,” the letter added. The letter reached Raj Bhavan hours after Dhankhar ask-ed the state government to come clear on Covid numbers. “The number of positive cases reported in the health bulletin on April 30 was 572 whereas information sent to the centre said it was 931. The gap cannot be reconciled even after considering those recovered/dead. Lack of coordination is awful when people are suffering untold miseries,” the governor tweeted on Saturday in a continuation of his earlier tweets on “the lack of transparency in Covid management” and the “PDS scam”. He also said he found “no substance” in the CM’s letter. Banerjee’s response to Dhankhar cited several Supreme Court judgements on a governor’s role, sparking off a fresh war of words. “This governor should step out of Raj Bhavan and take office at the BJP state headquarters. He has never asked the centre why faulty test kits were sent to Bengal, which delayed our testing process. Does he have the guts to ask the centre about this?” Kolkata mayor and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim asked. “Why should the state government hide facts? Covid is a pandemic. The centre and the state have nothing to do with the outbreak of a disease,” he added. Trinamool secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee charged the governor of acting like Bengal’s “enemy”. “Who has prevented him from working jointly with the state government? He is the state’s constitutional head but behaves like an enemy of the state and its people. We want the governor to act as a friend,” he said. State food minister Jyotipriya Mullick said that the governor did not have his public distribution system facts right. “Bengal is yet to get pulses from the centre, which has engaged the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) to supplying pulses. It has stocks of 4,228 metric tonnes when the requirement for only Bengal is 14,400 metric tonnes,” Mullick said. A Bengal BJP delegation led by state general secretary Sayantan Basu and Jayprakash Majumdar apprised Dhankhar about the “suppression of Covid cases and ration scam”. “We want to know where the state government is dumping bodies. People do not believe the CM,” Basu said. CPM leader Sujan Chakrabarty, too, took on the state government. “We want to know whether the Covid death figure in West Bengal is 33 or 105,” Chakrabarty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-attacks-unprecedented-unparalleled-says-mamata/articleshow/75512975.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Covid-19 toll rises by 15 to 48||KOLKATA: Bengal added 15 to its tally of Covid-19 deaths over the last two days taking the toll to 48. Also, 127 new positive cases were reported in the past 48 hours, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 659, a health department bulletin for May 1 and 2 released on Saturday said. Altogether, 45 people were discharged over the last two days after treatment, taking the total number of cured to 199. Testing count has also been substantially ramped up. On Friday, 2,410 persons were tested, taking the total test count in the state to 20,976. On Thursday, state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had stated that the experts’ panel set up by the government to audit the deaths had examined 105 cases and held that 33 deaths were due to Covid-19 and the rest due to serious co-morbidities. The Saturday bulletin also pegged the number admitted in hospital isolation at 254 and those in institutional quarantine centres at 582. The government, which used to initially report death figures in the daily bulletin, had stopped the practice after the audit committee was set up to determine the cause of death. Thereafter, the figures were released once the committee had assessed the deaths and reported them to the state health department. However, on Thursday, the chief secretary had said the audit committee would henceforth check random death reports and not scrutinize every death. He had further said the findings of the expert committee, along with its observations, would be released to end the confusion over Covid deaths in the state. The expert panel feels keeping detailed records of a patient’s case history and recording the chronic conditions and compromised immune system is necessary to decide the line of investigation. The twin bulletins issued on Saturday pegged the number of persons admitted in hospital isolation at 254 and those in institutional quarantine centres at 582.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-covid-toll-rises-by-15-to-48/articleshow/75512978.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||Pleasant weather not related to lockdown: MeT||RANCHI: The weather department on Saturday discarded a popular theory that the state is witnessing a change in the weather pattern, unusual for April and May, due to a drop in air pollutants after the lockdown. Director of India Meteorological Department, Ranchi, S D Kotal, said, “It has nothing to do with the lockdown. We are witnessing a comparatively lower temperature and a pleasant weather condition because of frequent thunderstorms in Jharkhand and neighbouring states like Chhattisgarh and Bihar.” Predicting a pleasant weather for the week to come, Kotal added, “The weather will remain pleasant in the coming week and light rain, thundershowers are expected in many parts of the state.” “The weather this year has been quite rainy in April and May due to frequent localised thunderstorms. The weather condition can be attributed to a cyclonic circulation and eastward movement of a trough. People may feel colder in the later hours of the day because of the rain.” The MeT department had earlier said that this year, summer would be hotter and the average temperature may witness a surge by 1-1.5 degrees Celsius. However, on Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.4°C in Daltonganj, while the minimum was around 18.3°C at Kanke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/pleasant-weather-not-related-to-lockdown-met/articleshow/75516685.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Ration violence rocks Murshidabad||Behrampore/Kolkata: Violence and arson were reported from at least four areas of Murshidabad on Saturday as ration card holders accused dealers of malpractice. The governor took cognizance of the allegation and asked the state government to weed out “corruption” in the public distribution system. Deprived PDS beneficiaries allegedly lit a fire using kerosene in front of a dealer’s house-cum-shop at Punashi under Shimulia gram panchayat in Salar. A large contingent of cops rushed to the spot and quelled the protest. Later, police also detained accused PDS dealer Halim Seikh Sarkar. People at Krishnapur in Lalgola complained that ration dealer Kayem Sheikh and his henchmen pelted stones and bricks from the rooftop, targeting beneficiaries, when he was accused of distributing essentials of substandard quality. Five reportedly sustained head injuries. Kayem dubbed it a conspiracy. At Fatepur, also in Lalgola, residents organized an agitation against PDS dealer Rabiul Islam for allegedly distributing adulterated rice. It is learnt additional SP Tanmoy Sarkar had to rush to three spots in Lalbag to pacify protesters. The dealers told police they were not receiving stocks to last a month, as announced by the chief minister, while customers were pressuring them for distribution of the same. In all the incidents, preliminary police reports suggest the opposition’s role in “instigating beneficiaries”. However, in Ward 20 of Trinamool-run Jangipur Municipality, the party faction opposing the civic chairman organized an ag-itation against dealer Rahamat Sheikh. It is led by the local TMC councillor. State food minister Jyotipriya Mullick blamed BJP and Congress for Saturday’s violence. “As many as 63,69,406 people have received ration. Some people (owing allegiance to opposition parties) targeted ration shops in Murshidabad even before they opened. Nevertheless, as many as 271 ration dealers have been taken to task,” he said. Mullick maintained that although the PM had announced free ration on March 25, the state was yet to get its entire rice quota. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury, on the other hand, urged beneficiaries to check if they were getting rice in adequate quantity and of good quality. “People are supposed to get the Swarna variety of rice. They are instead receiving a substandard variety. The public distribution system in Bengal has become corrupt. If leaders of the ruling party are given a free hand to collect money from dealers, why won’t beneficiaries agitate amid lockdown?” the Behrampore MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ration-violence-rocks-murshidabad/articleshow/75512974.cms||Sukumar Mahato
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal talks migrant return with low-infected states||Kolkata: The Bengal government is talking to moderately or low infected states like Rajasthan, UP, MP and Andhra Pradesh to bring migrant workers back home. Private bus owners in the state have also started to line up nearly 15,000 buses to transport them. Sources at Nabanna on Saturday said they had started discussing with states where the Covid-19 infection is moderate or low. “The situation in states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu or New Delhi does not look good. We will begin with states which have comparatively lower infections. We will also try to rescue tourists and students who are stranded in these states,” said an official. Railway ministry sources said they are yet to receive any request for special trains for the migrant workers. “Respective state governments or the home states will discuss the details with the originating states first. Once both agree to the formalities, they will approach the railways with a request to run an end-to-end train from originating state to home state,” said an official with the Railways. On the designated date, the originating state will pick up the labourers and transport them to the station after medical screening. These special trains will not pick up people midway and will only stop to change driver/guard or pick up meals. At the home state, the workers will again be screened. They will be dropped at their doorsteps. The labourers will then be ordered to go into home quarantine unless medical reports suggest they need to be sent to hospital. Private bus owners are hopeful of getting 15,000 buses from different districts to transport workers. “It is impossible to manage all of them in buses. We will depend on transport through railways,” said an official with the state transport department. “We are readying a district-wise list of the buses for the state government. But the challenge lies in having adequate number of drivers and helpers. Many are afraid to move out of the state fearing an infection,” said Rahul Chatterjee, general secretary of Bus Minibus Coordination Committee. “In absence of data, we are arranging enough number of buses which can be deployed based on real time demand,” said an official. According to Census 2011, nearly 5.8 lakh people migrated from Bengal with almost 45.3% going to Maharashtra and 34% to Delhi. Besides Maharastra and Delhi, a significant number of labourers go to Gujarat, J &K, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-talks-migrant-return-with-low-infected-states/articleshow/75512979.cms||Saibal Gupta
May 3, 2020||Kolkata||State, Centre differ on red-zone classification||Kolkata: Differences have cropped up between the Union health ministry and the state health department over the classification of red zones with the former listing 10 Bengal districts as Covid-19 hotspots and the state countering that only four districts are red. State principal secretary (health) Vivek Kumar, on Friday, shot off a letter to Union health secretary Preeti Sudan, alleging the assessment on red zones in Bengal was erroneous. “Based on the current parameters of the government of India for categorization of areas for Covid-19, the districts in the red zone in West Bengal are only four: Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Paraganas and East Midnapore,” the letter stated. The letter came a day after a presentation on the red, orange and green zones in various states made by the Cabinet secretary on April 30 during the video-conference with states. The Union ministry of health & family welfare had a day later sent the data to state chief secretaries. In the covering letter, Sudan said that while the earlier classification of red, orange and green zones was based on cumulative cases reported and doubling rate, the classification had been made more broad-based and multi-factoral, taking into consideration incidents of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback following rise in recovery rates. She further stated that while the list was dynamic and would be revised on a weekly basis or earlier, states were welcome to add districts to the red and orange list but could not relax zonal classification of districts marked red or orange on its own. Kumar in response said the list was wrong and that only four districts in the state — Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore — were the only ones in the red and 11 districts in the orange zone. Both lists agree on the green districts. Kuamr pointed out that two of the 10 districts — Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri — marked red by the health ministry had reported the last case on 2nd and 4th April respectively. Three other districts categorized red — Malda, Darjeeling and West Midnapore — had last reported cases on April 18, April 21 and April 28, respectively. A source in the health department said the number of cases in the disputed districts were low: South 24 Parganas 25, West Midnapore 12, Darjeeling 6, Jalpaiguri 5, Kalimpong 7, and Malda 2. In fact, Hooghly, that had been categorized orange by the ministry, had 31 cases with the last one reported on April 30. According to the ministry, a district will be considered green if if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district. If a district does not report a case for last 21 days, they can be considered as one level lower in zonal classification in case they are in red or orange zone. However, sources in the state said the criteria that Bengal followed for change in classification was low numbers and no fresh cases in last 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-centre-differ-on-red-zone-classification/articleshow/75512991.cms||Saibal Gupta
May 3, 2020||Ranchi||Pleasant weather not related to lockdown: MeT||RANCHI: The weather department on Saturday discarded a popular theory that the state is witnessing a change in the weather pattern, unusual for April and May, due to a drop in air pollutants after the lockdown. Director of India Meteorological Department, Ranchi, S D Kotal, said, “It has nothing to do with the lockdown. We are witnessing a comparatively lower temperature and a pleasant weather condition because of frequent thunderstorms in Jharkhand and neighbouring states like Chhattisgarh and Bihar.” Predicting a pleasant weather for the week to come, Kotal added, “The weather will remain pleasant in the coming week and light rain, thundershowers are expected in many parts of the state.” “The weather this year has been quite rainy in April and May due to frequent localised thunderstorms. The weather condition can be attributed to a cyclonic circulation and eastward movement of a trough. People may feel colder in the later hours of the day because of the rain.” The MeT department had earlier said that this year, summer would be hotter and the average temperature may witness a surge by 1-1.5 degrees Celsius. However, on Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.4°C in Daltonganj, while the minimum was around 18.3°C at Kanke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pleasant-weather-not-related-to-lockdown-met/articleshow/75512877.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Shops in Mohali to open on rotational basis now||MOHALI: Shops will be divided into groups in Kharar (A and B) and Zirakpur (1 and 2) to open rotation-wise to avoid any confusion during the relaxation from Monday, according to Mohali DC Girish Yadav. Shops will be open from 9am to 1pm. “Shops marked in group 1 will open on odd date and those in group 2 on even date,” the DC said. In Kharar, shops marked as A will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and those as B on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. On Sunday, all shops will remain closed. Saloons and barber shops will remain closed. Owners will have to paint their shops with their group number, A or B or 1or 2. Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain said shops under group A include hardware, sanitary fittings, cement, building material, furniture etc. Those under group B include electronic appliances, apparels including tailoring, jewellery, cosmetics, books, stationery, toys and mobile shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shops-in-mohali-to-open-on-rotational-basis-now/articleshow/75513232.cms||---
May 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana breweries back in business from tomorrow||HYDERABAD: During peak summer, especially in May, beer sales in Telangana jump to almost 60 lakh cases a month — one of the highest in the southern states when it comes to consumption of alcohol. Probably bearing this in mind, the Telangana government has allowed breweries to start their operatins from May 4. The state has six breweries. Sources said distilleries and liquor shops also stand a chance of reopening after the state cabinet meets on May 5 to discuss the way forward. Following a representation from the Association of Liquor and Beer Suppliers of Telangana (ALBST) that beer stocks needed to be refined failing which they would suffer a huge loss, the government had decided to allow them to function from Monday. About two lakh to three lakh cases of beer is lying in the breweries, which needs to be refined by adding yeast to avoid bitterness, ALBST representatives said. Another four lakh cases of beer is lying in liquor shops. “Otherwise, we could have lost Rs 90 crore if the existing stock is not refined immediately,” general secretary of Association of Liquor and Beer Suppliers of Telangana M Kameshwara Rao told STOI. He said the shelf life of beer in containers was six months. No liquor sale cost Rs 2,000 crore loss to TALBST representatives said Telangana is a major beer market. The average sales of beer per month is about 34 lakh cases a month, while sales of other liquor brands are in the range of 29 lakh cases a month. “The beer sales touch 60 lakh cases a month, especially in May,” Kameshwara Rao said. Ever since the lockdown was announced, the state government suffered a loss of about ₹2,000 crore revenue per month from liquor sales, while distilleries and breweries claim to have suffered a loss of ₹500 crore. When it comes to liquor other than beer, distilleries are worried about the raw material. Grain spirit, an ingredient, gets contaminated if liquor is stocked for a long time and needs refinement. “We have also sought permission for processing of liquor raw material. The authorities said that the state government will take a call at the cabinet meeting on May 5,” Kameshwara Rao said. The association members said to refine the raw material, the distilleries will have to spend 20-25% additional cost over and above the manufacturing cost. Meanwhile, industry sources said the government will earn about ₹700 crore a month even if the liquor shops are partially opened. “The revenues may not cross ₹700 crore as a majority of liquor shops are located in the red zone areas,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-breweries-back-in-business-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75513267.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 6-month pregnant woman fights Covid-19 with her ‘great willpower’||Mumbai: A 26-year-old Sion resident is among the 2,000 patients in the state who recovered from Covid-19 until Saturday, but what makes this woman’s recovery special is that she is six months pregnant. “I spent 13 days in the hospital ICU and will have to spend another 28 days in home quarantine, but I am feeling better,” she told TOI. When she reached S L Raheja Hospital at Mahim on April 18, she could barely breathe. “She couldn’t speak coherently because of low oxygen levels,” said Dr Sanjith Saseedharan, who heads the ICU at S L Raheja Hospital. As she was pregnant, doctors decided against putting her on ventilator support. “We decided to put her in a proning position which is difficult for a pregnant woman, but it was our best hope...,’’ said Dr Saseedharan. While most patients on proning are sedated, it wasn’t an option for a pregnant woman. “We used a bit of steroid and lots of blood thinners to ensure she gets better,” said the doctor. It took 13 days before she tested negative twice.” As the woman will now be in home quarantine, she will not be able to visit her doctor. So, her husband, who is also a doctor, will administer the medicines and injections that she requires. Doctors at the hospital said the woman has “amazing willpower”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-6-month-pregnant-woman-fights-covid-19-with-her-great-willpower/articleshow/75513270.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Shops in green, orange zones to open from 9am to 1pm from Sunday: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Shops in green and orange zones across Punjab will now open from 9 am to 1 pm from Sunday instead of 7am to 11am, chief minister Amarinder Singh announced on Saturday. However, there will be no relaxations in red and containment zones. He said this decision was taken following requests from people to open shops from 9am, the CM said. An official spokesperson said the change in timings was discussed during the Cabinet meeting, and there was consensus among the participants that these should be changed in public interest. Amarinder has asked the chief secretary to issue the necessary directives to the DCs to notify the change. On April 29, Amarinder had announced that the curfew would remain in force in Punjab till May 17, butlimit ed easing of restrictions would be allowed from April 30. Amarinder, however, made it clear that anyone found venturing out of their homes for essentials etc without wearing a mask would be strictly dealt with. He said he had issued strict directives to the police department to challan anyone seen outside without a mask. The relaxations come with strict protocols, which the people need to follow, the CM emphasised, adding that the relief had been provided to make life easier for the people and not for people to come out unnecessarily. He also directed the police to come down heavily on those found violating curfew restrictions or disrupting the state’s law and order. "We will not tolerate such actions," he warned. Emphasising the need for more tests, the chief minister asked the health department to ramp up the RT-PCR Covid testing facilities to 6,000 a day by May 15, instead of the targeted 5,800 a day by May end, while directing it to conduct its own tests on all returnees, instead of going by the tests done in other states. Pointing to the large number of returnees testing positive, Capt Amarinder said it was clear that Punjab could not rely on the tests conducted on its people stranded in other places by those respective states. Referring to the fact that several staffers at the Nanded gurdwara itself had now tested positive, Amarinder said with this the Akali claim, that there were no positive cases in Nanded and the pilgrims had got infected on the way back or on reaching Punjab, had been trashed. He once again asked the opposition to stop indulging in petty politics over such a grave issue. This was a crucial time in the state’s fight against Covid, said Amarinder said during a video-confernce with the council of ministers, which took a series of decisions to scale up the state government’s Covid-19 battle. Directing the health department to come out with a plan to advance its schedule for increasing the testing capacity, the CM stressed the need to be prepared for the worst. Amarinder said he had already asked the chief secretary to coordinate with the central government to scale up the testing capacity to 20,000 a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shops-in-green-orange-zones-to-open-from-9am-to-1pm-from-sunday-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh/articleshow/75513272.cms||---
