May 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana re-issues guidelines for lockdown 3.0||CHANDIGARH: Adhering to revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for industries and other establishments to carry out their operations, Haryana government on Sunday decided to grant permission to all the industrial units/entrepreneurs/concerns in red, orange and green zones on a weekly basis during the extended lockdown period of two weeks. Activities permitted inside the containment zone will be strictly regulated as per MHA guidelines. However, the revised guidelines shall supersede and replace the old ones issued by the state government.  An official spokesman said that as per the latest MHA guidelines, activities in a region shall be allowed based on the risk profiling of the region/districts into red, orange, and green zones. Risk profiling and demarcation of areas of containment zones shall be determined by the Union ministry of health and family welfare or health department, Haryana from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-re-issues-guidelines-for-lockdown-3-0/articleshow/75523713.cms||Manvir Saini
May 4, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD, Congress leaders trade barbs as over 600 Nanded pilgrims contract coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: A war of words erupted between Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday as the state's coronavirus count crossed 1,000 with over 600 Sikh pilgrims returning from Maharshtra's Nanded testing positive for the infection. While Majithia accused the state government of "mismanaging" the return of the pilgrims from the Nanded's Hazur Sahib gurdwara and sought the minister's sacking, Sidhu hit back at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), daring its leaders to apologise for their “misleading propaganda”. So far, 609 of the 4,000 pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded have tested positive for coronavirus. Health minister Sidhu in a statement here said the pilgrims contracted the disease before entering Punjab while stressing that 'sewadars' of the gurdwara have also tested positive for the virus. Religious leaders have testified that Nanded pilgrims were tested in Maharashtra but the Punjab government did not receive any test report from the state government till now, said Sidhu, who is under fire from the Opposition. Lashing out at SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Sidhu accused them of “indulging in political one-upmanship” over a sensitive issue, that too “without verifying facts”. “These leaders unnecessarily hyped this issue by spreading this propaganda that pilgrims are being labelled as coronavirus positive as part of a conspiracy,” said Sidhu. By politicising this issue, Akali leaders were not only trying to demoralise all frontline warriors who are going beyond their call of duty to save Punjab but also giving false and fabricated comments over such a sensitive issue, Sidhu alleged. Sidhu said there is no need to worry or panic after the spike in cases with the return of pilgrims. He said the pilgrims have been given the best treatment and also assured that the state will recover from the challenge just as it did first from situations arising out of the return of foreigners and then Tablighi Jamaat members. Meanwhile, Majithia asked chief minister Amarinder Singh to sack Sidhu from the cabinet. Majithia alleged that Sidhu had started defaming the pilgrims by stating that they had spoiled all the good work done by the Punjab government in controlling Covid-19. Stating that the "good work" of the health department has already been exposed by health workers who had “failed” to get PPE kits and facilities like ambulances and ventilators, the Akali leader said Sidhu has proven to be “utterly incompetent” and should quit his post immediately. Majithia claimed that it was a fact that the Punjab government did not follow the ICMR guidelines while repatriating the pilgrims. He said air-conditioned buses were used against established norms. "Social distancing was not followed. The buses came through red zones and it was because of this mishandling that pilgrims, who were in good health in Nanded for more than one month, tested positive for Covid-19 on their return to Punjab", claimed Majithia. He said this had also been borne out by the statement of Congress minister from Maharashtra Ashok Chavan who blamed the Punjab government for the plight of the pilgrims. Majithia said the Congress-led government had first targeted NRIs and was now targeting Sikhs. "If the state government commits mistakes in repatriation by mishandling the operation, it should not try to put the blame on others," he said. He also sought from the Punjab government to shift the pilgrims to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee 'sarais' for quarantine purposes. He claimed that the pilgrims from Nanded have been quarantined in unhygienic government facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-congress-leaders-trade-barbs-as-over-600-nanded-pilgrims-contract-coronavirus/articleshow/75523770.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Police gift cake to newly wed couple in Ludhiana amid lockdown||LUDHIANA: In a humble gesture, a newly married couple cut the cake gifted to them by police after a simple wedding ceremony at Chowk in Machhiwara area of Ludhiana on Sunday. Police officials said that Ninder Singh, son of Tarseem Lal of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony got married to a girl from Garhi Tarkhana village on Sunday. They added that after getting married at the village, the groom along with bride and other family members were going home when they were stopped at a checkpost set up as part of curfew restrictions at Charan Kanwal Chowk in Machhiwara. Cops said that after the vehicle stopped, father of groom came out and told the police team that they were returning after getting his son married. They added that Tarseem Lal also produced curfew pass as per the norms. Police officials said that constable Jarnail Singh who was deputed at the check post got impressed with the fact that the family had taken just five persons for the ceremony and brought a cake to share their joy, which the newly-wed couple cut in the presence of cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-gift-cake-to-newly-wed-couple-in-ludhiana-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75523823.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan interacts with Odia NRIs||BHUBANESWAR: Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday interacted with Pravasi Odias residing in the gulf countries including the UAE, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman through video conferencing. He discussed about the Covid-19 situation in the gulf region and measures they are taking to keep themselves protected. "I urged them to take care of each other, especially the Indian diaspora in these difficult times. Also, reassured them not to worry about their families back home as our government has taken necessary steps to address their needs on time," he added. He said washing of hands in a regular manner, maintaining hygiene and social distancing are key factors in emerging victorious from this health crisis. He also requested them to follow the lockdown guidelines laid down by their authorities to eliminate the risk of Covid-19 infection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/union-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-interacts-with-odia-nris/articleshow/75524060.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government allows movement of people in 16 districts identified as green zones||BHUBANESWAR: People living in green zones of the state can now move freely in motorcycles and taxis between 7am to 7pm during the extended lockdown period to be continued till May 17. In the orange and red zones, movement of individuals and vehicles are allowed only for permitted activities according to the revised order issued by the state government on Sunday. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy issued the order with many relaxations for various activities based on the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. The relaxations are not applied for the containment zones in rural and urban areas according to the order. “The district collectors and municipal commissioners are required to continually assess the risk to public health and with the primary objective of keeping the spread of Covid-19 in check, calibrate their response and impose any further restrictions as needed, in respect of activities permitted in this order, within their jurisdiction,” said Tripathy in the order. As many as 16 districts are categorised as green zones in Odisha while 11 districts including Khurda district are marked as orange zones. Three districts and Bhubaneswar city are now in red zones. Though intra-state and inter-state movement of buses would continue to be suspended during the lockdown period, the state government allowed operation of auto-rickshaw and cycle rickshaw only in orange and green zones with an aim to help the people to earn livelihoods. Similarly, taxis and cab aggregators like Ola and Uber are allowed to run in orange and green zones with limited passengers while in red zones cab aggregators are allowed to run for transportation of healthcare professionals. According to the order, four wheelers in all three zones for permitted or non-permitted activities are allowed to run with two passengers excluding driver. Two wheelers can run with rider and pillion in green and orange zones while in red zones two wheelers are allowed without pillion rider. The state government’s order also allowed barber shops, spas and saloons to operate in orange and green zones. Also, e-commerce activities of all goods can be continued in orange and green zones while in red zones, e-commerce activities are allowed only for essential goods. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, shops in residential complexes are allowed without any distinction of essential or non-essential goods in urban areas by maintaining social distancing guidelines. In rural areas, all shops except malls are allowed to open without any distinction of essential or non-essential, said the order. In a major steps towards reviving the industrial economy, the state government allowed all industrial activities in rural area while in urban areas industrial activities are allowed only in orange and green zones. “In red zones of urban areas, industrial activities like manufacturing units of essential goods including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and their raw materials, production units which require continuous process and their supply chain, manufacturing of IT hardware, jute industry with staggered shift and social distancing and manufacturing units of packaging materials are allowed,” said the order. Construction activities of all kinds would continue in rural areas and in orange and green zones in urban areas to help the people to get works. Limited construction activities in red zones of urban areas are also allowed. Private offices can function with 33 per cent of staff strength in red zones while in orange and green zones, private offices are allowed to run with full strength. Meanwhile, the state home department on Sunday issued a fresh guideline for smooth inter-state movement of people during the lockdown. The home department notification said sub-collector or tahsildar in districts and DCPs in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack are authorized to issue passes to those who need to travel outside the state for medical emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-govt-allows-movement-of-people-in-16-districts-identified-as-green-zones/articleshow/75524109.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 4, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha government allows movement of people in 16 districts identified as green zones||BHUBANESWAR: People living in green zones of the state can now move freely in motorcycles and taxis between 7am to 7pm during the extended lockdown period to be continued till May 17. In the orange and red zones, movement of individuals and vehicles are allowed only for permitted activities according to the revised order issued by the state government on Sunday. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy issued the order with many relaxations for various activities based on the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. The relaxations are not applied for the containment zones in rural and urban areas according to the order. “The district collectors and municipal commissioners are required to continually assess the risk to public health and with the primary objective of keeping the spread of Covid-19 in check, calibrate their response and impose any further restrictions as needed, in respect of activities permitted in this order, within their jurisdiction,” said Tripathy in the order. As many as 16 districts are categorised as green zones in Odisha while 11 districts including Khurda district are marked as orange zones. Three districts and Bhubaneswar city are now in red zones. Though intra-state and inter-state movement of buses would continue to be suspended during the lockdown period, the state government allowed operation of auto-rickshaw and cycle rickshaw only in orange and green zones with an aim to help the people to earn livelihoods. Similarly, taxis and cab aggregators like Ola and Uber are allowed to run in orange and green zones with limited passengers while in red zones cab aggregators are allowed to run for transportation of healthcare professionals. According to the order, four wheelers in all three zones for permitted or non-permitted activities are allowed to run with two passengers excluding driver. Two wheelers can run with rider and pillion in green and orange zones while in red zones two wheelers are allowed without pillion rider. The state government’s order also allowed barber shops, spas and saloons to operate in orange and green zones. Also, e-commerce activities of all goods can be continued in orange and green zones while in red zones, e-commerce activities are allowed only for essential goods. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, shops in residential complexes are allowed without any distinction of essential or non-essential goods in urban areas by maintaining social distancing guidelines. In rural areas, all shops except malls are allowed to open without any distinction of essential or non-essential, said the order. In a major steps towards reviving the industrial economy, the state government allowed all industrial activities in rural area while in urban areas industrial activities are allowed only in orange and green zones. “In red zones of urban areas, industrial activities like manufacturing units of essential goods including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and their raw materials, production units which require continuous process and their supply chain, manufacturing of IT hardware, jute industry with staggered shift and social distancing and manufacturing units of packaging materials are allowed,” said the order. Construction activities of all kinds would continue in rural areas and in orange and green zones in urban areas to help the people to get works. Limited construction activities in red zones of urban areas are also allowed. Private offices can function with 33 per cent of staff strength in red zones while in orange and green zones, private offices are allowed to run with full strength. Meanwhile, the state home department on Sunday issued a fresh guideline for smooth inter-state movement of people during the lockdown. The home department notification said sub-collector or tahsildar in districts and DCPs in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack are authorized to issue passes to those who need to travel outside the state for medical emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/odisha-govt-allows-movement-of-people-in-16-districts-identified-as-green-zones/articleshow/75531235.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 4, 2020||India||PM Modi to address NAM on India's Covid-19 strategy||PM Narendra Modi will participate Monday in a virtual Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) summit meant to discuss ways to jointly fight the spread of the novel coronavirus. While the PM has repeatedly underscored the significance of international collaboration in combating the virus, the presence of Modi at NAM will still have some novelty value, as he has avoided attending NAM summits in the past, marking as many have said a significant departure in India's foreign policy. Modi became the first full-time Indian PM to skip the NAM summit in 2016. He did it again in 2019, in a decision seen as confirming India's move from non-alignment to what is described these days by Indian authorities as multi-alignment. "One has to keep in mind though that this is not the usual NAM summit. It is a virtual meeting and will see participation from a limited number of member states," said a source. Modi is expected to outline India's Covid-19 strategy in a statement at the meeting. Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev, who is the current NAM chairman, will chair the meeting. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres and WHO DG Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus are also expected to address the summit which is titled "United Against Covid-19". A diplomatic source said the summit was expected to underline the significance of multilateralism in addressing the challenges faced by NAM countries in dealing with the virus. Modi is expected to highlight that, in these challenging times, India has remained responsible in living up to our international commitments, as MEA has repeatedly said. This is most obvious in the way it has handled demands from all over the world for HCQ tablets and other medicines. India has so far provided 2.8 million HCQ tablets as grant assistance to 25 countries. In addition, consignments of HCQ and of paracetamol are being sent to 87 countries on a commercial basis. Watch PM Modi to address NAM on India's Covid-19 strategy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-to-address-nam-on-indias-covid-19-strategy/articleshow/75524149.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Mary Kom: Cherishing the time with my kids in lockdown||During the lockdown, life has stopped for boxing champ MC Mary Kom, like it has for most of us. The six-time World Champion and Olympic medallist is with her family at her central Delhi house, where she is handling the dual responsibilities of continuing training and working out, while handling the kitchen and household duties. “It’s been a difficult time. We’ve all had to make changes. I found that abstaining from my frequent shopping sprees, which I was hardly able to control, has been tough. But in all seriousness, apart from the news of the virus, hearing about doctors who went to collect samples and the police being attacked by the public was quite disturbing,” she tells us. Mary adds that she’s been cooking a lot while under lockdown, and her children love her pasta creations. “I’ve been making rotis and puris for the family. During my time in the kitchen, something else I tried my hand at is preparing various kinds and styles of pasta. My children love it. I wouldn’t say there is anything new when it comes to my activities at home – I do every household chore, be it mopping, cooking, washing, or cleaning. Of course, I have continued with my usual workout at home, and I’m getting to spend more time with my children. All this is challenging, but I am cherishing it,” she says, adding that everyone must take care of themselves during this time. “The one suggestion I’d give everyone is to stay healthy by staying active at home during the lockdown,” she signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mary-kom-cherishing-the-time-with-my-kids-in-lockdown/articleshow/75521595.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
May 4, 2020||Goa||Over 3,000 Goans looking to return: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Over 3,000 Goans want to return, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday. He said that on entering the state they will be placed under institutional quarantine for a minimum of two days. Others looking to enter the state will not be allowed “except in emergency cases”, Sawant said. “At least till May 17, we will not allow anybody to enter Goa without any reason,” the chief minister said. Further, to prevent Covid-19 from raising its head in Goa, which has been recently declared a green zone, Sawant said that entry into the state will be permitted only three times a day — at 8am, 12pm and 8pm. “The moment they enter the state in private vehicles, they will be escorted to institutional quarantine centres,” the chief minister said. The free institutional quarantine is, however, available to only Goans. “They have to produce their ID proof, including Aadhar card and voter ID card, or else they will be put in paid quarantine,” chief minister said. Later, those who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to proceed to 14-day home quarantine. This is a precautionary measure, and during this period they will have to strictly avoid contact with family members, the CM said. “If they don’t follow the norms, then they will be forcibly placed in paid quarantine,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-3000-goans-looking-to-return-cm-pramod-sawant/articleshow/75524404.cms||Murari Shetye
May 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Indian Army, Air Force honour Covid-19 warriors at civil hospital in Ambala||AMBALA: A group of Indian Army and Air Force from Ambala Cantonment honoured the medical officers and some policemen deputed at the civil hospital in the city to boost the morale and confidence of Covid-19 warriors on Sunday morning. On Sunday at around 11 am, a group of Indian Army and Air Force soldiers visited the civil hospital, where they turn by turn honoured the medical fraternity with gifts for their contribution in the fight against the Covid-19. Principal medical officer at the city hospital Dr Poonam Jain said, “As the Indian Army soldiers today honoured the doctors fighting the battle against Covid-19, this has motivated the medical officers. This has pumped the energy into the medical fraternity and with such motivations, we will win this battle against the coronavirus.” Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “It is a matter of pride for us that the Indian Army that is nation’s pride has honoured the Covid-19 warriors. So far, we have been able to fight against the coronavirus and we are hopeful of defeating this contagious virus soon. We thanks the army for such a warm gesture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/indian-army-air-force-honour-covid-19-warriors-at-civil-hospital-in-ambala/articleshow/75524534.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Sangam dairy announced interim dividend for milk producers||GUNTUR: Keeping in view of the financial troubles of the milk producers, Sangam dairy, the leader of milk procurement and distribution in Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts, has decided to grant interim dividend to the farmers. Dairy board chaired by former legislator and chairman Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar met in Guntur on Sunday and decided to grant dividend. “Milk producers of Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts will be paid an additional amount of Rs 3 per litre for buffalo milk along with the regular price of Rs 620/kg fat and Rs 2 per litre for cow milk in addition to regular price of Rs 240/kg total solids along with the regular bill for a period of two months starting from 11 May. This translates into a total benefit of Rs 3.5 crores to the milk producers,” said Narendra Kumar. He said that dividend would help the farmers tide over the present crisis.  Similarly, the board had also decided to pay Chittoor district milk producers an additional amount of Rs. 2/litre for the total supplies during the month of April. An amount of Rs 73 lakh for Chittoor producers would be directly remitted into to the farmers’ bank accounts. Narendra said that they have taken all precautionary and safety measures in all milk societies and dairy right from the collection, chilling to distribution to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-sangam-dairy-announced-interim-dividend-for-milk-producers/articleshow/75524558.cms||Samdani MN
May 4, 2020||India||1 lakh tests a day by May-end planned: Govt||NEW DELHI: As the third phase of the national lockdown begins on Monday with relaxations, the government plans to step up its Covid-19 testing capacity to conduct one lakh tests per day each for rapid antibody (blood-based tests) and the more definitive RT-PCR by May-end. The supply of new rapid test kits would mean the government’s plan to use them, particularly in red zones as well as in low prevalence areas to track trends, will be back on track after an initial lot of Chinese kits failed to function properly. The kits have been embroiled in controversy with ICMR finding them to be unreliable, as they gave a wide variation in results. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news As partial movement starts within states and economic activities reboot outside containment zones, the government believes cases might rise, requiring preparedness in terms of laboratory capacity to diagnose those infected with coronavirus. A total of 10,46,450 samples were tested through RT-PCR till 9am on Sunday, while the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases was 39,980. Enhanced testing will be required for increased surveillance and to rule out wider spread. “We will continue to use rapid antibody tests for surveillance and epidemiological purposes. We have validated around eight to nine companies and orders have been placed with two of them. There is also a South Korean firm manufacturing these kits in Manesar. We are also exploring other sources to buy these antibody kits,” a senior official said. The government expects to receive over 10 lakh RT-PCR kits from both local and foreign manufacturers, whereas delivery of a similar number of rapid antibody kits from indigenous manufacturers — and an additional 3 lakh from a South Korean firm — are expected by next week, the official said. “Testing will be scaled up further. We are making efforts to increase the capacity footprint so that we are prepared to do one lakh of RT-PCR and one lakh of rapid antibody per day by May 31 and ramp it up further to half a million in another four to six weeks,” another senior official said. At present, an average of 75,000 RT-PCR tests is conducted in a day. However, rapid antibody tests have almost come to a standstill after kits from two Chinese company failed validation tests. Though some experts feel India is not doing adequate number of tests and several cases may remain undetected, the government and the ICMR have maintained that testing has to be driven by a protocol based on symptoms. The lack of any significant change in the positivity rate despite higher testing indicates the strategy is on the right track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1-lakh-tests-a-day-by-may-end-planned-govt/articleshow/75524587.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 4, 2020||India||Migrants can finally go home, but many can’t pay for train or bus||Migrant worker Ajay Tiwari was down to his last Rs 2,000 when the lockdown began 40 days ago. After being forced to shell out Rs 350 for a medical certificate — a mandatory requirement for anyone registering for permission to leave Maharashtra — the 32-year-old from MP's Rewa district is worried he will neither be able to subsist on the Rs 150 he has left nor pay for his trip back home. "Private doctors are charging Rs 400-500 for a medical certificate stating that someone doesn't have flu symptoms. We went in a group, so the cost came to Rs 350," said Tiwari, who wasn't paid his wages for March by his employer at Saki Naka in Andheri East. While Ajay is desperate to get back to his village, the reality of life without a livelihood has hit home for electrician Sundar Singh, who had returned to his native Almora district in Uttarakhand from Gurgaon three days before the lockdown started. "Seeing all those people walking hundreds of kilometres to return home, I had considered myself lucky. But I have had no income since and my savings are fast running out," he said. "Back in Gurgaon, I used to earn Rs 9,000 a month while my elder brother would send around Rs 15,000 home from Delhi." Ajay and Sundar represent the struggle on either side of the great Indian reverse migration that is unfolding across states. With migrant trains unlikely to run from the Covid-19 hotspots of Mumbai anytime soon, road journeys home are currently the only option. The rules specify that migrant workers have to pay for their trip home. They have to organise themselves into groups and apply to police or the collector before making travel arrangements. The first private bus that left from Mumbai for Jalor in Rajasthan on Sunday evening cost the travellers Rs 1 lakh. The 25 migrants on board paid Rs 4,000 each to cover a distance of 800km. Usually, the rate is Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500. Another private bus is set to leave for UP on Monday morning. The charges are Rs 8,000 per head, and the total cost of the bus is Rs 2 lakh. Most of those boarding the bus are small traders from Dharavi. Daily-wage workers with no earnings during the lockdown are the ones without any option — unless the government steps in. Mohammad Izhat from Jharkhand used to earn Rs 500 a day as a loader, but he has no money left. "I break my Ramzan fast with water. Only when NGOs distribute food or ration do we get something to eat. I cannot afford to go home," he said. He had considered walking home but gave up the idea. "My two children are just 5 and 8 years old. It would have been too much for them," he said. Three Shramik trains carrying 1,200 passengers departed on Sunday — one each from Vasai and Bhiwandi on the outskirts of the MMR region –– to Gorakhpur in UP. A third train left Nagpur for Lucknow at night with 927 passengers. An official said the Rajasthan and MP governments had written to Maharashtra, seeking to evacuate their migrant workforce. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that no migrant returning home by train would have to pay the fare. The Rajasthan government has sought 25-30 trains to bring back around 4 lakh migrants, while MP has sought the return of around 26,000 migrants from Amravati, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur. Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has written to CM Uddhav Thackeray, seeking financial support for all those travelling by Shramik trains. Amid all the adversities confronting migrant workers, many are being fleeced by people taking advantage of their desperation. A video clip that has gone viral on social media shows the owner of a medical store at Kadodara in Gujarat selling photocopies of registration forms to migrants for Rs 10 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-can-finally-go-home-but-many-cant-pay-for-train-or-bus/articleshow/75524628.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Shops of essential commodities to open for counter sale from 7am to 11am only: Ludhiana deputy commissioner||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Sunday clarified that as Ludhiana falls in the red zone, the shops selling essential commodities would open for counter sale from 7am to 11am only. He said that the shopkeepers would be allowed to do home delivery only after 11am. The deputy commissioner informed that a total of 3,078 samples have been taken in the district till date, out of which report of 2,385 samples has been received and 2,259 are negative. He informed that 111 cases of Ludhiana district and 15 from other districts (all undergoing treatment at Ludhiana) have been reported positive till date, the total number of active cases is 99 active as seven patients have been cured and unfortunately five have passed away. He informed that two deaths were reported in Ludhiana today, one patient was from Phagwara and another from Basti Jodhewal area of the city. Both were undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH). He informed that till date, five patients from district Ludhiana and 2 from other districts have passed away. He informed that in a good news, the wife of the deceased ACP Anil Kohli have been declared as cured by the health department as two of her consecutive reports have been negative. Agrawal informed that till now, 392 persons have come from other states and their testing is going on. He said that most of their reports have been received and some reports are pending and they would come by Sunday evening from labs at Patiala and PGIMER Chandigarh. He informed that as per the capacity, the health department has started sending samples for testing at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and in coming days, the results of reports could be received in comparatively lesser time. He informed that the contact tracing of all positive cases is going on in full swing and on an average more than 200 samples are collected and sent for testing from Ludhiana daily. He informed that as per the orders of Punjab government, the curfew/lockdown has been extended till May 17, 2020 and clarified that the timings all exemptions already given to residents such as opening of shops selling essential commodities from 7am to 11am would continue till May 17, 2020. He informed that they can do home delivery only from 11am to 7pm only. He informed that these shopkeepers would have to strictly ensure that all their workers wear masks, there is no rush of people, people should stand at 2 metre distance from each other. If the shopkeeper fails to ensure this, then their permission would be cancelled. He further clarified that people who want to visit those shops do not require any pass from 7am to 11am, but they can commute only by foot. He said that they would not be allowed to use any vehicle to get essential commodities and if any person is found doing so, strict action would be taken against them. He appealed to the shopkeepers to ensure that all guidelines and SOP issued by the Punjab government is strictly complied with. He also appealed to the residents that only one person goes out to buy essential commodities, they should wear masks, wash hands properly and also clean the items purchased from those shops. The deputy commissioner also clarified that the curfew passes of essential commodities and other important categories (which were valid till May 3, 2020) would automatically get valid till May 17, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shops-of-essential-commodities-to-open-for-counter-sale-from-7am-to-11am-only-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/articleshow/75524321.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man loses dad, ends up with Rs 16 lakh bill at private hospital||MUMBAI: Not only did a Santa Cruz resident lose his 74-year-old father to Covid-19-related complications, but he was also left with a bill of Rs 16 lakh for his father’s 15-day ICU stay in a city hospital. “I don’t think any middle-class person can afford treatment worth Rs 1 lakh per day. The bill has come as a huge shock to us,” said his son, who doesn’t want to be named. Manpreet Sohal, the director of Nanavati Hospital, Juhu, where the patient passed away on April 15, denied the family’s allegations of overcharging. “The patient was brought to us in a very critical condition with multiple co-morbidities and multi-organ failure on March 31. Despite best clinical measures, he passed away,” he added. With several families complaining of profiteering by private hospitals for Covid-related treatment, the state public health department last week issued a notification capping treatment charges for uninsured patients seeking treatment in private hospitals for both Covid and non-Covid ailments. The deceased patient’s son said the bulk of the charges – Rs 8.6 lakh – were for medicine and consumables, while another Rs 2.8 lakh were “Covid charges”. “The authorities have capped certain charges, but hospitals seem to be charging arbitrarily’’, he alleged. While his father was in hospital, the family was under quarantine and couldn’t leave their home. The man is angry he was not given any indication by the hospital about the expenses they would incur. “Communication with the hospital has been on phone and via email. I paid Rs 60,000 at the time of admission. A day later, I was informed that my father would have to put on dialysis and on ventilator. I gave consent electronically,” he said. He said a couple of days before admission his father’s blood test results showed his blood serum creatinine (an indirect measure of kidney function) was normal. “Thereafter, the bill kept rising. I paid Rs 3.4 lakh and a couple of days later I received a call from the accounts department informing me that if I did not pay, they would stop treatment,” he said. The hospital arranged to send his father’s body via ambulance to the crematorium, but he had to pay Rs 8,000 for the ambulance. Nanavati’s Sohal said the patient had undergone a heart surgery earlier. After being admitted, he developed acute respiratory failure and needed ventilator support. “He also needed high-end Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy for kidney failure for seven days,’’ he added. “The average bill of any patient with such complications and criticality would be Rs 1 lakh-plus per day in any hospital providing tertiary-care services. The bill amount is in line with standard charges for the duration and quality of clinical services extended to the patient,” Sohal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-loses-dad-ends-up-with-rs16l-bill-at-pvt-hosp/articleshow/75524714.cms||Clara Lewis
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Time to reopen Delhi, have to live with coronavirus: Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With Delhi’s economy in doldrums, revenue collection hitting rock bottom and almost no money to pay salaries to government staffers, CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said it was time to relax lockdown in the city. He requested the Centre to let the containment zones remain completely sealed and make the rest of the city — now fully a ‘red zone’ — a ‘green zone’ and allow markets to open from Monday. Addressing a digital press conference, the CM said people had lost their jobs and shops and industries were closed since the lockdown was imposed, thereby affecting the state’s economy. This, he added, couldn’t be endured for long. “When all economic activities are shut and revenue generation has stopped, how do we give salaries? How do we run the government?” Kejriwal said. Reasoning that the coronavirus was here to stay, he said, “We will have to adapt and prepare to live with corona. And Delhi is ready for it.” “You (the Centre) can make the opening of shops on odd-even basis. We hope if Delhi markets open, the economy will also open. Some cases of coronavirus will increase, but we are prepared to tackle them,” the CM said, adding that Delhi had enough number of PPE kits and proper arrangements at hospitals if there was a rise in the number of cases. No public transport, but you can take out your carFrom Monday, the Delhi government has allowed movement of people for all non-essential works between 7am and 7pm, besides opening of all private offices with 33% staff and let self-employed people such as domestic helps, sanitation workers, technicians, mechanics, plumbers and electricians to operate. Though the guidelines issued by the Centre says the resident welfare associations will decide if the maids are allowed in a residential colony, there was no such restriction imposed by the Delhi government, a senior official said. “If there are instances that the RWAs are not allowing despite residents wanting the maids to work, the government may intervene. Such disputes will be sorted at the ground level,” another government functionary said. While public transport, including Metro and buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws won’t ply, people can move around alone on two-wheelers and with two passengers in a car. All standalone shops and the ones located in the neighbourhood and residential complexes dealing in essential or non-essential commodities, including liquor — off-shops will remain open from 9am to 6.30pm — pan, gutkha and cigarettes, would also be allowed to function, the chief minister said. All factories in industrial areas with access control have also been permitted along with most commercial and private establishments including IT and IT-enabled services, data and call centres, warehouses, cold storage, private security and facility management services. Industrial units manufacturing IT hardware, packaging material apart from essential commodities will continue to function. The Delhi government has also allowed sub-registrar offices to function where people can go with prior appointments, apart from all government offices engaged in essential services with 100% staff and others with limited number of junior cadre officials and personnel. State officials said these relaxations were in accordance to the national guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Friday. With virtually no source of revenue generation, the Delhi government barely managed to collect about Rs 350crore in the month of April, which was just 10% of Rs 3500 crore collected in the first month of last fiscal. Reading out the list of relaxations the Centre has permitted in red zones (all 11 districts of Delhi have corona hotspots, hence in red zones), the chief minister accepted that there would be some increase in the number of Covic-19 positive cases and Delhi was prepared to deal with them. Kejriwal said that Delhi government had used the one-and-a-half month of lockdown period to strengthen its capacity to deal with the corona cases and the city was now all prepared if the lockdown was opened. He added that it was important to implement a complete lockdown in March to prevent the coronavirus from spreading as the country was not ready with health facilities, PPE kits and the understanding of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/time-to-reopen-delhi-have-to-live-with-coronavirus-kejriwal/articleshow/75524737.cms||Atul Mathur
May 4, 2020||World||Pompeo says 'significant' evidence new coronavirus emerged from Chinese lab||WASHINGTON: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday there was "a significant amount of evidence" that the new coronavirus emerged from a Chinese laboratory, but did not dispute US intelligence agencies' conclusion that it was not man-made. "There is a significant amount of evidence that this came from that laboratory in Wuhan," Pompeo told ABC's "This Week," referring to the virus that emerged late last year in China and has killed about 240,000 people around the world, including more than 67,000 in the United States. Pompeo then briefly contradicted a statement issued this week by the top US spy agency that said the virus did not appear to be man-made or genetically modified. That statement undercut conspiracy theories promoted by anti-China activists and some supporters of President Donald Trump who suggest it was developed in a Chinese government biological weapons laboratory. "The best experts so far seem to think it was man-made. I have no reason to disbelieve that at this point," Pompeo said. When the interviewer pointed out that was not the conclusion of U.S. intelligence agencies, Pompeo backtracked, saying, "I've seen what the intelligence community has said. I have no reason to believe that they've got it wrong." The US State Department did not immediately respond to a request for clarification on Pompeo's comments. Thursday's report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said it concurred with "the wide scientific consensus" that the disease was not man-made. US officials familiar with intelligence reporting and analysis have said for weeks that they do not believe Chinese scientists developed the coronavirus in a government biological weapons lab from which it then escaped. Rather, they have said they believe it was either introduced through human contact with wildlife at a meat market in the central city of Wuhan, or could have escaped from one of two Wuhan government laboratories believed to be conducting civilian research into possible biological hazards. Pompeo on Thursday said it was not known whether the virus came from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, a meat market, or somewhere else. Trump said the same day that he was confident it may have originated in a Chinese virology lab, but he declined to describe the evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-says-significant-evidence-new-coronavirus-emerged-from-chinese-lab/articleshow/75524731.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||His daughter’s father, ‘Col Courage’ melted for his men and his family||NEW DELHI/JAIPUR: Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, commanding officer (CO) of 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life while fighting terrorists at Changimulla in Handwara tehsil of Kupwara in north Kashmir, had “scalped” – as some soldiers would say -- an enviable number of the enemy’s head. It was 30 at last count. Back in the barracks, though, all that the ferocious officer could talk about with fellow soldiers in the unit was his seven-year-old daughter Tamanna. His universe revolved around the little girl. One of the last meetings with her took place at a pizza outlet in Jaipur. His final family photo shows Tamanna sitting on his lap, both her arms wrapped around the doting father’s neck. "That remained the display photograph on his phone every time we met,” said a senior Army officer in Kashmir. “He would share with us her requests for shopping, her love for sport shoes, the vacations she wanted to go on and the animation movies -- like Toy Story and Angry Birds – she was so excited about. And we would all laugh, saying, ‘But there are no movie halls here’. That’s what he talked to us about. Tamanna. Over phone with her, he would make endless promises.” The 45-year-old was equally mindful of his duties, rushing to encounter spots, making visits to villages, keeping as top priority the welfare of his soldiers. And every one who knew him mostly used one word to describe him – “gutsy”. He lived it, the WhatsApp status message on the phone reading: "Himmat ko parakhne ki gustakhi na karna, pehle bhi kuch toofano ka rukh mod chuka hoo (Don't dare test my courage, I have swept many storms aside)." On Sunday, his wife Pallavi Sharma told TOI, "He came to meet us on Holi, in March 2019. It was a surprise. That was him. The man of commitment and dedication and yet always eager to be with family. I do not want to hear that people are sorry about his death. He took a conscious decision to do his duty and I am extremely proud of him. He always took part in most operations and led from the front." Sharma, a recipient of the Sena Medal twice as a CO in Kashmir, was also known for his liveliness at soirees with his men. He would frequently ask those in the mess to collect the best of Kashmiri spices, often cooking a meal for them himself. "Our most poignant memory would of course be from the summer of 2019, when we danced to songs from Dabangg 3. In fact there is a photo from one of the gatherings that show him and Major Anuj Sood standing next to each other in their white shirts, smiling,” said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/his-daughters-father-col-courage-melted-for-his-men-and-his-family/articleshow/75524768.cms||Rohan Dua
May 4, 2020||India||Govt concerned about offensive social media posts in Gulf||NEW DELHI: The government remains concerned about attempts to disturb communal harmony in Gulf nations, particularly UAE where 3 more Indians have lost their jobs and are facing action from local authorities for their coronavirus-related "Islamophobic" utterances. Indian missions in the region have warned in the past few weeks against inflammatory posts on social media, citing PM Narendra Modi's tweet that Covid-19 doesn't recognise any religion, caste, creed or border. These developments though have not come in the way of India's cooperation with UAE in dealing with the virus. While India sent a team of medical professionals to UAE Saturday to help it fight the virus, the Gulf nation too despatched 7 tonnes of medical supplies to India. India is currently also working with the UAE government to implement its plan for evacuation of Indian nationals from the country. More than 50,000 people had registered for evacuation with the Indian consulate in Dubai alone until Friday. One of the main reasons for strong India-UAE ties has been the huge expatriate Indian population in UAE, according to UAE authorities. The 3.3 million-strong Indian expatriate community is said to account for more than 30 per cent of the national population and constitute UAE's largest expatriate group. It also accounts for a third of the remittances which India receives from GCC countries. UAE has a low threshold for intolerance though and the Indian government has been worried about the conduct of some expatriates in the past few weeks. Indian diplomats recall how India and UAE set up a digital museum in Abu Dhabi on the life and message of "love, tolerance & humanity" of Mahatma Gandhi and Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, former president and founding father of UAE. India's ambassador to UAE Pavan Kapoor had quote-tweeted Modi's tweet last month to remind Indian nationals that the 2 countries shared the value of non-discrimination on any grounds and that discrimination was against their moral fabric and rule of law. In many cases though, fake identities have also been created, as the Indian embassy in Qatar said in a statement, by forces inimical to India to create discord. One such fake handle impersonated the princess of Oman to which she issued a clarification later. According to Gulf News, 3 fresh cases were reported over the weekend of Indian nationals posting offensive comments on social media. One of the accused is a chef with a high-end Italian restaurant. It said that all 3 had been fired, or suspended, and handed over to local authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-concerned-about-offensive-social-media-posts-in-gulf/articleshow/75524772.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: Lockdown delayed peak by a month to June-end, study says||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 infection may peak in late June nationally, a study by the Kolkata-based Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (IACS) showed. It also says that the peak itself could be halved with increased testing and stringent lockdowns in targeted zones. The study also suggests that the lockdown has successfully delayed the peak by a month, giving us more time to deal with treatment logistics. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updatesThe “bio-computational modelling” study aims to predict progress of Covid-19 in India and assess the impact of the lockdown by modifying infection rates and obtaining best- and worst-case scenarios. Going by the trend of the model’s curve and effective reproduction number (2.2), over 1.5 lakh would be infected at the peak, which could occur in late-June. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The effective reproduction number denotes how many people a Covid-19 positive person is currently infecting, on average. The number 2.2 means that 220 people are infected by 100 people. But the model has a silver lining — with appropriate measures (like effective testing and better lockdown management), the number of infections may be brought down to 0.7 lakh by end-June, even if the reproduction number remains the same. Santanu Bhattacharya, director of IACS, said a team of the association’s scientists led by Raja Paul and co-workers from its School of Mathematical & Computational Sciences conducted a comprehensive study — using the Susceptible-Infected-Recovery-Death (SIRD) model — to predict the progress of Covid-19 in India. SIRD is a simplified approach that considers parameters like number of people susceptible, infected, recovered and dead, and the effective reproduction number for computation, and then compares it with two other large democratic countries — Germany and the US — in the relevant time frame (January to April 2020). The model predicts that the peak would have appeared in end-May in the absence of a lockdown. Were the lockdown completely lifted after May 3, the rate of infection would rise again at a faster rate, the model shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-delayed-peak-by-a-month-to-june-end-study/articleshow/75524778.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 4, 2020||Business||Cash flows for companies dry up due to lockdown||MUMBAI: Cash flows, the lifeline of businesses, are drying up fast. An extended lockdown has left companies — micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs) in particular — staring at a bleak future. Some companies are struggling to pay salaries to employees, while some are looking at winding up operations rather than continue with an unprofitable enterprise. Companies use working capital for their day-to-day expenses. When finished products are sold, they get income. While the fixed expenses — such as salaries to employees — have remained constant even during the lockdown, there’s been no income or cash that has come for a non-essential manufacturer or service provider. DPK Engineers CMD S Sampathraman said, “Cash flow is to a business what blood is to the human body. When there’s no blood circulation for a few minutes, we would die. My cash flows will run dry in a week.” DPK Engineers, which posted a turnover of around Rs 170 crore in 2018-19, is into diesel generators. Several MSMEs are facing a tough time in drawing working capital from banks. “My banker said 10-12 days ago that he would lend 20% extra over and above the existing lending limit to alleviate the Covid-19 lockdown problems. A couple of days ago, he said the extra limit has been slashed to 10%. Eligibility criteria continue to be surplus of assets over liabilities, sufficient stocks and debtors (with margins of 25% and 30%, respectively) to avail the 10% extra credit. These criteria are impractical when there has been zero business in the 40 days of lockdown,” said Sampathraman. In large companies, there’s greater debt, but they also have more assets to pledge/sell and seek extra funds. Those with stronger balance sheets have sufficient cash to sustain their operations for a longer period. Reliance Industries, the country’s most valued company, had a debt of Rs 3.36 lakh crore as of March 2020, while its cash and cash equivalents stood at Rs 1.61 lakh crore. Companies like TCS, which has zero debt and strong cash flows, are better placed to tide over the challenging business environment. TCS’s cash flow from operations stood at Rs 32,303 crore in fiscal 2020. Employee costs, the highest expense of the company, comprised 42% (Rs 65,642 crore) of its revenue. TCS is the largest employer of coders in the country with 4.5 lakh people. On the other hand, Hindustan Unilever’s cash position as on March 31, 2020, is Rs 9,770 crore. Kotak Securities EVP Rusmik Oza said, “The lockdown and uncertainty of when things will get back to normalcy have brought cash flows back into focus. Companies having higher ebitda (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) margins, less/no debt and decent cash in their balance sheets will be able to weather this phase in a better manner. From an operations perspective, companies generating healthy operating cash flows are better placed in these times when revenue is impacted but certain fixed costs still need to be incurred.” Unlike large enterprises, several MSMEs are in dire straits. “It’s practically a winding-up situation for 60% of them,” said Sampathraman. Solkar Solar Industry CMD K E Raghunathan is considering shutting operations altogether. “We do not have any cash. Period. I am planning to wind up my operations because I am pushed to the wall. At one point the pilot has to eject. I will no longer be able to run the company profitably,” said Raghunathan. “But I will ensure all my dependents are taken care of,” said Raghunathan, who has been an entrepreneur for over three decades and started Solkar Solar Industries in 1984. “One major commitment I have is salary, which I do not know how to pay. There’s a lot of pressure on MSMEs to reduce their drawing power (cash from banks). According to my understanding, 70% of MSMEs will not be able to pay salaries this month,” said Raghunathan. Companies which have better working capital cycles are less strained in such times. Traditionally, sectors like FMCG, IT, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, two-wheelers and gas, which have better cash flows and lesser Capex requirements, will be less impacted in the near term. On the other hand, sectors that are highly capital-intensive and have high fixed costs will find it difficult to manage this difficult phase of Covid-19. “Sectors that could face cash flow problems in the very near term are aviation, smaller NBFCs, capital goods, construction, hotels, infrastructure, metals, real estate and textiles,” said Oza of Kotak Securities. Sampathraman said the government should spend $500 billion on doles to poor, protection of livelihood of employee and short-maturity infrastructure projects with enormous rural employment opportunities, like registering and promoting ‘Geographical Indications’ for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-dries-up-cos-cash-flows/articleshow/75524170.cms||Namrata Singh
May 4, 2020||Patna||Financial constraints: Vaishali couple commits suicide||PATNA: Fed up with financial constraints, a young couple allegedly committed suicide by setting themselves on fire at a village in Vaishali district on Sunday. The two often quarrelled over non-payment of loan taken against a commercial vehicle. Police said that Suman Devi (32, set herself on fire in a fit of rage at her Maricha Ram residence under the Sarai police station area in Vaishali district. Her husband Ramesh Sah (35), also received serious burn injuries in the process to rescue his wife, who had suffered over 90% burn injuries in the incident. Sah reportedly hanged himself to death from a nearby tree after he came to know that his wife was dead. The incident happened when the couple’s two minor children—Prince Kumar (10) and Sunny Kumar (7) were present in their house. Though the children raised an alarm and some neighbours rushed to the site, it was too late. The couple had died by then. Sarai police station SHO Sunita Kumari said that Suman had taken Rs.5 lakh as loan from a local committee comprising women for hiring a truck for their livelihood. She used to repay the instalment to the committee with the income from the truck. However, the problem compounded for the couple following the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24. The amount of loan accumulated as plying of vehicles was stopped. On the other hand, the lenders started pressurisinng her for early payment of the loan amount. “The non-payment of loan led to dispute between the husband and the wife. They took the extreme step to end their life apparently under duress due to financial constraints,” the SHO said adding that the couple's bodies were sent to the sadar hospital at Hajipur for postmortem. The SHO said that the police have not received any complaint against the couple. Further investigation is on. Earlier, a youth attempted to commit suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his rented accommodation under Dalmianagar police outpost in Rohtas district after he failed to provide medical assistance to his pregnant wife. Some local residents later came forward to help the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-couple-commits-suicide/articleshow/75522387.cms||Ramashankar
May 4, 2020||Surat||46 more Covid patients discharged in Surat||Surat: As many as 46 Covid-19 patients were discharged - 40 from Samras Hostel quarantine and six from New Civil Hospital (NCH) - on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the city to 196.The city also registered 19 new positive cases and two deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 30.Bhikhu Multani, 62, a resident of Padmanagar in Maan Darwaja, who was tested positive for Covid-19 was admitted in the New Civil Hospital on May 1. The deceased who also has co-morbid conditions including diabetes and kidney disease, passed away late on Saturday night.The other casualty is Sairabanu Pathan, 45, a resident of Ambanagar in Limbayat, who succumbed to the infection on Sunday. The patient who also suffered from diabetes was admitted in the NCH after being detected with Covid-19 on Saturday. On the other hand, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said that the city recorded about 19 new positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 657 in the city. Majority of the cases were detected from Limbayat, Udhana and Varachha zones, respectively.“We are focusing on Limbayat as the highest number of cases are being reported from this zone. Till now, out of the total 657 cases in the city, 260 have been reported from Limbayat alone. Total 149 surveillance teams have been fielded in Limbayat and from Monday, 100 more teams will be deployed in this zone to find out more such cases,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner.Urging people again to stay at their homes for their own safety, Pani clarified that the no shops will be allowed to open except essential items only. “The entire city and Surat district is under red zone category and people should take note of it,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/46-more-covid-patients-discharged-in-surat/articleshow/75523721.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Varanasi||IAF chopper showers flower petals on corona warriors||Varanasi: As a part of the countrywide flypast carried out by the Indian Air Force on Sunday to show gratitude to the thousands of healthcare workers battling the coronavirus pandemic, one of its choppers showered flower petals on four hospitals in Varanasi. The flypast in Varanasi, an effort by the country’s armed forces to honour doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff, police and other frontline workers battling the virus, not only proved to be a morale booster for the Corona warriors but also made them emotional. The IAF chopper carrying 400 kg rose petals left LBS International Airport at 10am. It showered petals at ESI and neighbouring DDU district hospitals, where doctors, paramedics and supporting crew stood in lawns and responded to the gesture of the armed force by waving hands. Similar scene was evident on the campus of SSL hospital and super speciality wing of BHU when the chopper reached there to shower flowers. Doctors, paramedics and the supporting staff said it was a historical and unforgettable moment for them and added that that they had never imagined such an honour for them. Not only these corona warriors but even the city residents climbed up to the roofs of their houses and recorded the memorable moments in their mobiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iaf-chopper-showers-flower-petals-on-corona-warriors/articleshow/75522697.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||5 more in Surat district test +ve||Meanwhile, five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in different districts of Surat on Sunday. According to health officials, two cases each were reported from Olpad and Choryasi talukas and one from Mandvi taluka. In Valsad, Ashok Mangela, a resident of Daheri village of Umargam taluka, was discharged from the Covid-19 hospital in Vapi town on Sunday after he recovered. In Dang, the first Covid-19 patient was on verge of recovery. Preeti Kunvar's two tests came negative she was set to be discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/5-more-in-surat-district-test-ve/articleshow/75523897.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||Social distancing rules go for toss in inter-state travel permits||Surat: Sixty five people in truck, 70 in a private bus and nine in an SUV! These numbers mentioned on the inter-state transit passes issued to migrants reveal how social distancing norms were given a burial by the Surat district administration. TOI possesses the copies of these passes issued various sub-divisional magistrate offices at Mandvi and Kamrej. A special desk at Damdod checkpost with a staff of 24 was set up to issue transit permissions. Permission was granted to eight people to travel from Surat to Sikar in Rajasthan by Innova while nine were allowed to go in a Tavera. In another case, 70 people stuffed in a private bus was also given permit to travel from Surat to Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district on May 1. As per the rules, buses permitted to carry only 50% of the total seating capacity while in cars, three persons including a driver are permitted. The desk at Damdod checkpost has issued over 6,600 permissions in the last three days. When contacted, VN Rabari, in-charge SDM, Mandvi, told TOI: "There was a long queue of those wanting permits and the process was extremely time consuming. It’s possible that due to heavy rush of labourers, some numbers of permitted travellers may have been mentioned incorrectly by mistake.” Rabari insisted that all norms were followed and travellers were also screened. “Those having temperature were not allowed to board the bus or private vehicle. We also told people travelling in car that only four people including a driver will be allowed,'' he added said. Sources said that more than 40000 people rushed to checkpost on learning that inter-state passes were being issued. "Such chaotic situation was reported from all the check-posts in Gujarat and therefore government cancelled this system,'' said another district administration officer. However, majority of the buses and cars bound to UP were stopped near Vadodara and told to return to Surat. 1,300 KM CYCLE ADVENTURE Surat: Such as the desperation of these 11 migrants to return to their natives that they set off on a 1,300 km long road journey from Surat to Prayagraj. The casual labourers left for Prayagraj in UP on 11 bicycles three days ago after getting the inter-state pass. "But our luck ran out as we were not allowed to travel from Vadodara. Police told us that UP government has not allowed the entry from outside state,” Nandan Singh, who was on way back to Surat on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/social-distancing-rules-go-for-toss-in-inter-state-travel-permits/articleshow/75523777.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Business||E-comm deliveries may start slow as about 40% sellers are in red zones||Bengaluru: Even as states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Gujarat and Karnataka start implementing the Central government’s guidelines on lockdown extension till May 17, e-commerce operations may not change drastically due to challenges in large cities that are marked as red zones. While e-tailers like Amazon and Flipkart have welcomed the government’s move to allow delivery of non-essentials in orange and green zones Monday onwards, industry sources said at least 40% of sellers and warehouses are located in the red zone. This will present on-ground challenges for e-commerce companies. On Sunday evening, Flipkart told sellers in a note that it will start making all products live gradually based on zones they are in. It also said the situation on the ground is dynamic and orders can be cancelled or returned if areas in orange or green zones move to red. A seller who deals with both Amazon and Flipkart, said he did not expect a significant change in operations in the next two weeks. Industry sources added that relatively more products would be available online next week, compared to the start of the lockdown, but a significant resumption of e-commerce operations might only happen closer to May 17 or after.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-comm-deliveries-may-start-slow-as-about-40-sellers-are-in-red-zones/articleshow/75524239.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||About 3,600 Odia people leave city in three trains||Surat: For the second consecutive day on Sunday, 3,600 Odia migrants left the city for Jagganthpur station on the outskirts of Berhampur in Odisha in three shramik special trains. Sources said the first train left Surat with about 1,200 Odia workers at about 10am and the other passengers in two trains at 1pm and 4.30pm. Two special trains carrying over 2,300 migrant workers had left the city for Odisha and Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Railway officials informed that five more shramik special trains will run on Monday, three to Odisha and one each to Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Patna in Bihar. Each train will ferry about 1,200 passengers. Railway officials said medical screening of Odia passengers was carried out at the entrance of the railway station. The passengers boarded the trains wearing masks and maintained social distancing norms. CR Garuda, area railway manager, said, “Shramik special trains are non-stop trains with about six emergency halts for change of duty personnel. At all the six stations on the route from Surat to Jagganthpur station, no other passengers will be allowed to board the trains. Five more trains will run on Monday for Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/about-3600-odia-people-leave-city-in-three-trains/articleshow/75523697.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Bring back T migrants from Gulf||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress’ Covid-19 task force committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy has asked chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to make arrangements to safely bring back lakhs of Telangana migrant workers in the Gulf countries. Of 85 lakh Indians working in the Gulf countries, about 15 lakh belong to Telangana. Most of these migrant workers, living and working under harsh conditions, were sending Rs 6,500 crore to the state as remittances annually. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bring-back-t-migrants-from-gulf/articleshow/75524249.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Patna||Doctors, paramedics elated over gesture of gratitude||PATNA: Doctors and paramedical staff in the state capital felt elated on Sunday when the Mi-17 chopper of Indian Air Force (IAF) showered flowers and petals over AIIMS-Patna and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) as a part of the nationwide flypasts to salute thousands of them engaged in fighting Covid-19 across the state. Covid patients are admitted to these two hospitals in state for treatment. A formation of three IAF Su-30 MKI fighter jets also conducted a flypast over state assembly building at 11.37am after which they made a loop and straight away flew westward by gaining altitude. Defence ministry PRO Gargi Sinha told TOI over phone that flypast by jets was also a part of the nationwide event for honouring medical fraternity fighting against the invisible threat of Covid-19. Several doctors and support staff at AIIMS-Patna stood outside the OPD building and on the terrace of IPD building to enjoy the moment of glory. Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment on the sixth floor of the IPD building at AIIMS-P. The Mi-17 flew low over IPD building while showering flowers and petals on doctors and paramedics, who had a moment to cheer and smile amid stress of duty amid the pandemic. NMCH doctors and staff had also gathered on the hospital premises while maintaining social distance and cheering the shower of flowers and petals. Several of them clapped and waved to the chopper while it flew past. Some of them even filmed the event in their cellphones. AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar said the doctors had never seen such an event for themselves. “It felt great. It’s a respect paid to the warriors by the warriors,” he said. AIIMS-Patna medical superintendent Dr CM Singh termed the event unprecedented. He said it was a praiseworthy step by the armed forces for doctors who were working day and night in the present scenario. “We thank our armed forces for the time they took out for the doctors,” he added. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said one chopper was involved in showering flowers and petals in Patna. “Details were sought from us for the Sunday’s event after which names of the two hospitals were forwarded to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-paramedics-elated-over-gesture-of-gratitude/articleshow/75522507.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 4, 2020||Surat||Valsad cop booked for dropping his, colleague’s families to Mehsana||Surat: A police constable in Valsad city police station was booked on Sunday after it came to light that he had gone to drop his and his colleague’s families to Meshana by violating lockdown orders.His colleague’s wife and son later tested positive. Constable Jaydeep Chavda (31) had gone to drop his family living in Gandhinagar district and his colleague Narendra Rathod’s wife and son in Mehsana district on April 30. The facts, however, came to light only Saturday after Rathod’s wife Mittal and son Raviraj, tested positive, said a senior Valsad police officer.An offence was registered against him in Valsad city police station by L R Makwana, police sub inspector.Investigation so far revealed that Chavda went to drop his wife Julie and son Nakshraj to their native village Veda in Kalol of Gandhinagar district. He also took along Mittal and Raviraj whom he dropped at Sudasna village of Satlasna taluka. After dropping them, Chavda returned to Valsad the same day.Meanwhile, health check-up of Mittal and Raviraj was done in Mehsana as they had come from outstation and both were found to be infected.Samples of Chavda and Rathod too were collected in Valsad for testing. But both cops tested negative on Sunday. Those who had come in contact with Rathod's family have been put under quarantine in Aatgam of Valsad. “Chavda is yet to get arrested since he was quarantined immediately when the offence was registered. Departmental actions will follow the legal actions against the errant cops,” said Sunil Joshi, superintendent of police, Valsad.“Rathod’s wife and son are asymptomatic and had no complaints related to coronavirus infection. It is not yet clear from where they got infected,” said a police officer.Rathod was posted in Dungri police station. Earlier Yash Patel, 22, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawan posted in Dungri police station limits was found Covid-19 positive. Patel was discharged on Saturday after his third test turned out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-cop-booked-for-dropping-his-colleagues-families-to-mehsana/articleshow/75523802.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Patna||12 trains set to bring 13,000 stranded people of Bihar||PATNA: At least 12 more ‘Shramik Special’ trains carrying migrant workers, students and other stranded people are scheduled to reach various cities in the state by Tuesday. While 10 trains left for the state on Sunday from various places in the country, two trains had departed on Saturday. Three trains carrying stranded students from Bihar left Kota in Rajashthan on Sunday. Five trains, including those from Kota, will reach the state on Monday and the rest of the seven trains on Tuesday. The first such train from Jaipur had reached Danapur on Saturday. More than 13,200 migrant workers, students and other stranded people who had been authorised by state government to travel, are likely to reach Bihar in 12 trains. East Central Railway (ECR) CPRO Rajesh Kumar said the three special trains originating from Kota would reach Gaya and Barauni. “The train for Gaya departed from Kota at 9pm on Sunday and it will arrive at its destination at 12.30pm on Monday,” he said. “Another train from Kota departed at 11am on Sunday and it will reach Barauni at 5.30am on Monday. One more train from Kota will reach Barauni at 9.30am on Monday,” he said. Kumar said two trains would reach Danapur from Bengaluru at 11.30am and 5.30pm, respectively, on Tuesday. The CPRO said two trains started from Ernakulam at 3pm and 8pm on Sunday and carrying stranded migrant workers. These trains will reach Barauni and Muzaffarpur at 11.45am and 5pm, respectively, on Tuesday. “Special trains from Thrissur and Kunnur will reach Darbhanga and Saharsa at 2pm and 7pm, respectively, on Tuesday,” the CPRO said, adding one train from Kozhikode started at 5.30pm on Sunday and reach Katihar at 3pm on Tuesday. He said two trains had already started from Ernakulam and Tirur on Saturday and they would reach Danapur at 3pm and 3.30pm on Monday. “At least 1,150 to 1,250 passengers will be accommodated in each train. Free food is provided to passengers travelling in special trains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-trains-set-to-bring-13k-stranded-people/articleshow/75522536.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Give students’ data or face action, DEOs told||PATNA: The state education department has issued show-cause notices to district education officers (DEOs) for not uploading the data of students of secondary and higher secondary government schools to Medhasoft, a software developed by NIC. According to education department, the DEOs were earlier asked to upload the data of students of classes IX to XI, who achieved 75% attendance in 2019-20 academic session, to Medhasoft. However, data of students from 7,716 secondary and higher secondary schools in the state have not been uploaded yet. Director of secondary education Giriwar Dayal Singh said the department is unable to disburse the funds to students studying in 7,716 schools due to lack of data. The funds are for several state-run schemes like scholarship for girls, Kanya Uthan Yojana, Cycle Yojana and Poshak Yojana. Only students who have achieved 75% attendance will get financial assistance under these schemes. “In 2019 Matriculation examination conducted by Bihar School Examination Board, around 3,62,413 girls passed. Of them, 3,31,530 candidates’ data, including bank account number, marital status and Aadhaar card number are available on the software. The data of 30,883 students are missing,” Singh said. He added, “We have already provided financial assistance to 3,31,530 girls, who have received Rs 10,000 each under the scholarship scheme for higher studies.” The DEOs have been asked to explain the reason for their failure to submit the data of students. “If the DEOs fail to come up with proper relies, they will face departmental action,” Singh adde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/give-students-data-or-face-action-deos-told/articleshow/75522425.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 4, 2020||Patna||Covid cases double, drones deployed in West Champaran||BETTIAH: Five days after its maiden Covid-19 positive five cases in Jogapatti block on Wednesday last, this containment zone in West Champaran district threw up further alarm with five new cases on Sunday. With this, the number of Covid cases in the district has doubled to ten. DM Kundan Kumar said the new cases were among those in close contact with the first five cases detected earlier. They were all migrant workers who had recently returned from Delhi. “Among the fresh five cases, there are two women (aged 36 and 17) and three men (aged 41, 22 and 18),” Kumar said. “The area has been cordoned off since the initial detection of the Covid cases last week ... no one is allowed either to go in or come out ... We are maintaining surveillance by drones,” the DM said. After the confirmation of the first five cases, over 50 people were quarantined in the Pakrihar middle school. The district administration, meanwhile, has kept strict vigil on the containment zone with a nodal magistrate and police officer each on round-the-clock duty. “The containment zone has been divided into sectors ... every cluster of 50 houses form one sector ... all roads are blocked and officers ensure that citizens remain indoors,” he said and added, “We have ensured home delivery of essential items in the containment zone.” Over the past three days, authorities collected 51 samples from the close community of the migrants found corona positive last Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-double-dronesdeployed-in-w-champaran/articleshow/75522451.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 4, 2020||Business||PE/VC sees 65% YoY drop in April 2020||Chennai: In an indication of tightening purse strings, private equity and venture capital funding dropped 65% YoY, by value, in April 2020, at $931 million from $2.7 billion a year ago. VC funding alone stood at $487 million, a YoY drop from $614 million The investments were made across 67 deals at a drop from 91 deals in the same period, the previous year. Cautious investors are placing their bets on sectors that currently have assured returns. Most of the investment went to fintech, edtech, healthtech and e-commerce. Top deals include investment in SP Infra, DMI Finance from private equity players, while VCs placed their bets on e-grocery delivery and healthtech firms BigBasket, MedGenome respectively, which saw a jump in business during the Covid-led lockdown. Edtech companies such as Byjus and Vedantu also saw money being pooled in. Another clear trend emerging is bridge rounds: portfolio companies raking in funds from existing investors. BigBasket saw $60 million being pooled in from Alibaba and beer brand Bira brought in $30 million from existing investor Sequoia. Other bridge rounds include BankBazaar securing money from Amazon. The funding numbers also show a month-on-month decline in investor interest. The total investment made is also lower than March 2020 numbers, which saw $1 billion being spent by VC and PEs. Funding in familiar sectors also saw a jump. Arun Natarajan, MD, Venture Intelligence said that the numbers indicate that these deals are in existing late-stage startups in a bridge round. “This is just fulfilling a previous commitment by investors. The whole investment process takes over 3 months and investors are cutting cheques for older deals. The investments would further decline in May and we may also see some investors going back on their deals,” said Natarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe/vc-sees-65-yoy-drop-in-april-2020/articleshow/75524124.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 4, 2020||Surat||History-sheeter cuts cake, lockdown rule with same sword||Surat: A history sheeter celebrated his birthday hoodwinking lockdown and social distancing rules on Friday. If that was not all, he also cut his cake with a sword, said Amroli police, who arrested 15 persons on Saturday.They accused have been charged of violating lockdown rules in the celebration as well as for the other separate offence of allegedly using a sword to cut the cake. The incident came to light only after video and photos of the cake-cutting ceremony using the sword went viral on social media. Police were caught unawares about the birthday party of the history sheeter who operates a gang of criminals and has been arrested multiple times in the past for offences like murder and extortion. Police arrested Amit Rajput alias Lalu Jhalim and 14 others for the alleged celebrations and for violating orders issued under public notification and negligent act that can spread disease. In another offence the accused and his associates were arrested for use of sword under Arms Act. “Police have taken strict actions against the accused soon after it came to police’s knowledge. We are investigating as to how they could gather at one place,” said Prashant Sumbe, in-charge deputy commissioner of police, zone IV. Soon after the party, a video went viral on social media the same day, but police remained ignorant of it till the time it was highlighted by a section of media. Ironically, city police conducted a vehicle checking drive in Amroli area at two spots and checked each vehicle on both ends of Amroli Bridge. Amid that, Rajput could reach the spot of his birthday party celebration behind Gandhari Ashram on Tapi river bank without any hassle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/history-sheeter-cuts-cake-lockdown-rule-with-same-sword/articleshow/75523791.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Business||JioMart ramps up ops with credit, incentives||BENGALURU: At a time when the lockdown has made groceries one of the few major avenues of consumer spending, Reliance’s JioMart is ramping up operations, intensifying the grocery wars through its kirana commerce pilots with messaging application WhatsApp, which has over 400 million active users in India. Since the rollout of ordering via WhatsApp, JioMart has doubled weekly credit limit and has allocated one executive each for kirana stores to manage orders and inventory, 90% of which is sourced through the Reliance Retail network. Multiple kirana stores in Navi Mumbai TOI spoke to said JioMart’s executives are now managing the store floor virtually through phone calls when it comes to inventory and order flow, which is gradually increasing at standalone store level. Most deliveries are done by JioMart but in some cases, kiranas have done them on their own or customers have picked up packed items due to lockdown constraints. “The plan is they (JioMart) will take care of deliveries completely. This will be smoother, once the lockdown is lifted,” said Prakash (surname withheld), whose store has started getting orders through WhatsApp from JioMart. He said orders have doubled, from 5-10, since JioMart launched the WhatsApp service, albeit on a small scale. Incentives are being offered to customers on bulk purchases, which are funded by JioMart. This gets credited back to the kiranas when they make their next bulk purchase. Reliance Retail’s private brands, such as Good Life, as well as loose grains, are being supplied to these kiranas, which are being offered discounts by JioMart on purchase of select staples in bulk. This comes at a time when consumers are largely cutting back on discretionary spending but are stocking up on groceries and other essential items. Online grocers like Bigbasket and Grofers, besides horizontal e-commerce platforms like Amazon India and Flipkart, have been seeing a steady spike in new orders in the category since the lockdown began. With the government allowing offline standalone shops to open, JioMart could see more consumers trying it out. Emailed queries sent to Reliance did not elicit a response till the time going to press. “Since the lockdown, they are checking my orders daily on the phone. my order volume has increased so our credit limit was recently doubled to Rs 60,000. Reliance’s people come, pick up and deliver. Then they settle the payments with us. The supplies are managed by them and they bring it to my store, which saves me logistics cost and time,” said Kiran Prajapati, who also runs a kirana store in Navi Mumbai. This translates to slightly better margins, even when buying products at the same cost. He has been on JioMart network since Diwali in October last year. Kirana stores said JioMart has also installed point-of-sale (PoS) machines in these stores, taking a deposit of Rs 3,000-3,500. Kiranas said this would see a wider play to manage orders, payments in the JioMart ecosystem, once order volumes are higher with the economy opening up gradually. Prajapati said he has to forward order requests to nearby stores when he can’t service them all. “My own customers also come to the shop to buy. So, I forward some to nearby stores and JioMart’s delivery team manages the rest,” he added. The fill-rate (number of products procured out of total items in an order) for Jio Mart is 80-90% currently, which would be enhanced as the supply chain gets better by May 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-ramps-up-ops-with-credit-incentives/articleshow/75524227.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 4, 2020||Patna||Home survey: 5.76 crore people screened for Covid-19 in Bihar||PATNA: Health workers have covered 1.05 crore households and 5.76 crore people in the state in two weeks as part of the government’s door-to-door drive to screen people for Covid-19. The survey has so far identified 3,420 people with Covid-19 symptoms, such as fever, dry cough and difficulty in breathing. Of these 3,420 people, 2,998 people have no travel history, 37 returned from foreign countries and 385 came from other states. The door-to-door screening of people had started in the state on April 16. Initially, the worst-affected districts like Siwan, Nawada, Begusarai and Nalanda were included. However, the state government later extended the exercise to all 38 districts. Principal secretary of state’s health department Sanjay Kumar on Sunday said the health teams covered 1.08 crore people and 19.6 lakh households on May 2 alone. “Door-to-door screening in four districts – Siwan, Nawada, Begusarai and Nalanda – had completed on Saturday. People in the remaining 34 districts, including Patna, are being screened,” he said. The samples of asymptomatic people who came in contact with those having symptoms of the virus have been sent for test, a senior the health official said. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said 300 samples collected from symptomatic patients during the door-to-door survey were tested negative. “The health teams covered 5.83 lakh households and screened 35 lakh people in the district. Apart from active surveillance in five containment zones in the district, we are also keeping an eye on those retuning from other states,” he said. Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Ram Singh said of 2,749 samples collected for test in door-to-door drive, 2,697 were found negative, 36 positive and reports of 16 samples are pending. “We covered 5.81 lakh households and 29.3 lakh people in two phases,” the DM said. In Patna district, around 6 lakh households and 29 lakh people have so far been screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-survey-5-76-crore-people-screened-in-state/articleshow/75522523.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 4, 2020||Patna||'Rs 187.80 crore transferred to 18.78 lakh migrant workers of Bihar’||PATNA: Altogether 18.78 lakh migrant workers of Bihar stranded in other states have so far been provided financial assistance under the Mukhya Mantri Vishesh Sahayata Yojana (MMVSY). An amount of Rs 1,000 is transferred directly in the bank accounts of those migrant workers who apply online for assistance under the scheme. “An amount of Rs1,000 each was transferred in the bank accounts of 18.78 lakh migrant people by the disaster management department (DMD) after verification of their applications,” state information and public relations department (IPRD) secretary Anupam Kumar said on Sunday. Thus, a total amount of Rs187.80 crore has so far been transferred in the bank accounts of 18.78 lakh applicants under the scheme, he said. As per data provided by the IPRD, maximum 1.43 lakh migrant workers from Madhubani district, followed by 1.21 lakh from Saran have so far been provided assistance of Rs1,000 each under the scheme. More than 1.13 lakh migrant workers who originally hail from Muzaffarpur district and 1.03 lakh from East Champaran district were also provided financial assistance under the scheme. Minimum number of beneficiaries hailed from smaller districts like Sheikhpura, Lakhisarai and Arwal. Only 11,106 stranded migrant workers from Sheikhpura district got assistance under the scheme, followed by Lakhisarai (11,506) and Arwal (11,972). As per the data of the total beneficiaries, maximum 3.77 lakh migrant workers were stranded in NCR of Delhi, followed by 2.39 lakh in Haryana and 2.08 lakh in Maharashtra. The MMVSY, meant to ease difficulty of migrant workers during the lockdown, was launched on April 6 this year by chief minister Nitish Kumar with transfer of Rs 10.35 crore in the bank accounts of more than 1.03 lakh stranded workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-187-80-crore-transferred-to-18-78l-migrant-workers/articleshow/75522801.cms||Madan Kumar
May 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Migrants quarantined in their home districts||PATNA: The 1,174 migrant workers who reached the state from Rajasthan in a special train on Saturday have been quarantined in their respective blocks. They are being provided food and other necessary items by the district administration concerned. Officials of the districts concerned are taking all possible measures to ensure that the migrant workers do not escape from the quarantine centres. Dr Ragini Mishra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the state, said the doctors would conduct health check-up of these migrant workers every day during their quarantine period. “There are chances that those asymptomatic now might develop symptoms later on. Hence, daily health check-up of these people is necessary,” she said. Mishra said all returnee migrant workers are being kept in quarantine centres run by the disaster management and health departments. “Food and other necessary items are being provided to these workers,” she added. She said there is enough space at 302 quarantine centres to accommodate thousands of migrant workers and students reaching the state from different parts of the country. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said police personnel have been deployed at borders to receive migrant workers and others reaching Bihar from different states. “DMs and SPs have been asked to deploy smart officers to handle these people as they are already a frustrated lot following the lockdown and resultant hassles,” Pandey said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said security has been tightened at state and district borders, quarantine centres and railway stations in view of arrival of migrant workers and students. “Magistrates and officers who will take them back to their respective districts in buses have been asked to follow protocols,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-quarantined-in-their-home-districts/articleshow/75522552.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 4, 2020||Surat||In migrants’ adversity, some grasp opportunity to mint money||Surat: The plight of migrants, who have been forced to return to Surat from Gujarat borders, left several greedy people unmoved.Taking advantage of the workers’ desperation to return to their natives, some grocery and medical shops are selling application forms for Rs 10 to the migrants. This, even as the district administration, has added to the woes of migrants by making online permits and their printouts mandatory to leave the state. Migrants were seeing queuing up outside shops in Godadara, Kadodara, Pandesara and Limbayat to purchase application form for vehicle pass to travel to their native places. The forms printed on plain paper without validation from the district collector’s office are being sold for Rs10 each, sources said. A video shot by Jitendra Yadav, an alert citizen from Kadodara, has gone viral on social media. The owner of a medical store in Kadodara can be seen distributing the application forms to migrants by taking out photocopies for Rs10 each. As the video went viral, police booked the medical store owner for cheating. PA Valvi, inspector, Kadodara police station, told TOI, “We have taken the cognizance of the incident and booked the medical store owner in Kadodara. Based on the video shot by Jitendra Yadav, we have registered a complaint and investigation is on” Thousands of migrants returned to Surat after travelling nearly 1,300 km two-way journeys from places as far as Dahod on Gujarat- MP border and Modasa in north Gujarat after being refused permission cross the borders. About 80 private buses and more than 50 private vehicles ferrying more than 6,000 migrant workers towards Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra returned to the city. Workers clash in Kutch Rajkot: Four labourers were injured when clashes broke out between two groups of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh at Sanghipuram colony of Sanghi Cements in Abdasa taluka of Kutch on Saturday night. Tempers flared when one of the groups had gone to make a representation before the labour contractor to arrange transport for their travel to UP, but had to return emptyhanded when he denied. When they returned to the colony, workers from the other group mocked at the failed attempt which led to an altercation. “They attacked each other with bats, iron pipes and stones, that left four labourers injured. However, we rushed to the spot after getting a call and arrested 16 persons,” said R U Zala, sub-inspector with Vayor police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-migrants-adversity-some-grasp-opportunity-to-mint-money/articleshow/75523859.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||Three booked for entering Dang from Maha||Surat: Saputara police in Dang booked three more people for allegedly entering the district via the forest route on foot. Thsoe booked including a man and his wife who had reached Surgana village at Maharashtra-Gujarat border by temple and were then going on foot through forest area.The couple Ratan Pawar and his wife Manu told police that they had gone to Maharashtra’s Kolvadi village to work as farm labourers few weeks ago. But as there was no work due to lockdown, the decided to return home. They are natives of Darpada village of Waghai taluka.In another case, the police booked 35-year-old Shivabhai, a resident of Galkund village of Ahwa taluka, for entering Dang. He too was a farm labourer and returned as there was no workThree Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Dang district so far, all being nurses who returned from Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-booked-for-entering-dang-from-maha/articleshow/75523734.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Case booked in Aurangabad for spreading rumour against bakery||AURANGABAD: The cyber crime branch of the city police has registered an offence against an unidentified suspect for spreading a rumour that the staff of a leading bakery in the city had tested positive for Covid-19. The rumour was making rounds in social media to the extent that chief officer of the Cantonment board V Sahadeo More had to step in and clarify that nothing of this sort had happened in the bakery or anywhere in the limits of the Cantonment area. In April-end, some messages claiming that employees working at the leading bakery had tested positive for the infection were in circulation. Some messages even appealed to people to abstain from using the produce from the bakery. Initially, the messages were ignored but when peoples’ representatives, journalists and social workers started making frequent queries, the Cantonment board clarified the messages were nothing more than rumours. Taking cognizance of the issue, officer at the cyber crime branch Shilpa Telure lodged a complaint against an unidentified suspect, following which the Cantonment police registered an offence under sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities) and 505-B (causing fear or alarm among public) of the IPC. In addition, section 140 of the Maharashtra Police Act has also been slapped. When contacted, the management of Deluxe bakery said this was not the first time tha unwanted messages involving their firm were being circulated. The management warned of pursuing a defamation case against those trying to dent their reputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/case-booked-for-spreading-rumour-against-bakery/articleshow/75522947.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Weather plays spoilsport in IAF’s attempt to honour ESI Hospital doctors, nurses||COIMBATORE: Weather played spoilsport in Indian Air Force’s attempt to express its gratitude to the frontline workers of ESI Hospital in fight against Covid-19 on Sunday. To honour the doctors and staff nurses of the hospital, two IAF choppers were to carry out fly-pasts over the hospital and shower flower petals. Expecting the fly-past ceremony, a team of doctors and staff nurses from the ESI Hospital assembled outside the hospital building around 5.30pm. An IAF officer claimed to honour the doctors, two C130 transport aircrafts will fly around Coimbatore city from 5.45pm to 6pm from Sulur air base. The ESI Hospital did not get any official confirmation but they received the schedule of the flights. ESI hospital dean A Nirmala and a team of doctors, staff nurses gathered outside hospital building and waited to watch the fly-past ceremony for more than half an hour. A drone was kept ready to capture the memorable moment. A private staff was pressed into service to operate the drone. With no sight of choppers, doctors took photographs and went inside the hospital. When contacted, dean Nirmala said the doctors’ teams were not disappointed. “We also got the flight schedule and we believed that the two flights will fly above the hospital buildings,” Nirmala said. IAF officials said because of bad weather enroute, the aircrafts could not make it to Coimbatore and instead landed in Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/weather-plays-spoilsport-in-iafs-attempt-to-honour-esi-hospital-doctors-nurses/articleshow/75523774.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Patna||Patna University starts holding online seminars||PATNA: As universities are finding it difficult to organise seminars and academic conferences due to the lockdown, Patna University (PU) has started holding webinars (online seminars) and online interactive sessions for the benefit of students. One such webinar on ‘Covid-19 pandemic and the emerging world order’ was organised by the political science department of B N College, a constituent unit of PU, on Saturday in which teachers from Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Mahatma Gandhi Central University (MGCU), Motihari and PU addressed the college students. Priyanka Singh of BHU threw light on the possible changes in international relations in the post-Covid period and discussed the socio-economic impact of the pandemic in detail. She observed that WHO has not played its role effectively in containing the spread of this pandemic. A K Tripathi of MGCU said the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi should be followed by the people throughout the world to avoid pandemic and other man-made disasters. College principal Raj Kishore Prasad and political science department head Amrita Jaiswal also interacted with the students. About 40 students participated in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-starts-holding-online-seminars/articleshow/75522582.cms||B K Mishra
May 4, 2020||Patna||Gaya: No ‘Peace March’ this Buddha Jayanti||GAYA: With the lockdown getting a second extension beginning Monday, thousands of Buddha followers will miss the traditional ‘Sujata kheer’ and long Peace March on May 7, the day marking Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and salvation, all happening on the same full moon summer day. As per the belief, Sujata, a local milkmaid had offered milk and rice to fasting Buddha to end his six-year-long asceticism. Every year, especially made ‘kheer’ is distributed to mark the event. The ‘kheer’ will be made this year too. But it will have only one recipient— the bronze Buddha image installed on the shrine’s sanctorum. Besides symbolic kheer, the image will also get a robe. As per tradition, hundreds of Buddhist monks got a special meal called ‘Sanghadan’ and robes. But this Buddha Purnima, there will be no ‘Sanghdan’ and no ‘Chivardan’. According to DM Abhishek Singh, who is also the ex officio chairman of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC), the rituals will be performed by a group of 13 resident monks, who will ensure maintenance of physical distancing. Ven Pragya Deep, President of the International Buddhist Council is disappointed as his request for limited entry for monks representing different Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries has been turned down. According to the council chairman, he sought special passes for the monks but shrine committee secretary N Dorje turned down the request on the alibi that Gaya district having been placed in the red zone, any outsider would not be given entry and only resident monks would be there. As per the schedule the monks will chant mantras of the Theravada and Mahayana traditions of Buddhism. According to old timers, though the event has a long history of celebrations, it got official sanction in 1953 when the shrine management was handed over to a joint committee of Hindus and Buddhists. Since then the official celebrations have been a regular feature. For long, the shrine was managed by the Shivite Bodh Gaya Mutt. An Act was passed in 1949 ending the Shivite Mutt possession of the Buddha shrine. As per the 1949 Act, only the Hindu DM of Gaya was entitled to be the chairman of the Temple Management Committee. In case the Gaya DM being a non-Hindu, the state government was to nominate a Hindu as its chairman. This happened only once in the 1960s when KM Zuberi, a Muslim was made Gaya DM. The state government nominated MLC Jageshwar Prasad Khalish as the shrine committee chief for the period of Zubberi’s incumbency as Gaya DM. A few years back, the Nitish Kumar government amended the Act making Gaya DM, the shrine committee’s chief, irrespective of the DM’s religious profile. Also missing this year would be thousands of Ambedkarites from Maharashtra who have been reiterating the demand for total Buddhist control over the shrine. For several years, conversions called ‘Dikchha’ have been taking place in Bodh Gaya during Buddha Jayanti. This year, there would be no baptisation as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-peace-march-this-buddha-jayanti/articleshow/75522839.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 4, 2020||Patna||Ensure ration cards to all poor families: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure that all poor families without ration card in the state get it along with financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family. Chairing a review meeting with senior officials here, CM said, “Providing a valid ration card to each poor family is very necessary. Once a ration card is provided, the family concerned will be able to continue to get its benefit even in future.” He asked the chief secretary to provide a valid ration card to all those families identified by the Jeevika’s self-help groups in rural areas and by the members of National Urban Livelihood Mission in urban areas. “Please also ensure transfer of financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family in their bank accounts,” CM told the officials. Nitish also asked the chief secretary to maintain proper coordination with other states so that stranded migrant workers willing to return home do not face any difficulty. While reviewing the arrangements made for the transportation of returning workers from railway station to quarantine centres, the CM asked the officials to sanitise all the buses which were being used to transport returning workers. He said people should be sent to quarantine centres while maintaining physical distancing norms. He also asked the officials to ensure quality of food, lodging and medical facilities at all block and panchayat quarantine centres. CM said senior officials should visit such quarantine centres and ensure quality of food and lodging facilities. “Make arrangement of sufficient number of toilets and bathrooms at each quarantine centre,” he said. The CM said all people returning by the special trains must be screened on their arrival at the railway station. “Those found with some symptoms of cough, cold and fever should be taken for necessary medical testing as per the Covid-19 protocol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-ration-cards-to-all-poor-families-cm/articleshow/75522477.cms||Madan Kumar
May 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: Lockdown revives indoor games and family bonding||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown has forced most of the people to remain indoors. As the television channels have been running their old daily shows and the online streaming of movies and serials have proved too much for many of us, the residents are spending more time with families, playing ludo, carrom, trump cards, chess, housie and antakshari and solving jigsaw puzzles. For the 35-year-old Sudhanshu Shekhar, it is like reliving his childhood days again. “Who would have thought that we would again play such games, which this generation called outdated. Nowadays, we spend our evening playing board games or even chit games like raja-mantri and name-place-animal and thing,” he said. Khushboo Sinha (27) of east Lohanipur said she cleaned the old carrom board and uno cards that her parents had put in the storeroom with other toys and things of her childhood days. “There are few cards missing from Uno, but it is still fun to play the card games with family,” she said. “Indoor games have become popular means of entertainment for us to beat the lockdown blues. The entire family watched few television series in the morning hours. But the main fun for us is to play dumb charades, antakshari or carrom,” said Rohini Priyam (38) of Nala Road. Indoor pastimes such as carrom and cards are otherwise considered risky as the chances of transmission of Covid-19 virus are high. But, people are seen playing various kinds of games with their children on their rooftops. Vinay Kumar Singh of Rajendra Nagar said he plays the indoor games while maintaining social distance. “It is the time to strengthen our family bonding. My kids are now spending more time with their grandparents. For us, evening time is to play games and night is for storytelling. My parents narrate many good stories to us, which I had forgotten,” he said. Many people who couldn’t find board or card games at their homes, switched to online games and challenging friends on social media. “I have created a game room in which I play chess and ludo with my friends. It is quite a fun,” said Shalini Dubey (25) of Boring Canal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-revives-indoor-games-family-bonding/articleshow/75522568.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 4, 2020||Patna||Two held, three evade arrest in Bihta blackbuck case||PATNA: The forest department officials on Sunday formally arrested two people and sent them to jail for transporting a female blackbuck in an SUV near Bihta in Patna rural on Saturday. They were identified as Md Salim and Kapil Kumar of Maner. Patna divisional forest officer (DFO) Ruchi Singh said the vehicle used in the crime was registered in the name of one Arshad Khan, stated to be the brother of Farid Khan alias Guddu Khan, the vice-chairperson of Maner Nagar Parishad. Singh said Arshad, Sanjay Rai, Guddu Khan, Salim and Kapil were named as accused in the wild life offence report, also called POR. Three others were absconding, she said. The accused have been booked under Section 9 of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972. If held guilty by the competent court, the accused may have to undergo imprisonment from three to seven years, Singh said. The recovered blackbuck will be handed over to the Patna zoo authorities. “We have already informed the senior officers of the forest department about it,” Singh said over phone. Guddu was earlier booked for allegedly killing a ‘nilgai’. The case is still pending with Maner police station. “Hunting or keeping any endangered species is an offence under Wild Life Protection Act,” a senior forest department officer said. Bihta police station SHO Awadhesh Kumar Jha said the seized vehicle had been issued travel pass during lockdown. Last week, a young male blackbuck was found dead and its two horns chopped off under Baghaila police station area in Rohtas district. A police constable, Niraj Kumar Dubey, was arrested and one of the horns of the killed blackbuck was recovered. The senior officials of the forest department said blackbucks were being killed in Bihar either for meat or using them as trophies. Meanwhile, two blackbucks were spotted by some people near Pasera village under Imamganj panchayat and Gareria village under Raniganj panchayat in Gaya district on Sunday morning. The blackbucks entered the villages in a bid to save themselves from stray dogs, which chased them. Imamganj BDO Jai Kishun Kumari said the blackbucks were handed over to the forest department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-held-3-evade-arrest-in-bihta-blackbuck-case/articleshow/75522399.cms||Ramashankar
May 4, 2020||Business||Credit risk funds’ AUM see 26% fall in a week||MUMBAI: In just one week after Franklin Templeton MF’s shock-decision to close down six of its debt funds late on April 23, all the credit risk funds, the high-risk-schemes at the centre of the crisis, together saw a Rs 12,569-crore or nearly 26% slide in their total assets under management (AUM). From managing Rs 48,576 crore on April 30, AUM of 20 credit risk funds fell to Rs 36,008 crore by April 30, latest data from industry body Amfi showed. Part of this slide could be attributed to fall in prices of their assets, but most of it was due to redemptions by investors, industry players said. The silver lining, however, is that the pace of redemptions from credit risk funds abated substantially after the RBI on April 27 opened a special funding window for fund houses, Amfi officials said. According to RBI data, in three days since the Special Liquidity Facility for Mutual Funds (SLF-MF) started, banks borrowed Rs 6,000 crore through this scheme. Under the rules, fund houses are to borrow from SLF-MF through banks. According to an Amfi release, as of April 24, net redemptions, that is redemptions net of funds mobilised by all the credit risk funds in the industry, was Rs 2,949 crore, which peaked at Rs 4,294 crore on April 27. It was on that day the RBI announced SLF-MF, a Rs 50,000-crore, 90-day borrowing window for fund houses. Thereafter, for the past three days, that is April 28 to April 30, the net redemptions under these funds fell steadily by Rs 1,847 crore, Rs 1,251 crore and Rs 794 crore, respectively, an AMFI release said. “All the mutual funds have met the redemptions in the normal course of business,” it said. The declining trend in net redemptions from credit risk funds is indicative of investors comfort from RBI’s special liquidity facility available to MFs industry, said Nilesh Shah, chairman, Amfi. The MF industry trade body continues to work with the regulators for normal functioning of the market, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-risk-funds-aum-see-26-fall-in-a-week/articleshow/75524181.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||Mumbai firm to start making rapid Covid test kits in Umargam||Surat: Mumbai-headquartered Lab Care Diagnostics (India) Pvt. Ltd is all set to begin manufacturing of ‘Made in India’ rapid antibody test kits for the early detection of the Covid-19 at its unit at Umbergaon in Valsad distrit.The company had received approval from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the rapid antibody and RT-PCR test kits about a fortnight ago.This week, the manufacturing will begin at its unit located in Sarigam GIDC in Umbergaon, company officials said.“The production of the test kits will start in the next three days. We will manufacture about 1.5 lakh test kits per day to cater to the huge demand in the country,” said Ravi Chadha, founder of Lab Care Diagnostics.The company claims that the rapid test kits will give results in 15 minutes. The kit will come in the packet size of 25 tests and 50 tests.After the rapid COVID-19 test kits imported from China were found to be faulty, the ICMR has halted the use of the rapid antibody test kits for the time being. So far, India has relied on the definitive RT-PCR test kits which involves taking a throat swab.The rapid antibody testing helps in examining whether the person has developed antibodies in his or her blood stream to fight the SARS-CoV-2, which indicates whether a person has been exposed to or has Covid-19. Chadha added, “It took us more than three months to develop the rapid antibody test kits and RT-PCR at our facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mumbai-firm-to-start-making-rapid-covid-test-kits-in-umargam/articleshow/75523810.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||About 90 % Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic: Authorities||Aurangabad: Close to 90% of the Covid-19 positive cases reported from Aurangabad as well as parts of Marathwada region are asymptomatic, say authorities. The latest findings have stunned the authorities after which the precautionary as well as screening measures are being scaled up. The total number of Covid-19 patients in Aurangabad stood at 283 till Sunday evening. However, the health experts are hopeful of high recovery rate amongst the asymptomatic patients due to age factor as well as better immunity. Initially about 25 to 30 cases cases reported were symptomatic. However, after the administration went for large scale contact tracing, testing and isolating, there has been a surge in the number of cases. The phenomenon of getting high number of asymptomatic Cocid-19 positive patients in Aurangabad is no different than other cases being reported from Jalna, Hingoli and Nanded districts. Revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has confirmed the reports that a large number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19 are asymptomatic. “Almost 80% to 90% of the total Covid-19 positive cases reported so far are asymptomatic,” said Kendrekar. Authorities said that asymptomatic patients and their relatives are in denial mode about being infected due to lack of awareness, making it difficult for authorities to convince and counsel them. In the Sanjaynagar area of the city, after two people tested positive, the authorities went for large scale contact tracing and identifying high-risk and low-risk patients and quarantined 117. “All the 117 we quarantined were asymptomatic and appeared healthy, but when the tests were carried out, 64 of these people tested positive,” said AMC law officer Aparna Thite. A total of 194 jawans from the Hingoli-based State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) returned from their duty in Mumbai and Malegaon last week. None of them had any symptoms. Hingoli SRPF commandant Manchak Ipper told TOI, “When first four-five men tested positive, they did not had any symptoms. We frequently tested all of our men and of the 46 positive cases we have, 36 are asymptomatic.” He said that the other cases have very mild symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/about-90-covid-19-cases-are-asymptomatic-authorities/articleshow/75522939.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 4, 2020||Business||India is net copper importer for 1st time in 18 yrs||Chennai: With the domestic copper manufacturers unable to meet the demand, India imported 69% more refined copper at 1,32,445 tonnes between April-January 2020, with imports from Japan nearly doubling. India has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Japan.For the first time in 18 years, India became a net copper importer as its largest copper smelter in 2018-19 as its largest smelter run by Sterlite, part of the billionaire Anil Agarwal controlled Vedanta group, was shut down in May 2018, by the TN state government following a bloody protest by locals who claimed the smelter was a polluter. The police firing left 13 dead. India was a net exporter of copper till 2017-18. Imports of refined copper from Japan doubled to 103 lakh tonnes, data from the Union commerce ministry showed. Downstream copper makers preferred imported copper over domestic cathode due to fall in international prices and lower duties under FTA with Japan, which accounted for 77% of the total imports during April-January 2020. This is because of India’s preferential trade deal with Japan. There is a 5% import duty on import of finished copper products but India enjoys a preferential tariff of 0.9% on imports of cathodes from Japan under the FTA, wrote Rashmi Rawat, analyst with Care Ratings. India’s refined copper production fell by a sharp 40% to 4.57 lakh tonnes in FY19 due to closure of Sterlite’s copper unit in Tuticorin. And the period April-January 2020, it fell a further 60% at 3.37 lakh tonnes year-on year. “Lower production during the current year is likely to be on account of increase in share of imports, sluggish demand and lower international prices. All three refined copper producers namely – Hindalco Industries, Vedanta and Hindustan Copper reported fall in production during the period,” she said. “In fiscal FY20, India’s refined copper production fell by a further 60% during April-January vs comparable period last year. The country produced 337 thousand tonnes of refined copper during this period as compared with 379.3 thousand tonnes in the corresponding period of the previous year. Lower production in the current year is likely to be on account of increase in share of imports, sluggish demand and lower international prices,” the Care note said. Exports on the other hand contracted further due to slowdown in global demand. Export of refined copper fell 13% to 33.8 thousand tonnes during April-January FY20 compared to last year, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-is-net-copper-importer-for-1st-time-in-18-yrs/articleshow/75524122.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
May 4, 2020||Surat||Surat: Fleeced migrants feeling ‘cheated’||SURAT: The plight of migrants, who have been forced to return to Surat from Gujarat borders, left several greedy people unmoved. Taking advantage of the workers’ desperation to return to their native places, some grocery and medical shops are selling application forms for Rs 10 to these migrant workers. This, even as the district administration, has added to the woes of migrants by making online permits and their printouts mandatory to leave the state. Migrants were seeing queuing up outside shops in Godadara, Kadodara, Pandesara and Limbayat to purchase application form for vehicle pass to travel to their native places. The forms printed on plain paper without validation from the district collector’s office are being sold for Rs10 each, sources said. A video shot by Jitendra Yadav, an alert citizen from Kadodara, has gone viral on social media. The owner of a medical store in Kadodara can be seen distributing the application forms to migrants by taking out photocopies for Rs10 each. As the video went viral, police booked the medical store owner for cheating. PA Valvi, inspector, Kadodara police station, told TOI, “We have taken the cognizance of the incident and booked the medical store owner in Kadodara. Based on the video shot by Jitendra Yadav, we have registered a complaint and investigation is on” Thousands of migrants returned to Surat after travelling nearly 1,300 km twoway journeys from places as far as Dahod on Gujarat- MP border and Modasa in north Gujarat after being refused permission cross the borders. About 80 private buses and more than 50 private vehicles ferrying more than 6,000 migrant workers towards Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra returned to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-migrants-adversity-some-grasp-opportunity-to-mint-money/articleshow/75523665.cms||Melvyn Thomas
May 4, 2020||Patna||PDS shops to remain open for nine hours in Bihar||PATNA: All the 55,000 public distribution system (PDS) shops in the state would remain open for nine hours each day to provide free rice and wheat to ration card holders in view of the coronavirus outbreak and resultant lockdown, food and consumer protection department (FCPD) sources said. The government has given the responsibility to run the 55,000 PDS shops to people from scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and backward class communities as well as those from minority, women and general sections. The PDS shopkeepers had been on strike since May 1, seeking fulfilment of their 13-point charter of demands. “The strike has been withdrawn and all the PDS shopkeeprs have been informed about it,” state Fair Price Dealers’ Association (FPDA) working president Barun Kumar Singh said. The decisions were taken in a telephonic conversation between FCPD minister Madan Sahni and FPDA working president Singh. Henceforth, the PDS shops in state will remain open for nine hours each day from 7am to 4pm. The one-day holiday given in a week has been done away with for the months of May and June. The FCPD will provide protective gear to the PDS shopkeeprs. The PDS shopkeeprs will continue to take the thumb impressions of the ration card holders who receive foodgrain from their shops. They had earlier demanded withdrawal of this provision to prevent spread of Covid-19. It was also decided to extend the age limit from 58 to 61 years for transfer of ownership of the PDS shop by one shopkeeper to his dependent on compassionate ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pds-shops-to-remain-open-for-nine-hours/articleshow/75522493.cms||Abhay Singh
May 4, 2020||Business||99% CKP Bank depositors to get back full money: RBI||MUMBAI: The RBI has said that of the 1.3 lakh depositors of CKP Co-operative Bank, about 99.2% will get full payment of their deposits from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation. On Saturday, the RBI had announced that it has cancelled the licence of CKP Co-op Bank with effect from April 30 and has asked the registrar of cooperative societies to initiate winding up proceedings and appoint a liquidator for the bank. The 105-year old cooperative bank had eight branches spread across Mumbai and Thane. Its name is an abbreviation of Chandraseniya Kayastha Prabhu, the Maharashtrian community that started the bank. The cooperative lender on its website has said that it 55 wilful defaulters owe more than Rs 209 crore. It has named Vijay Vaidya of Nanai Dairy and Avishkar Developers, Dinesh Shah of Labdhi Corporation, Dyandev Salunkhe of Siddharth Dairy and Phulchand Jagtap of Siddharth Dairy as top defaulters. “CKP Co-op bank has been under the all-inclusive direction of the RBI since 2014. As there was no scope for the revival of the bank, its licence has been cancelled,” a bank spokesperson said in a statement on Twitter. This is the first time the central bank is triggering the higher deposit insurance limit, which came into effect after the Union Budget in February 2020. According to the bank’s website, its deposits stood at Rs 485 crore as on November 2019, while loans outstanding were Rs 161 crore. It had a negative net worth of Rs 239 crore due to defaults. “The financial position of the bank is highly adverse and unsustainable. There is no concrete revival plan or proposal for a merger with another bank. Credible commitment towards revival from the management is not visible,” the RBI said. “The bank is not in a position to pay its present and future depositors, thereby not complying with the law,” the central bank said. Central bank officials said that the bank could not be allowed to restart operations as it did not have the minimum required capital adequacy and reserves and there was no earning potential. According to RBI spokesperson the affairs of the bank were and are being conducted in a manner detrimental to the public interest and interest of the depositors and that the general character of the management of the bank is prejudicial to the interest of depositors as also public interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/99-ckp-bank-depositors-to-get-back-full-money-rbi/articleshow/75524204.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Surat||400-year-old African baobab tree falls in Surat||Surat: A majestic 400-year-old African Baobab tree also known as ‘chor amlo’, standing tall on the main road at Adajan Gam, collapsed on Saturday evening.The African Baobab tree at the road divider outside the Khodiyar Mata temple in Adajan was the centre of attraction for the environmentalists and local residents. Sources said that the tree collapsed after breaking from its soft trunk. Due to the lockdown and the deserted roads, there was no damage reported due to the falling of the giant tree. Dr S J Gautam, garden superintendent of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said, “The tree collapsed after its trunk broke from the middle. Sometime ago, the branches of the tree had broken. The water content in the Baobab tree is about 60% and it has hallow trunk. Since it was the oldest tree, emotions of the people in Adajan were deeply attached to the tree.” Dr Gautam added, “The fire and emergency department cleared the road immediately. There is no damage reported, except to the road divider” Ajit Patel, a resident of Adajan Gam said, “I have my childhood memories attached to this tree. I was very much upset when the tree collapsed. I remember, we had protested against the SMC’s move to chop the tree for the road widening work many years ago.” Another resident, Shailesh Prajapati said, “After coronavirus, this was another bad news for us. We are very much upset due to the collapse of the tree.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/400-year-old-african-baobab-tree-falls-in-surat/articleshow/75523825.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Teens raise funds via crowdfunding to help poor women make masks||Vadodara: With extension of vacation due to lockdown, majority of school and college students are either glued to over-the-top (OTT) platforms or hooked to playing online games. But these three teenagers from Vadodara decided to turn the time on their hands to create employment for 20 women and provide masks to needy people in the district. The three friends – two school students and a law school student – got together to raise funds through crowdfunding to make and distribute around 35,000 masks. “My father and I were talking about how safety equipment, including face masks, are necessary during the current health crisis and that the poor people may not be able to afford them,” said Mallika Dand, who recently took Class XII examination. Dand shared the idea with her two friends Velisha Patel and Naman Parikh and they immediately got on-board.“Not everyone can afford to buy a mask daily and there are people like vegetable vendors and labourers who continue going out daily in lockdown. We felt that they should get masks which can be reused after washing,” said Patel, the law student. The trio borrowed money from their parents and pooled in from their pocket money and got 5,000 masks made initially under the name, ‘Project Sahyog’. “Later we decided to take donations for this project. We explained to people what we are trying to do and how it will help the society at-large,” said Parikh. Besides friends and acquaintances, the trio received donations from strangers living as far as in Mumbai and the USA.“We collected Rs1.2 lakh and got in touch with some women through NGOs and tailors. We asked them to sew masks for us so that they can also earn money in lockdown,” Patel said. As Patel’s mother is a fashion designer, the team could get cloth in bulk even as the markets are closed.The teens travelled across the city and to some villages like Kotna, Bhimpura and Ankodia on the outskirts to distribute the masks. Recently, they also donated the masks in large numbers to district administration and Vadodara Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teens-raise-funds-via-crowdfunding-to-help-poor-women-make-masks/articleshow/75522713.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 4, 2020||Goa||Labour dept says halt work for 3 hours during heat wave||Panaji: After the revenue department warned of a heat wave in the second week of May, the department for labour and employment has directed all construction firms and outdoor workplaces to halt activity for a three-hour period from 12pm to 3pm from May 8 to May 14. The department has also asked contractors to provide adequate water for workers and ensure that first aid is made available, said labour commissioner Raju Gawas. Gawas said that construction activity can resume after 3pm and continue till 7pm, if required. “The revenue department has issued a heat wave forecast and now we have come up with an advisory to stop construction work from 12pm to 3pm. Work can continue for an additional hour to make up for lost time if required,” Gawas said. The state government has also issued a list of guidelines for citizens to handle the heat wave. The administration has also issued a cautionary warning to government departments to be prepared for the week. Interestingly, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the temperature in the state may rise, but it may not meet the criteria for a heat wave, since temperature need to cross 37 degrees Celcius. The IMD expects maximum temperature in the second week of May to be 3-4 degrees higher than normal. The department wants adequate precautions in place to safeguard manual workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/labour-dept-says-halt-work-for-3-hours-during-heat-wave/articleshow/75524591.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases go up by 21 in Telangana, 58 in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday reported 21 new cases of Covid- 19, taking the overall tally to 1,082, as another two-member central team is scheduled to land in the city soon to assist the government. While 508 people are undergoing treatment, a total of 545 people have recovered and discharged so far.“It is good that 50 per cent of the patients have recovered. Even if we have partial relaxations, people should continue to maintain social distance,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. Authorities said Greater Hyderabad reported 20 cases, and the other case was reported from Jagityal. From Sultan Bazar area, a 57-year-old person tested positive for Covid- 19 after returning from a marriage in Medak. A central team under the leadership of Arun Baroka, additional secretary with ministry of Jal Shakti, concluded the tour in the state and left for Delhi on Sunday. Another public health team comprising Dr Jayanth Das and Dr Deepayan Banerjee, working with the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare, will visit Hyderabad soon. They will work with state authorities and give them suggestions on curbing the virus spread. Among the districts, Karimnagar, Sircilla, Kamareddy, Mahbubnagar, Medak, Bhupalapally, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Peddapally, Siddipet, Mahbubabad, Mancheryal, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Vikarabad, Nalgonda and Narayanpet have not reported any fresh cases for the last 14 days, while Warangal, Yadadri and Wanaparthy have not reported a single case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-to-visit-t-as-total-mounts-to-1082/articleshow/75524256.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19 cases go up by 21 in Telangana, 58 in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday reported 21 new cases of Covid- 19, taking the overall tally to 1,082, as another two-member central team is scheduled to land in the city soon to assist the government. While 508 people are undergoing treatment, a total of 545 people have recovered and discharged so far.“It is good that 50 per cent of the patients have recovered. Even if we have partial relaxations, people should continue to maintain social distance,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. Authorities said Greater Hyderabad reported 20 cases, and the other case was reported from Jagityal. From Sultan Bazar area, a 57-year-old person tested positive for Covid- 19 after returning from a marriage in Medak. A central team under the leadership of Arun Baroka, additional secretary with ministry of Jal Shakti, concluded the tour in the state and left for Delhi on Sunday. Another public health team comprising Dr Jayanth Das and Dr Deepayan Banerjee, working with the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare, will visit Hyderabad soon. They will work with state authorities and give them suggestions on curbing the virus spread. Among the districts, Karimnagar, Sircilla, Kamareddy, Mahbubnagar, Medak, Bhupalapally, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Peddapally, Siddipet, Mahbubabad, Mancheryal, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Vikarabad, Nalgonda and Narayanpet have not reported any fresh cases for the last 14 days, while Warangal, Yadadri and Wanaparthy have not reported a single case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/central-team-to-visit-t-as-total-mounts-to-1082/articleshow/75527022.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Sanitary workers to go on strike||COIMBATORE: More than 1,000 sanitary workers of the city corporation have decided to go on one-day strike on Monday demanding that they too should be tested for Covid-19. They have also demanded the state government to provide safety gears. “Sanitary workers are highly prone to Covid-19 infection as they are working throughout the lockdown period and collecting garbage even from the containment zones. Also, as most of the workers are living either in housing units of the slum clearance board or at slums, the chances of ensuring social distancing between them is negligible and the infection could spread to others easily,” said R Ravi Kumar, general secretary of Adi Tamizhar Peravai, who had called for the strike. Pointing out that most of the sanitary workers are residing at seven areas in the district, he said that even if a person is diagnosed with the infection, then the entire area would turn into a containment zone and even the other workers could not step out of their locality. It in turn would affect the corporation’s work to keep the city clean, he added. Despite the risks, the state government has not tested most of the sanitary workers, he said, adding that they had given only medicines to boost their immunity power. Also, no proper safety equipment including boots, head gear, gloves and masks and hand sanitizers were given to the workers, he said. Pointing out that the central government has announced Rs 50 lakh insurance to the frontline workers in the view of Covid-19 pandemic, he said while several states including Kerala and Punjab had included sanitary workers in the frontline workers list, the Tamil Nadu government has not clarified its stand. “We request the state government to include sanitary workers in the list,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sanitary-workers-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/75523786.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Varanasi||Infected BHU scientist’s father, son test +ve||Varanasi: Varanasi recorded three new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday with the arrival of test reports from KGMU, Lucknow. The new cases include one-year-old son and 66-year-old father of the infected lab scientist of BHU’s Covid lab, residents of Bagbariyar Singh locality of Chetanganj area, and a 75-year-old man from Madanpura hotspot, who had been in contact with an infected attendee of Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi. The district’s tally of positive cases now stands at 64, out of which one had died on April 3 and 13 had been cured. Total number of active cases undergoing treatment are 50. Number of hotspot areas reduced from 25 to 22 in the district after the exclusion of Lohta, Bajardiha and Gangapur areas from this list. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Apart from three new positive cases, second test reports of two already infected persons were also found positive. These two persons are also contacts of infected Tablighi Jamaat attendees.” “The 75-year-old man from Madanpura hotspot who tested positive on Sunday, remained in contact with an infected Tablighi Jamaat attendee from Karnataka. The total number of infected Tablighi Jamaat attendees and people who contracted the virus from them reached to 18 in the district,” Sharma added. Second test reports of four infected persons including three in contact with positive Tablighi Jamaat attendees, and one from Pandey Haveli area were found to be negative on Sunday. All the four were discharged from the hospital, said the DM adding, they all belonged to Madanpura hotspot area. “Despite the negative second report, those three persons who came in contact with infected Tablighi Jamaat attendees, will be kept under quarantine in Shivpur area as a precautionary measure,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/infected-bhu-scientists-father-son-test-ve/articleshow/75522723.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||'Goa facing funds crunch, must cut expenses'||PANAJI: A cash-strapped Goa, which has been hit by a double whammy of economic slump and lockdown, is facing severe strain on funds and will have to curb its non-essential expenditure and plug revenue leaks, finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar has said. He said with drastic drop in GST collections in March and April and the trend likely to continue for a few more months, along with the delay in release of compensation from the Centre, the state is going to face funds crunch in the coming months. Hawaldar told the state executive committee that Goa has to meet substantial committed expenditure every month and simultaneously keep its growing debt in check. On April 29, TOI had front-paged a report that said the state government’s tax revenue has dried up, GST dues were delayed and that budget cuts and freeze in increase of DA are being considered. Senior officials confirmed that the state’s revenue crunch was discussed at the SEC meeting and said chief secretary Parimal Rai stressed on the need for plugging tax leakages. “Expenditure control measures will be taken after discussion with the government. In the coming weeks, advisories may go out to departments to defer non-priority projects and unnecessary expenditure for the next fiscal year,” said a senior government officer present at the meeting. The finance department has already started identifying measures to control the state’s expenditure and to optimise funds available with the state and central grants. The official said the resumption of economic activity in the state will help spur some momentum and improve GST collections for May. The SEC also noted that there has been a 17% drop in power consumption during the lockdown period as compared to the same period a year ago. The drop has been attributed to the closure of the hospitality sector. Revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar, in a statement after the meeting, said all norms of social distancing, face masks, sanitisers and other safety norms have to be followed even as restrictions on movement are lifted in the state. Goa police, district collectors, rural and urban authorities need to ensure that markets close by 6pm and should not open before 8am to ensure compliance with the MHA’s direction. The SEC also noted that since distribution of ration at fair price shops has returned to normal, KTC buses, which were being used to distribute groceries, would be discontinued. KTC officials agreed with the SEC’s decision to slowly reduce the number of relief buses since normal public transport services would resume from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fin-secy-state-facing-funds-crunch-must-cut-expenses/articleshow/75524588.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||KSRTC bus topples, deputy CM helps injured driver||Ballari: A Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus that was bound for Bengaluru on Sunday toppled, and landed in a trench by the road in Kudligi in Ballari district. The bus, which was returning to the state capital after ferrying labourers to Bagalkot district, was bereft of all passengers but for three members of the crew. Somanna, Mounesh Pattar and Sharanappa Kalgudi were the three KSRTC crew members travelling on board the bus. While Somanna and Pattar had driven the KSRTC bus from Bengaluru to Bagalkot to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their home, Kalgudi, a driver with the Bengaluru division, boarded the bus at Bagalkot since he had been directed by his superiors to report to duty in the state capital. Somanna, who was at the wheel on the returning journey, reportedly lost control of the bus, resulting in the vehicle landing in a trench by the road. While Somanna and Pattar were unhurt, Kalgudi sustained minor injuries. Fortunately for the trio, help arrived from an unexpected quarter, when deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, who was returning to Bengaluru from Ballari spotted the toppled bus and decided to lend a helping hand. Savadi subsequently called for an ambulance and police, and directed the authorities to ensure that Kalgudi received medical treatment without delay. Before he left, the deputy CM reportedly gave Kalgudi food, medicines and money so as to help sustain himself during his stay at the hospital. Kalgudi was treated as an outpatient at the Kudligi government hospital. Sources said that Kalgudi has sustained only minor injuries. Kudligi circle police inspector Pompanagowda said that an FIR has been registered in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ksrtc-bus-topples-deputy-cm-helps-injured-driver/articleshow/75522149.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Varanasi||Youth feared drowned in Ganga||Varanasi: One youth was feared drowned in river Ganga in Varanasi while his companion was saved by locals near Gaura Uparwar village under the limits of Chaubeypur police station in Varanasi on Sunday. Meanwhile, in two other incidents, a youth drowned in river Karmnash in Chandauli district while two ITI students were killed by drowning in river Tamsa in Mau district. As per the reports, seven youths of Gaura Uparvar and adjoining villages had gone to banks of river Ganga in Varanasi on Sunday morning. While they were bathing in the river, two of the students Govind and Vikas Tiwari slipped into deep water. Other students and local boatmen swung into action. After exercising hard they succeeded in rescuing Govind but Vikas was feared drowned, said SO Chaubeypur Manoj Kumar. Police engaged local divers to search Vikas but his body could not be found till late evening. Meanwhile, a youth of Devkhat village under the limits of Naugarh police station in Chandauli district was drowned in river Karmnasha when he had gone there to wash his animals in the river. On seeing him drowning, locals jumped into the river to rescue him. The villagers rushed him to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. In another in Mau district, two ITI students were drowned in river Tamsa while they were bathing near Bhavnathpur village under Sarai Lakhansi police station in morning. Villagers fished out their bodies, said police. Man shot: A 50-year-old man Rama Yadav was shot by some assailants when he was sleeping ona cot outside his house in Makdoompur village under the limits of Kasimabad police station in Ghazipur district on late Saturday night. SO Kasimabad Balvan Singh said that a named FIR has been lodged in this connection and a search has been launched to nab the absconding accused. It is being speculated that the murder took place over an old property dispute, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-feared-drowned-in-ganga/articleshow/75522752.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad students request varsity to revoke ‘restrictive’ zero backlog clause||HYDERABAD: Students enrolled in the five-year integrated courses at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have requested the varsity to revoke the zero backlog clause. The clause bars those studying in the fourth semester of IMSc (Integrated MSc) and sixth semester of IMA (Integrated MA) from getting promoted to the next semester if they have any backlogs. Every year, students, who have backlogs, were given an option of availing summer courses to clear the backlogs. Irrespective of their specialization, all integrated students have to study common subjects in the first two years if they are science students and for first three years if they are IMA students. Students cited this as one of the main reason for the backlogs. Requesting the varsity to revoke the ‘restrictive’ clause in CIS, the members of student union have submitted a representation to the officials. “At least for this semester, the varsity should do away with the clause,” said Gopi Swamy, general secretary of the student union at the university. Vinod Pavarala, official spokesperson of UoH, confirmed that the varsity has received a petition from the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-request-varsity-to-revoke-restrictive-zero-backlog-clause/articleshow/75524261.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Private schools seek more time to pay salaries||COIMBATORE: Responding to a communication from the district chief education officer (CEO) directing them to pay teachers and non-teaching staff members, representatives of private school associations said they are unable to do so as they are facing a funds crunch. “We need more time to pay April’s salaries. We had to shut our institutions because of the lockdown. Only after reopening the schools and collecting the fee, would we be able to pay our teachers and other employees,” said R Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association. Chief education officer P Usha said the department had sent a communication in March to principals of all matriculation schools, self-financing schools, nursery and primary schools, and CBSE schools to pay their staff. “They had paid salaries after the communication. Now, we have sent them another one, asking them to pay salaries for April,” she said. The state government should allow private schools to open offices for conducting administrative functions, Visalakshi said. “Only if we open our offices, parents who might want to pay arrear fee could do it. We can also train our teachers in conducting online classes from June. We are not forcing parents to pay fees. Those who can afford, can pay, considering the strain schools are in,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-schools-seek-more-time-to-pay-salaries/articleshow/75523796.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||NGO offers free sanitary pads to women in need||COIMBATORE: While women across the state are worried about sanitary pad scarcity due to the lockdown, an NGO in Tirupur has been distributing the pads to underprivileged women. Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust, founded by Kavitha Jenarthanan, has so far distributed 200 sanitary napkin packets. “Initially we thought they would manage as the lockdown had reached only a month. But as it got extended, we decided to deliver sanitary napkins to them,” she said. “Women who had lost livelihoods due to the lockdown and struggling for a square meal, wouldn’t come out openly with the issue. As many of them are using branded pads instead of cloth, the situation might lead them back to the old ways. From a menstrual health point of view, this is very important,” she told TOI. “We might not be able to cover all needy women but will try to reach out to more of them till the lockdown ends.” The NGO has requested the Tirupur district administration to ask the organisations that are distributing grocery kits to the needy, to including sanitary napkins in the kits, Jenarthanan said. “We have placed order for 500 to 1,000 more to help more underprivileged women.” A week ago, social entrepreneur ‘padman’ Arunachalam Muruganantham had warned about the ‘alarming demand and scarcity of sanitary pads during the Covid-19 lockdown’ and disruption in supply. He had requested the government to make sanitary napkins an essential commodity and effect smooth and speedy clearance of raw material for making them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngo-offers-free-sanitary-pads-to-women-in-need/articleshow/75523801.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||AP cops yet to trace money trail in red sanders smuggling cases||HYDERABAD: Amid lockdown, red sanders smuggling has almost come to a halt due to increased police vigil. However, law enforcement agencies are yet to get to the bottom of money laundering involving smugglers, including one of the kingpins K Gangi Reddy, officials and politicians in AP. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had registered a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act against Gangi Reddy after he was brought to India from Mauritius in 2015. Sources in ED, however, said that there was no progress in the case since then. “In 2019, we recorded the statement of Gangi Reddy wherein he said his political opponents had implicated him. We will pursue the case after the lockdown,” ED sleuths said. AP police alleged that Gangi Reddy had amassed properties worth crores of rupees and that money had been routed to some influential politicians in Rayalaseema. Gangi Reddy, who was named in the naxalite attack against former CM N Chandrababu Naidu in 2003, was later acquitted in the case. After Naidu came to power in 2014, Gangi Reddy escaped to Dubai and from there to Mauritius. He jumped bail in the red sanders smuggling case booked in Kurnool. Police said Dubai is the hotspot for international red sanders smugglers where kingpins like Sahul Hameed are holed up. Several cases of red sanders smuggling have been booked against him in Kurnool and Kadapa districts. A senior AP cop said, “ED has taken up only Gangi Reddy case. There are several cases booked against notorious smugglers. All cases against major smugglers have to be transferred to ED.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cops-yet-to-trace-money-trail-in-red-sanders-smuggling-cases/articleshow/75524260.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 positive cancer patient dies||Coimbatore: A day after the district reported its first case after a lull of eight days, it saw the first Covid-19 death on Sunday. It was also a day when four more people were tested positive for the virus. With this, the total number of cases reported has gone upto 146. An official source identified the deceased as a 44-year-old cancer patient from Kavundampalayam who tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. He has been suffering from acute myeloid leukaemia and died at the Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital in Chennai, where he has been undergoing treatment. Of the four new cases, one is a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Saramedu and the remaining are members of a family on Baba Street in Venkitapuram. All of them have been admitted to the ESI Hospital. Their source of infection is yet to be traced. Their family members, including those who have tested negative and those yet to be tested, have been isolated. The public health department cordoned off Baba Street, Union Post Office Road and Saramedu on Sunday to contain local transmission. A health department official said the family in Venkitapuram was isolated on Saturday. While there were four of them, only three tested positive for the novel coronavirus. They comprise a 62-year-old man who runs a shop in the area, his 43-year-old wife and 10-year-old son. The man’s nine-year-old daughter has tested negative. To be on the safer side, she has been isolated in the ESI Hospital. All the four are asymptomatic, said K K Pudur primary health centre officials. Referring to the source of infection, the health official said the family is yet to divulge their travel history. “The man apparently brought his family to the district from Malappuram in Kerala on April 30 after acquiring a pass. He has mentioned visiting Madukkarai and places in Saibaba Colony. Last week, he attempted to take his family back to Malappuram in a vehicle on the pretext of some medical emergency, but officers at Walayar check post stopped them and sent them back, demanding a pass.” The family subsequently applied for inter-state travel pass, for which Covid-19 test is a must. G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “It was when they took the test, three of them were found to be infected.” Public health department officials sprang into action on Sunday, cordoning off Baba Street. They also tested their close neighbours, and everyone above 60 or with comorbidities. By afternoon, they collected more than 120 samples from the area and 100 or so samples from Union Post Office Road. “We collected at least 257 samples and tested the children, mother-in-law and other close family contacts of the cancer patient, who died today,” the official said. The 31-year-old pregnant woman was, meanwhile, tested positive when she went to KG Hospital to get admitted for delivery of her second child. Her tentative delivery date is May 22. The hospital had taken samples from her and sent that to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, which found her to be infected. She was subsequently shifted to the ESI Hospital on Sunday. A senior corporation health officer said, “Her husband, mother’s family and first child have been asked to remain in isolation. We will test them on Monday. While there is no clear source of infection, she had apparently frequented her mother’s house in Podanur, which is vulnerable right now, with cops and many residents testing positive.” The patient, who died, had on April 25 gone to CMCH, where he underwent treatment till April 30. CMCH dean Dr Kalidas said they have disinfected the ward he was in and decided not to use it for the next two days. The 108 ambulance that ferried him has also been disinfected and won’t be used for three days. “We have collected samples from 30 doctors and staff who were in contact with him, the ambulance driver, nine of his contact and his assistant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-ve-cancer-patient-dies/articleshow/75523805.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Three injured in fire mishap||Hyderabad: Three persons sustained minor burn injuries after fire broke out due to a short circuit at KCR Nagar in Ramanthapur, Uppal, on Sunday morning. The victims were identified as Arshad (25), Shadhna (22) and Nazeem (27), who were staying in a rented house in Uppal where the incident occurred at around 6 am. They were engaged in making dry grass pads used in coolers. A fire tender was pressed into service to douse the fire, while the officials shifted the victims to a hospital in an ambulance. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-injured-in-fire-mishap/articleshow/75524264.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for trying to vacate women’s PG facility in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police of the city on Sunday booked a man who had threatened some 10 women, belonging to different states, to vacate a paying guest (PG) facility run by his sister in a society in the Satellite area. According to an FIR filed by sub-inspector Mahendrasinh Limbola of Satellite police, the cops got a message from police control room at around 11.30am on Sunday that a woman had sought help from cops saying that her PG owner has been threatening her regarding rent of the PG facility. When the police team reached there, the woman who had called police control room told cops that the PG facility was run by one Kajal Sonagra and her brother Dipak Sonagra had warned the PG occupants to vacate the house. The FIR states that the cops found Dipak outside the housing society named Indus Park near Spipa Institute in the Satellite area. When police asked why he was roaming outside in lockdown, he could not give a satisfactory answer. After this, Dipak was booked for disobeying lockdown notification, adds the FIR. Inspector P D Darji of Satellite police said that Dipak had removed a water purifier from the PG facility and as no person has a right to deprive others from basic amenities, he was also booked for that offence. Sources in Satellite police said that the PG occupants had earlier raised grievances alleging that the PG owner, who had taken the house on lease from its owner, had told them to vacate the PG facility time and again. After the cook and caretaker of the PG facility left the house, the 10 women living in the PG facility had to fend for themselves. The women also bought ration and other essential goods themselves so they wanted to deduct that amount from their rent which ranged between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,500 per month. After this, allegedly Dipak began threats to evict the women, the FIR states. Police said they are looking into all aspects of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-trying-to-vacate-womens-pg-facility/articleshow/75523884.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Varanasi||Drugs wholesale markets to open today, norms laid out||Varanasi: After nine days of closure, the biggest drugs wholesale markets of Saptsagar, Bulanal and Nehru Market in Maidagin will open from Monday with new plan of operating maximum 190 shops in a day. Similarly, wholesale markets of essential commodities will also be reopened with odd-even formula. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Demands were coming from all districts of east UP and also neighbouring states to reopen the drugs wholesale market while shortage of medicine was being reported from retail outlets of the district. In view of this, strategy was finalised with help of Chemist and Druggist Welfare Association, Varanasi. It has been decided that one third of total shops of these three wholesale markets of medicine will be allowed to open in a day.” “There are 575 shops in these three markets. Of these, maximum 190 shops will be opened in a day. The association has finalised three batches of shops by dividing 575 in three parts and also has fixed the days when they will be opened on the rotation basis,” he said adding other conditions for operating these markets had also been decided. Association’s president Manoj Khanna said, “Only Town Hall and Chunagali entry points of the market will be opened for the movement of traders, their staff and labourers for loading and unloading of medicine consignments. Number of people at each shop will not exceed the mark of four including owner and operator. Retailers and semi-distributors from other EUP districts will place their orders on-line or phone only. Order will be delivered at the shops of retailers in the city while consignments of other district will be delivered to transporters concerned.” Number of labourers and vehicles for the transportation of drug consignments were also fixed and it was decided to provide identity cards to all of them to avoid problems in their movement. The drugs wholesale markets were closed in the district after a prominent trader was detected as COVID-19 positive. Later, 12 more persons including his family members, employees, customers and other traders, who were in his contact had also been tested positive while Saptsagar was declared a hot spot. Following testing of this trader as infected, the DM had ordered closing the market on April 25. Pharma companies have their depots in Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Varanasi to cater entire UP. Varanasi’s wholesale market supplies medicine traders of entire east UP, parts of Bihar and other neighbouring states and they all had been suffering. The foodgrain and other grocery material wholesale shops will also be opened with odd-even formula. The DM said that 900 semi-wholesale shops will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Other 160 major wholesalers will keep their shops opened on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. All these markets will remain closed on Sundays, he added. Only retailers will be allowed to enter these markets while all conditions of social distancing and following precautions like wearing masks, handwashing facility availability of sanitisers will be mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drugs-wholesale-markets-to-open-today-norms-laid-out/articleshow/75522771.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 4, 2020||Goa||Merge all coop banks and societies: Economic panel||Panaji: With the cooperative sector likely to take a hit due to the Covid-19 crisis, the economic revival committee in its final report has recommended that the state government merge all cooperative banks as well as cooperative societies and form just one cooperative bank for the entire state. There are over hundreds of cooperative societies and cooperative banks functioning in the state. The Reserve Bank of India recently cancelled the banking licence of the Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd and imposed financial sanctionson the Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank. The committee headed by industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar said public sector banks are seeing mergers and consolidation, pointing to the existence of scale economies in the functioning of these critical financial institutions. “The state government could push for similar consolidation of cooperative credit societies and cooperative banks (many of which were in trouble even before the current crisis) and have just one cooperative bank for the entire state. The state could even push for corporatisation of the resultant entity,” he said The committee said banks in Goa have a low CD ratio which is the result of low credit offtake and large deposits (to the extent of Rs76,000 crore). Besides bank deposits, the amount of investments in government bonds, MFs and debt funds is quite substantial, which are not reflected in Goa as most fund managers’ accounts are held outside Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/merge-all-coop-banks-and-societies-economic-panel/articleshow/75524596.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR services set to better post lockdown||Hyderabad: With major bottlenecks and long-pending maintenance works being carried during the lockdown, passengers will notice improvements in the services across the South Central Railway (SCR) zone once the movement of passenger train begins. “A major block of 72 hours was taken in Kazipet yard for pending yard remodelling to replacing old wooden scissors railway tracks which was laid in 1970. The pending work will not only improve the safety but also the speed of train movement through the yard,” reads an official statement from SCR. Officials informed that the renewal of old wooden rail with newer ones in the Vijayawada junction will provide a vital link and flexibility in the operations of the yard. “This will improve the movement of train service towards Secunderabad and Visakhapatnam,” said Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR. The tracks between Rajahmundry and Visakhapatnam, which were washed out in 2013 and 2014 during Cyclone Helen and Cyclone Hudhud respectively, were also provided with a new bridge. “21 hours traffic block was availed to finish the work, required for passage of flood water to avoid breaches,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-services-set-to-better-post-lockdown/articleshow/75524266.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Goa reopens for business, but some restrictions still remain||PANAJI: From Monday, Goa will be open again for business as the state government lifted most of the curbs that it had placed during the two phases of lockdowns but has warned of strict action if any violations are found. The move to open Goa, while keeping its borders closed and air, rail and road travel banned, comes after the state was classified as a ‘Green Zone’ by the Centre, paving way for over 90% of the services to start operating. Goa had last detected a Covid-19 positive patient on April 3. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said as the country enters into the third phase of lockdown from Monday, the state government while opening up markets and government offices, has also restricted movement of people and vehicles, except for essential or emergency services, between 7pm and 7am. “We don’t want anyone, including vehicles, to be seen on the streets between 7pm and 7am,” he said, adding section 144 will continue to be in force in the state till May 17, when the third phase of the lockdown ends. Sawant also said bars would remain closed. “Wine shops and wholesale liquor shops should close before 6.30pm to avoid movement on the streets,” he said. “Consumption of liquor in public places is banned,” he said. While spas and massage parlours will remain closed, Sawant said that hair-cutting saloons will be allowed to open. Shopping malls and entertainment parks will also be closed, as will all religious places, he said. The chief minister said that persons older than 65 years of age are not allowed to leave the house till the lockdown ends, and children below 10 years of age are also required to stay at home. Though the state allowed liquor outlets to open till 6.30pm, it has decided to continue the ban on sale of paan, tobacco and gutka. Sawant said even small tea stalls, street food joints and eateries along roadsides will be closed till May 17. “Authorities will act against anyone opening a paan shop,” he said, adding that any general stores found selling tobacco, paan and gutka will be shut till May 17. Sawant said shops, except those selling essential commodities, should operate only between 7am and 7pm. All beach shacks and restaurants will remain shut, whether in village panchayat or municipal areas, he said. “We have not given permission to restaurants to open.” Also closed are cinema halls, swimming pools, casinos, river cruises, nightclubs, multiplexes, etc. Public transport like buses, taxis, motorcycle pilots and rickshaw will be allowed to operate, Sawant said, adding that no hospitality service will be allowed except hotels that have been converted into quarantine facilities. He also said that that government offices will start with full capacity but added that any government servant who has a cold, cough or fever should not attend office. He said that private offices are also allowed to function by maintaining the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-reopens-for-business-but-some-restrictions-still-remain/articleshow/75524595.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore district may move back to red zone soon||COIMBATORE: Less than 72 hours after it entered the orange zone, Coimbatore district looks set to move back into the red zone, with new cases surfacing in the past two days. The Union health ministry had on Friday moved the district into the orange zone, as the number of active Covid-19 cases had dropped below 15. However, the number of active cases has now gone up to 12 from 7 on Friday. With the screening of close contacts and family members of the new cases underway, health officials say if four of them test positive before the recovery of the old seven patients, the district would move into the red zone with more than 15 active cases. Earlier, a district that was in the red zone had to remain without any positive cases for 14 days to enter the orange zone. It was the new guidelines that helped the district find a place in the orange zone, despite completing just seven days sans any new cases. As per the revised guidelines, a district would be eligible to be considered a green zone if it didn’t report any fresh cases for 21 days in a raw, compared to the earlier 28 days. However, in a span of two days, the district has seen five new cases and three more containment zones - Union post Office Road in Kavundampalayam, Venkitapuram and Royal Nagar in Saramedu. Chances of the cancer ward at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) getting contaminated or infected are also very high. Health officials are in the process of collecting samples from the close contacts of the new cases. They are nervous about the test results as there is a possibility of contacts of the pregnant woman and the deceased cancer patient testing positive for the virus. A health department official said, “The cancer patient was in CMCH for a week, putting many staff and other patients in close quarters at risk. The pregnant woman has, meanwhile, moved around a lot, including to Podanur. We expect our contact tracing and testing to reveal the source of their infection.” Residents, who just began enjoying a few relaxations in norms, are now worried that moving back into the red zone would mean more restrictions. “Now that we are in the orange zone, free movement of vehicles are allowed from morning to evening, eateries allow takeaway through the day and saloons remain open. This won’t be the case if we move back into the red zone,” said 55-year-old Santhanam, of RS Puram, who was planning to reopen his office in Gandhipuram and visit his elderly parents in Bharathi Colony regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-to-be-re-designatedas-coronavirus-red-zone/articleshow/75523807.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 4, 2020||Goa||State horticulture corp to sell local mangoes by mid-May||Panaji: Mango cravings will soon be satiated despite the limited access locals have to the open market during the ongoing lockdown. The Goa State Horticulture Corporation Ltd (GSHCL) will soon be selling people’s favourite Mancurad, besides other local varieties. “Once we receive the stock of local procurement, we will start selling them along with Alphonso mangoes. Farmers are expected to provide us with the local varieties in the second week of May,” managing director of GSHCL, Sandeep Faldesai said. The GSHCL would usually sell the Alphonso variety of mangoes sourced from Maharashtra. However, the corporation has now started reaching to local mango farmers, who are looking to market their produce within the state. Currently, the shelves of various horticulture outlets across the state are lined with Alphonso mangoes. “We have been getting Alphonso mangoes from Mumbai, but the supply has been very erratic this year. One box is priced at Rs 450 and carries anywhere between a dozen to 15 mangoes per box,” proprietor of a GSHCL outlet in Altinho, Prasad Harlankar said. The boxes arrive only once a week so procuring locally will be a good venture besides allowing ease of conveyance, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-horticulture-corp-to-sell-local-mangoes-by-mid-may/articleshow/75524598.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||HMRL MD: Resolve cable shifting issue||Hyderabad: The long-pending issue of high voltage electrical cables shifting on the Lemon Tree hotel, beside Raidurg metro station was resolved on Sunday in a joint inspection of NVS Reddy, HMRL MD along with senior officers of organisations concerned. HMRL MD advised L&T to change the foundation design of the escalator, elevator & staircase of the Metro entry/exit. He also instructed engineers to quickly construct a special trough to safely enclose the remaining cables. He has directed them to complete the cable shifting works at the earliest. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmrl-md-resolve-cable-shifting-issue/articleshow/75524271.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||U-turn: Shops selling non-essentials, including liquor, can open in Mumbai, Pune||MUMBAI: A day after holding firm on its stand not to relax restrictions in Mumbai and Pune, the Maharashtra government allowed standalone and neighbourhood shops for non-essential items, including liquor, to reopen across the state. The concession applies even in the red zone areas of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), Pune district and the Malegaon township, though not in containment zones. Standalone shops selling essentials have already been functioning. However, private offices in the MMR region and Pune will not be allowed to operate with 33% attendance. A senior official said the rule may be reviewed after a few days. Principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani said, “Liquor shops inside malls, in market complexes, hotels and even restaurants will not be allowed to open. And no such shops will be allowed to reopen in containment zones.” Only five non-essential shops in a lane in MMRAn estimated revenue of Rs 1,200 crore per month comes from the sale of liquor in the state, to which Mumbai and Pune are majority contributors. But while standalone shops across the state can stay open as per new guidelines issued on Sunday, in the Mumbai-Pune region (including Pimpri-Chinchwad) and Malegaon, where Covid-19 cases are very high, there is a limitation of five non-essential-goods shops per lane. Municipal corporations and district authorities have been asked to issue guidelines and regulate timings, depending on local conditions. Retail wine shops will close at 6pm and wholesalers will have to shut shop at 5pm. Also, liquor manufacturing units in rural and urban areas, and industrial townships, barring MMR and Pune region can start work. These shops must function at 50% labour capacity, with thermal screening of all staff and santization of premise every two hours. As per the original order of Saturday, standalone non-essential shops were allowed to reopen across the state, except for the districts mentioned above. The state government on Sunday brought an amendment to the lockdown order to include these areas as well. Also, on Saturday, there was no clarity on whether liquor shops were a part of the nonessential-goods shops. This was cleared on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/u-turn-shops-selling-non-essentials-including-liquor-can-open-in-city-pune/articleshow/75524615.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hundreds told to return by police||Hyderabad/Vijayawada: Trouble broke out at Telangana-Andhra Pradesh borders on Sunday as hundreds of people, mostly migrant labourers attempted to cross over from either side. A huge police contingent on both sides of the borders, however, stopped the people, saying they had no permission to cross over. The police had a hectic time convincing many motorists to return, as the relaxation announced by the Centre was specific in nature and not general. While the borders between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, and AP and Odisha witnessed some anxious moments as motorists lost their cool, borders with states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu remained largely peaceful. Officials clarified that the one-time relaxation given to migrant labour was to be executed under the supervision of states and it did not apply to individuals, whether migrants or the general public, who want to undertake inter-state travel. AP police stopped hundreds of people from Telangana coming on two-wheelers and cars at the border check posts. Only those authorised to cross the borders were permitted. The rest were told to return. Nalgonda police, which controls two main interstate check-posts on Miryalguda-Piduguralla, and Hyderabad-Macherla routes had to handle hundreds of people trying to cross over to AP. “Some are walking while several are on bikes. We are conducting medical checkup of all the migrant workers and sending them across if they are healthy. However, some of them are made to wait there as they are not coming in buses as mentioned in Central guidelines,” said an official from Nalgonda. Bhadradri Kothagudem SP Sunil Dutt told TOI that over 1,000 people from AP including migrant workers have crossed over from checkpoints at Ashwaraopet and Bhadrachalam. “People are coming from different districts including Khammam and Suryapet by using different means of transport. We are conducting health checkup with medical teams and issuing passes to those who do not have any symptoms of ill health. There was no protest of workers on our side of the state border,” Sunil Dutt added. AP director-general of police Gautam Sawang told TOI that shifting of the migrants was being done after consultation between the state governments. He said they have been shifting the migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh stranded in other states as per the prescribed procedure. “One mistake will jeopardise the entire hard work put in for the last 40 days to contain the virus. We need to have proper information about migrant workers and others travelling for emergency reasons. We have not stopped everyone at the border. We have to ensure that from where these people are coming and where they are headed to and proper arrangements have to be made to isolate them for a prescribed period,” he clarified. Earlier, migrant workers stranded in various districts of Telangana took authorisation letters from local officials to travel. The confusion was also created as people came in personal vehicles with permission letters from Telangana officials. AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy appealed to people to stay back as the relaxation was only for migrant workers and not general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-told-to-return-by-police/articleshow/75524268.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi airport: Terminal 3 to handle all flights when you take off after corona shutdown||NEW DELHI: Once commercial passenger flights are allowed again at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), all airlines will initially operate from Terminal 3. The airlines will also be assigned specific entry gates, self check-in machines and check-in bays to avoid crowding. To maximise safety, all luggage will also be passed through disinfection tunnels during both in- and out-bound journeys. TOI was first to report on April 10 that Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has prepared a plan to keep all food, beverage and retail shops open to avoid crowding and use “ultraviolet disinfection tunnels” to sanitise baggage. “We will start with T3 and open other terminals as the traffic picks up,” said a senior official of DIAL, which runs the airport. As per the plan, Vistara and IndiGo airlines will be assigned entry gates 1 and 2 and check-in rows A, B and C while AirAsia India and Air India will use entry gates 3 and 4 and check-in rows D, E and F. SpiceJet and GoAir passengers will get in through gate 5 and check in at rows G and H. All other domestic airlines will also use gate 5 and will have row H for check-in. All international airlines’ passengers will enter T3 using gates 6, 7 and 8 and check in at rows J, K, L and M, the plan states. The entry gates, self check-in machines and the check-in bays will be allocated to ensure smooth flow of passengers from the forecourt into the check-in hall and the security thereafter, it adds. Commercial passenger flights have been suspended across the country since the lockdown has been announced on March 25 to tackle the novel coronavirus pandemic. Only cargo, medical and special flights mostly catering to evacuation of stranded citizens of different countries are permitted by Directorate General of Civil Aviation during the lockdown period. DIAL is preparing stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) for food, beverage and retail shops to ensure social distancing, the plan points out. The operator will promote digital payment and menus at the outlets to minimise human contacts. It will also encourage use of self-ordering kiosks at the food court to cut down on queues. To ensure social distancing, queues will also be aligned for Central Industrial Security Force, which is in charge of the IGIA security, and immigration staff. Personal protective equipment will also be provided wherever required. All queues and seating areas will have social distance markings and sanitisers will be provided to the passengers after both security and immigration procedures. Social distance markings have been made at all transport waiting areas and SOP is being worked out with cab providers for disinfection of vehicles. A similar SOP is also being prepared for the metros and private vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/t3-to-handle-all-flights-when-you-take-off-after-corona-shutdown-/articleshow/75524611.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 4, 2020||Varanasi||Driver flees abandoning suspected corona person||Varanasi: High drama was created in Modh area of Bhadohi district when the driver of an ambulance carrying a Covid-19 suspected person, fled after abandoning the vehicle in the middle of the road on late Saturday night. Modh police outpost in-charge Sunil Kumar Yadav said that the ambulance had met a minor accident and stopped in a market. Some locals gathered there and on becoming aware of the presence of a Covid-19 suspect case inside the ambulance they sought explanation from the driver for stopping the vehicle there. Sensing danger the driver fled the scene. The Covid-19 suspected person also tried to escape but the police stopped him and convinced him to stay inside the vehicle. He was later sent to the district hospital in another ambulance. Yadav said, a local youth had returned from Delhi, where he worked, on foot. However, he was not allowed to enter the village and the CHC Suriyava officials arranged an ambulance to take him to district hospital for screening and sample collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/driver-flees-abandoning-suspected-corona-person/articleshow/75522803.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Man poses as government official in Kolkata, held||KOLKATA: Amid attempts to ensure tight lockdown in the containment zone in Narkeldanga, a man has been arrested for posing as a government official to venture out unnecessarily. The accused, Sandip Gupta (35), claimed he was trying to deliver non-essential items to residents of the Narkeldanga-Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi area when he was nabbed at a naka point. The police are investigating his claims. He joins a list of around a dozen men — most of them arrested by detective department — for using fake documents to drive around the city during the lockdown. According to police, Gupta — a resident of Satin Sen Sarani in Kankurgachhi — was driving on Gas Street when he was stopped by cops around 1pm on Saturday. “He failed to show a permit. During interrogation, we found that he conspired with some others and was posed as a government employee. He had pasted “vehicle on emergency duty” stickers on his car. One of the stickers mentioned that he was on urgent duty for the telecom department. He also displayed a board stating he was on urgent duty for the West Bengal government,” said DC (eastern suburban) Ajoy Prasad. As many as 501 people had been arrested over the last 24 hours for violating lockdown rules. Nine drivers were prosecuted for taking their vehicles out for a spin during lockdown and 110 were booked for not using face masks. The number of people booked or arrested for spitting stood at 53.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-poses-as-govt-official-held/articleshow/75524267.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Jera village tiger dies15 minute’s after being tranquilized||Pilibhit: A five-year-old tiger died 15 minutes after it was tranquilized at Jari village on Sunday evening. While forest officials claimed that the big cat died of earller wounds, some wildlife activists suspect it died due to overdose of tranquilizers.The tiger had strayed out of Mala range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and attacked three people on Jari canal towroad, 1 km from the forest on Friday morning.It had also attacked a team of forest force personnel that had come to drive it back to the reserve.The presence of the tiger had brought agricultural activities to a virtual standstill at Jari village, under Gajraula police station.Since then, a foresters team had been monitoring the elusive big cat's movement by installing camera traps in the area.Unable to drive it back to the forest, a team of veterinary officers, headed by Dr SK Rathaur, a local government veterinary officer, arrived at the village on Sunday in order to tranquilize the tiger and later, release into the wild.The tiger was spotted and tranquilizer darts were fired on it. But the big cat died within 15 minutes after it was tranquilized.Deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said the tiger collapsed during the period it was under medical observation. “The tiger had three wounds in its trachea, as a result of which it died," Khandelwal said.Kaushalendra Singh, a wildlife activist based in Lucknow, said he suspected that the tiger's death was an outcome of overdoze of tranquilizer.Referring to information of forest staff present at the spot during the operation, Singh claimed that the tiger was hit with four darts one after another.Earller, chief conservator of Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, had informed mediapersons that the veterinary team used only two darts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/jera-village-tiger-dies15-minutes-after-being-tranquilized/articleshow/75522987.cms||Keshav Agarwal
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Liquor to be sold today in Dharwad||Dharwad: Dharwad district will see several relaxations in the lockdown, for four days from Monday. The district is in the orange zone, and all the financial activities permitted in the orange zone will commence from Monday. Since Hubballi has two containment areas, the city has not been considered for relaxations in the lockdown, that are given to other parts of the district. The state government has allowed the sale of liquor by retail shops run by CL2 licence holders and MSIL outlets from Monday, subject to certain conditions. Liquor shop owners were busy making preparations to comply with the restrictions on Sunday. There are 87 retail liquor outlets in Dharwad. In Hubballi, only five liquor outlets will be allowed to open. Sale of liquor will be permitted from 9 am to 7 pm. The excise department has directed retail liquor shop owners to ensure that a maximum of five people are allowed inside a shop at a time, and that customers wear masks and stand in queue, maintaining a distance of six feet from each other. Each customer will be given a maximum of 2.3 litres of liquor at a time. The shopowners should put up barricades to ensure that customers enter from one point, and exit from another point. CCTV cameras should be installed to monitor liquor shops, and their footage should be made available to police or excise officials on demand. Dharwad Liquor Dealers’ Associaiton president Jeevan Shetty said that the shopkeepers should ensure that discipline is maintained, and that the police should assist in case of emergencies. The excise department has appointed one guard for every five shops. DC Deepa Cholan said apart from this farming, industries, construction work, road works and commercial activities have been allowed to start in the district, except in Hubballi. The district administration and Hubballi-Dharwad police have extended the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr PC till May 17. The National Highways Authority of India resumed widening the road near the Old SP’s Office Circle in Dharwad, on Saturday. District minister Jagadish Shettar said all the industries in the district, except in Hubballi, producing essential commodities and related to essential services, will be allowed to start their units, but by following safety norms. They have to use only 50 per cent of the workforce, and ensure that the workers are provided food, shelter and other facilities. The joint director of industries will monitor these establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/liquor-to-be-sold-today-in-dharwad/articleshow/75521478.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Faridabad||66 cases in biggest spike in Haryana, six more test +ve in Gurugram||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: In the biggest jump in a day, Haryana saw 66 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, with an overnight spurt in Sonipat, Panipat, Jind and Faridabad. The state’s tally is now 442. In Gurugram, six more people tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 73. With 12 new cases, all of which are linked to Delhi or first contacts of other Covid-19 patients, Faridabad tops the table in Haryana along with Gurugram. Sources said a maximum of 18 new cases have been reported from Sonipat district on Sunday. All the patients have been sent to BPS Medical College and Hospital at Khanpur Kalan. In Panipat, 11 persons, including four journalists, have tested positive. One of the journalists is a resident of Karnal city and the remaining seven include three women who are part of a family in Gokul Dhan colony of Panipat. Inquiries revealed that an asymptomatic woman, who worked at a beauty parlour in Faridabad, had shifted to Panipat to join her sister. Initially, the woman was found to be positive. On Saturday, her family members also tested positive. They have all been shifted to Khanpur Kalan medical college. Six persons tested positive in Fatehabad and Yamunangar. All of them are pilgrims who returned from Nanded. They have been admitted in Covid hospitals. In Jind, six persons, including four woman workers of an anganwadi kendra have tested positive. They were taken to an isolation ward in PGIMS Rohtak. Director general, health services, Haryana, S B Kamboj, said preliminary investigation suggests the women might have acquired infection during a survey in the containment zone. Their family members have been quarantined and the workers are admitted in hospital. Haryana has seen a jump of 146 cases over the past seven days. On April 25, there were 296 cases in the state. There have been five Covid-19 deaths in the state so far. The bulletin released by the health directorate said that 32,583 out of 35,278 people have tested negative so far. Till Sunday, 20,759 persons had completed their quarantine period. Meanwhile, the patients in Gurgaon are undergoing treatment at Sector 9 hospital, said chief medical officer JS Punia. While three people are from Sector 80, one is from Islampur, another a resident of Ardee City in Sector 50, and fourth is a cab driver in Basai Enclave. “We are conducting contact tracing of all positive cases and hence, we are getting more cases. We have increased surveillance in the city and restricted movement too,” said Punia. The health department said it had sent 6,583 samples for testing till now in Gurgaon, including 249 on Sunday. The reports of 451 samples are awaited. Moreover, 82 people have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/66-cases-in-biggest-spike-in-hry-6-more-test-ve-in-city/articleshow/75533892.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Protest erupts in Ramagundam; workers block roads, vehicles||HYDERABAD: Agitated migrant workers on Sunday took to the streets demanding permission to go home. Police had to use mild force to disperse the protesting mob. Hundreds of migrant workers from Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha reached NTPC police station in Ramagundam town in the morning and sought permission to go to their native places.  There are about 5,000 migrant labourers who are on contract work at NTPC project and Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) in Ramagundam, said a Ramagundam police official. As some protesters blocked the Rajiv Rahadari and stopped some vehicles, police used batons to clear the mob. Later, Ramagundam MLA K Chandar, along with police officials, spoke to the workers and assured them that the issue will be discussed in a meeting with revenue and police officials later in the evening. “We have been providing food and shelter for all migrant workers at the camps in NTPC and RFCL. After central government said that migrant workers can go to their native places, some workers came to police station seeking permission to go home. Along with revenue, police officials, discussion was held with managements of NTPC, RFCL to find a practical solution,” the MLA said. “Migrant labourers were assured that the work is commencing from tomorrow and they will also get their salary from the management. We have told them that if they return to their home states, they will have to spend time in quarantine and they also will not have work. If some of them still insist on returning home after two days, necessary arrangements will be made,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-erupts-in-ramagundam-workers-block-roads-vehicles/articleshow/75524273.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrants flood Sabarmati station||AHMEDABAD: Police personnel remained constantly busy throughout Sunday dispersing people and sending them back from the Sabarmati railway station. Migrants continued to pour in because there was another special train for workers scheduled to depart for Muzaffarpur in Bihar at late night. After receiving news about the train set to leave on Sunday evening, migrant workers continued to arrive at the station since morning. Police remained busy sending them back and explaining that they cannot board the train without prior registration and testing. Those who had registered were requested to come to the station in buses deployed by authorities for the purpose. Railway officials said that a train to Agra departed at 2am on Sunday. According to the guidelines, the train can be brought to the station only after the destination station confirms that it has received permission from the respective state government. The departure of train towards Agra was delayed because the permission was received late. Gujarat government had permitted the departure of the train, but the Uttar Pradesh government, which was to receive the passengers, had not sent its consent. Once the permission was received at 11 pm on Saturday, boarding began and the train could leave past midnight. Desperate migrants had already filled 50-odd buses that were lined up at the Sabarmati station on Saturday evening much before the railway authorities allocated a special train for Agra. In order to avoid any crowding, the administration has arranged Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation buses to bring the passengers to the station and they are dropped at the platform. Sabarmati police inspector R H Vala said, “Our responsibility is just to ensure that no stampede takes place because sometime many migrants rush to railway station to board the train. The district collectorate picked them up from their localities and dropped them at the railway station while ensuring social distancing was maintained.” Though the administration claimed to be better prepared, looking at the chaos that took place on Saturday night, the transportation of passengers from the migrants’ colonies to the railway station was not so smooth as claimed by the police officer. Sources in the Western Railway said that the passengers were first informed that the the Muzaffarpur-bound train will come to Sabarmati station at around 6.20pm on Sunday. Later, they were given another call by the district authorities informing them about the rescheduling of the train to 12.30am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrants-flood-sabarmati-station/articleshow/75523883.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Essentials, food given in Malkajgiri||Hyderabad: Commercial staff of Malkajgiri railway station pooled in money and distributed essential groceries like tur dal, aata, oil, sugar, salt, soaps, onions to the sanitation workers on Sunday. The gesture came in the light of hardships being faced by people during lockdown. In addition, biryani packets were distributed to police officials of Malkajgiri, with 80 packets to Malkajgiri police station and 40 packets to Malkajgiri traffic police by the Malkajgiri chicken shops owners association president Upendar Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/essentials-food-given-in-malkajgiri/articleshow/75524275.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||For priests in city, it is time to harness power of prayer||Nagpur: Humanity seeks solace in prayer, in times of despair. A marauding virus has blunted public manifestations of religion and, more than devotees, its purveyors have been affected. With one of India’s richest Hindu shrines— Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati Balaji temple— laying off over 1300 contractual employees, the impact is evident. Nagpur’s priests are no exception to it. “The last outdoor puja I conducted was on March 21. Festival celebrations are muted, weddings have been deferred, and the munj (sacred thread ceremony) muhurtam has come and gone,” rues Shantanu Muli, 33, a priest at Ram Mandir, Ram Nagar. The curbs on public praying are felt across the board, be it in celebration or mourning. “Whenever I head out to perform funeral services, the cops have a common refrain: ‘Jaane waale toh chale gaye, ab aap jaake kya karoge? (The person has already passed away, what is the point in you visiting now?)’” says Vivek Joshi, a 53-year-old priest who does private pujas. “At weddings, there are so many people around to guide the hosts about the rituals. There is hardly anyone to do that at funerals, which is why they need us. The cops do not realize that,” Joshi adds. Salaries for most temple priests are nominal and they have to rely on freelance pujas to eke out a living. “People will not have pujas till the lockdown is over. With no other source of income, I have had to dig deep into my savings,” says Dattparsad Puranik, a priest at Hanuman Mandir, Hill Road. The troubles are unlikely to end even after the lockdown does. “This is not like the usual office work, which may resume smoothly after the lockdown is over. It is highly date-specific and event-based,” reasons Muli. “Devotees are also cash-strapped and in two minds about conducting large-scale pujas,” he adds. The older priests — most of whom have been in the ‘business’ for over 20 years — are finding it especially tough to look for alternative sources of income. The younger ones are trying to reduce their seniors’ burden by asking them not to visit the temples for daily aartis (the only time when the temples are open). Many remain optimistic. “My lifestyle stays the same, irrespective of income. I live simply; shunning greed has always held me in good stead and will continue to do so,” says Ravindra Pandey, priest at Jwala Mata Mandir, Anant Nagar. “Dakshinas (donations) have stopped, but the temple trust is making regular payments. We have been told the virus-induced slowdown is a national loss, not our personal loss,” says Manigandan, who performs prayers at Shri Sarveshwara Devalaya temple, Ram Nagar. “All will be well eventually. We have to believe in the Almighty. Rich or poor — God resides in everyone,” says Pandey. For the priests, it is as good a time as any to practise what they preach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-priests-in-city-it-is-time-to-harness-power-of-prayer/articleshow/75524335.cms||Amit Sampat
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||Kaushambi farmer found dead in field||Prayagraj: A 48-year old farmer was allegedly beaten to death by a group of unidentified persons in Charai village under Charwa police station in Kaushambi district on Sunday. The deceased Sohan Pal was a resident of Chari village. According to police, the man was attacked when he had gone to sleep near the tubewell in his field after dinner on Saturday night On Sunday morning, the farmer was found dead and local residents informed the police. Police had to face pacify the irate family members of the deceased while taking the body for postmortem examination. The family was seeking speedy justice for Pal. The family members also told the police that Pal was being threatened with dire consequences following a property dispute by some persons. They allowed police to take the body after the latter assured them of stern action against those found guilty. Police have detained two persons for quizzing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kaushambi-farmer-found-dead-in-field/articleshow/75522825.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||Dongri man who gave dignity to dead loses life after five hospitals in Mumbai turn him away||MUMBAI: Breathless with depleting oxygen levels, a 52-year-old Dongri man died after allegedly being tossed around from one south Mumbai hospital to another. Calls to 1916, the BMC helpline, yielded no concrete response. Khalid Ali Shaikh passed away early on Saturday, merely four hours after he managed to find a bed at the state-run St George Hospital. Shaikh had dedicated the last five years of his life to giving a dignified burial to the many who died in the city but whose mortal remains could not be taken to their home in Kerala. He headed a committee formed for the purpose. “It is unfortunate that my father couldn't get a chance to fight for his life,” said his son, Shahbaz, adding that they spent two-and-half hours going from hospital to hospital in a taxi on Friday. They went to five hospitals, of which two tested his father’s oxygen levels. No one was willing to admit him despite his depleting oxygen levels. The deceased was a diabetic and was suffering from fever and weakness for the past four days, which worsened around 8 pm on Friday. Shahbaz said they hailed a taxi and headed to Prince Aly Khan Hospital in Mazgaon, where his father’s pulse and oxygen saturation levels were checked. “They said his symptoms looked like that of Covid-19 and referred us to H N Reliance Hospital,” he said. H N Reliance offered an ambulance to take him to a dedicated Covid hospital in Marol. They then headed to HN Reliance Hospital in Charni Road, where once again his oxygen levels and pulse rate was measured. Since the hospital is not a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, it offered to arrange for an ambulance and send Shaikh to SevenHills in Marol, which is a dedicated Covid hospital. A hospital spokesperson said that the son, who was counselled by the doctors and explained everything, was unwilling to take his father all the way to Marol. “He was breathless already and looked fragile. I didn’t want to make him travel all the way,” the son said. With an elevated pulse rate of 137 against a normal of 90 to 100 and oxygen saturation level of 89% against a normal of 90% to 100%, they headed to Saifee Hospital in Charni Road. By now, 40 minutes had passed. The person manning the BMC helpline told them he would get back in 45 minutes with the status of beds in hospitals. The family claimed that at Saifee they were not even allowed inside. “My father became unconscious inside the cab. I was allowed to speak with the doctor-on-duty over the phone. She told me that all their ventilators were engaged. She said as his respiratory ratio was dropping, he would need life-support immediately and suggested that we try for a bed in Bombay Hospital,” said the son. He then decided to go to Masina Hospital, where he said they were not allowed to go past the security cabin. “We finally went to Bombay Hospital, where the guard at the emergency department came out and told us that there were no doctors,” the son said. A spokesperson from the hospital said that they should have gone to the 24-hour casualty. “Bombay Hospital is running a Covid ward. How can there be no doctors?” the spokesperson said. A Saifee Hospital spokesperson said they would look into the records and get back. The patient was finally taken to St George Hospital, where a bed was made available. “My father was immediately given oxygen support but a staffer told us they could be running out of oxygen,” said Shahbaz. His father was declared dead around 2.30 am, just when the family sat down to have their meal. “We still haven’t received his Covid-19 report. We don't know if he was infected but we have home quarantined ourselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dongri-man-who-gave-dignity-to-dead-loses-life-after-5-hosps-turn-him-away/articleshow/75524600.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Corona death toll in Bengal touches 50||Kolkata: With nine deaths in the past 48 hours — two on Sunday and seven on Saturday — the number of Covid-19 deaths in the state has touched 50. On Thursday, the state had indicated a revised mandate for the death audit panel that had examined 105 deaths of Covid-positive patients and submitted a set of recommendations for the doctors to adhere to. A senior health advisor to the state said, “Attending doctors will now follow the recommendations of the audit panel and certify whether a death was because of Covid or co-morbidities. The expert committee will no longer audit all deaths but examine random samples from hospitals treating infected patients for further epidemiological studies.” TOI on Thursday had reported that state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had outlined the Covid death reporting recommendations by doctors in Bengal, saying, “Doctors know the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. They need to record the immediate cause of death and the antecedents and the underlying cause of death. But the expert panel feels this is not enough. They want frontline doctors to keep a detailed timeline of every case, from the onset of symptoms to the death.” “This is a welcome move from the government. At best an audit committee can study and assess the deaths for epidemiological purposes and for giving valuable input in preventing such deaths,” said source st Swasthya Bhawan. The health advisor said the committee has analyzed the deaths and laid out its recommendations for the doctors to follow. “It will henceforth collect samples from hospitals for examination and give necessary suggestions to health department if there are new findings,” he added. At seven, the Covid death toll in Bengal was in single digit till mid-April. “It is a pandemic and fight against an unseen enemy. Some deaths will happen unfortunately. But what needs to be seen is that we don’t let death rate go up exponentially. I am sure the state is working hard on this,” said a senior doctor of SSKM. On Sunday, two doctors of a private hospital off Bypass tested positive. While one doctor is undergoing treatment at the same hospital and his condition is stable, the other one is in home isolation. The hospital has put 12 other healthworkers under quarantine. Some of their samples could be sent for testing. A senior police officer and a civil servant are also among the fresh cases reported on Sunday. In the past fortnight, the state has scaled up testing to reach 22,915 tests on Sunday. So far, 199 patients have been cured and sent home, 40 alone on Saturday from the MR Bangur Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-death-toll-in-bengal-touches-50/articleshow/75524274.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Man bites wife’s nose as she threatens to leave||Bareilly: A man in Lakhimpur Kheri district chew off wife’s nose after she threatened to leave home on Saturday evening. The woman was living separately from her husband for nearly six months due to some dispute and returned home on Wednesday. On Saturday evening, both of them had a quarrel and the man attacked her and ran away. Police have registered an FIR in the matter. The incident was reported from Mudiya village in Neemgaon area where victim Sarojini Devi, 34, was allegedly attacked by her husband Moolchand. Sarojini was convinced to return home with her husband by local village head and a senior resident. However, Moolchand still misbehaved with Sarojini and raised question about her character. On Saturday evening, Sarojini decided to return to her maternal home and Moolchand took it as an insult. He thrashed Sarojini and later chew off her nose. After the incident, Sarojini informed the police and filed an FIR against her husband at Neemgaon police station. “We have booked the accused under IPC section 326 [voluntarily causing grievous hurt] and he will be held soon. The victim has been admitted to the hospital and her condition is stable," said Rajkumar, the SHO of Neemgaon police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-bites-wifes-nose-as-she-threatens-to-leave/articleshow/75522993.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 4, 2020||Agra||Woman dies in isolation ward, second in Mathura||Agra: A 55-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus in Mathura on Saturday night. This was the second death reported in the district due to Covid-19 infection. Almost week ago, a 50-year-old woman had died of the infection, but her report had confirmed her positive status hours after her death. Besides, one more person, a 48-year-old man, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the number of such cases in the district to 28. Since April 27, a fresh case is being reported in the district every day. Doctors attributed the rise in cases to lack of proper contact tracing. According to health officials, the woman patient was admitted at the Army Hospital after she complained of cold and high fever. Health official took her sample for Covid-19 on April 28 and after receiving her report, which revealed the infection, she was shifted to the isolation ward of KD Hospital. Her condition started deteriorating on Saturday night, and she was immediately put on a ventilator but could not survive. The woman’s son, who is posted in Vishakhpatnam, has been informed about her demise. The first Covid-19 positive case in the district was reported on April 6 and since then, the number has been rising. District magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra has tightened the lockdown restrictions after rising number of positive cases in the city. He has directed officials to focus more on hotspot areas and do more rapid sampling to find out the extent of the spread of the disease in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-dies-in-isolation-ward-second-in-mathura/articleshow/75522999.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||HNBGU hosts webinar on Covid-19 impacts||Dehradun: The Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal Central University (HNBGU), Government Post Graduate College in Gopeshwar, and Aerosol Air Quality and Climate Research Society jointly hosted a two-day-long webinar on effects of Covid-19 on environment and economy. The webinar, that concluded on Sunday, saw participation of speakers from universities and colleges from across India and from abroad as well. During the webinar, they spoke on the impact of Covid-19 on air quality, climate change, and environment. Speaking on the impact of Covid-19 on air quality, Ranjit Kumar, assistant professor, department of Chemistry at Dayalbagh Educational Institute of Agra, said that after analysing the data collected from around six cities of India, it was found out that vehicular emission was the major reason for pollution in India. “In our recent study, we have found out that vehicles are responsible for maximum pollution in cities. Our research has suggested that India must use periodic lockdowns, may be for smaller duration like a couple of days, to reduce pollution,” he added. Another speaker Rajan Sudesh Ratna, economic affairs officer in South and South-West Office of United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UN-ESCAP), New Delhi, delivered a speech on “socio-economic impact assessment of Covid-19 on South Asia”. “IMF estimates that the global economy will shrink by 3% which is equivalent to around 9 trillion US dollar. Growth forecast for India in 2020 is 1.9%. Thus, focussed policy interventions are necessary for attracting investments and technology, becoming part of higher value chain, reforming social and agriculture sector, infrastructure and financing,” he added. Professor Alok Sagar Gautam from HNBGU informed that speakers include doctors, academicians, virologists, and scientists. A total of 130 faculty and research scholars participated in the webinar in which more than 30 papers were presented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgu-hosts-webinar-on-covid-19-impacts/articleshow/75523021.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 4, 2020||Gurgaon||66 cases in biggest spike in Haryana, six more test +ve in Gurugram||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: In the biggest jump in a day, Haryana saw 66 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, with an overnight spurt in Sonipat, Panipat, Jind and Faridabad. The state’s tally is now 442. In Gurugram, six more people tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 73. With 12 new cases, all of which are linked to Delhi or first contacts of other Covid-19 patients, Faridabad tops the table in Haryana along with Gurugram. Sources said a maximum of 18 new cases have been reported from Sonipat district on Sunday. All the patients have been sent to BPS Medical College and Hospital at Khanpur Kalan. In Panipat, 11 persons, including four journalists, have tested positive. One of the journalists is a resident of Karnal city and the remaining seven include three women who are part of a family in Gokul Dhan colony of Panipat. Inquiries revealed that an asymptomatic woman, who worked at a beauty parlour in Faridabad, had shifted to Panipat to join her sister. Initially, the woman was found to be positive. On Saturday, her family members also tested positive. They have all been shifted to Khanpur Kalan medical college. Six persons tested positive in Fatehabad and Yamunangar. All of them are pilgrims who returned from Nanded. They have been admitted in Covid hospitals. In Jind, six persons, including four woman workers of an anganwadi kendra have tested positive. They were taken to an isolation ward in PGIMS Rohtak. Director general, health services, Haryana, S B Kamboj, said preliminary investigation suggests the women might have acquired infection during a survey in the containment zone. Their family members have been quarantined and the workers are admitted in hospital. Haryana has seen a jump of 146 cases over the past seven days. On April 25, there were 296 cases in the state. There have been five Covid-19 deaths in the state so far. The bulletin released by the health directorate said that 32,583 out of 35,278 people have tested negative so far. Till Sunday, 20,759 persons had completed their quarantine period. Meanwhile, the patients in Gurgaon are undergoing treatment at Sector 9 hospital, said chief medical officer JS Punia. While three people are from Sector 80, one is from Islampur, another a resident of Ardee City in Sector 50, and fourth is a cab driver in Basai Enclave. “We are conducting contact tracing of all positive cases and hence, we are getting more cases. We have increased surveillance in the city and restricted movement too,” said Punia. The health department said it had sent 6,583 samples for testing till now in Gurgaon, including 249 on Sunday. The reports of 451 samples are awaited. Moreover, 82 people have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/66-cases-in-biggest-spike-in-hry-6-more-test-ve-in-city/articleshow/75524272.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Graves lead to grave fear of Covid||Vadodara: Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is in a Catch-22 situation with Covid — both from positive cases as well as those who died from the virus infection. On one hand, the civic body is running out of space for newer burials at the existing site, while, on the other it is meeting stiff resistance from residents around the new site it has identified at Karelibaug. VMC had begun burials in the Matariya Kabrashtan, while residents of nearby societies opposed the move vehemently expressing their grave fear of the disease spreading from the graveyard. However, the civic body along with local leaders somehow managed to convince them that the deep graves sealed all risks of the virus spreading from the site. VMC corporator Farid Lakhajiwala said that the misconception and fear among the people are leading to the protests. When the first Covid deaths were reported in the city, VMC earmarked Matariya Kabrastan and Khaswadi crematorium for last rites of the Covid victims. These two sites were even earlier used during the swine flu infection. “The graveyard has been in use for decades now and no society in its proximity ever objected to anything. But the recent fears of Covid-19 spreading from infected bodies have propelled them to agitate. However, they later relented and allowed burials to take place there,” said Lakhajiwala. But after it ran out of space there, VMC then decided to conduct burials at the Tajgira Kabrasthan, another site owned by the Matariya Kabrastan trust. “The Matariya Kabrasthan has space for four five more burials only. The trust suggested us an alternative land for the burial. According to the trust, the land is owned by it and is earmarked for a graveyard. If this is okayed, we will use the land,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. Alarm bells were again pressed here when the VMC started work to clear the land of vegetation and dig some graves on the Tajgira graveyard. Residents of nearby areas raised objections and even made representations to the administration against its use for Covid victims. They held demonstrations and even claimed that the land was privately held. A VMC functionary said that the objections were being raised by people staying across a rivulet that flows along the boundary of the graveyard land. “There are no settlements adjoining the graveyard,” he said. Dr Patel was adamant that if the land has been reserved for a graveyard, the VMC will go ahead with burials there. “If needed, we will use provisions of the Epidemic Act against those creating trouble,” he warned. Activist Zuber Gopalani said he was trying to resolve the issue without any confrontations. “If we are asked to arrange for another space, we will do so. We just need to ensure the dignity of those who died,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/graves-lead-to-grave-fear-of-covid/articleshow/75522748.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 more trains leave with 7,400 workers||Gandhinagar: Six more trains carrying around 7,400 migrant workers left for three states from Gujarat on Sunday. The trains left for Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department said that while three trains left from Surat, two trains left from Ahmedabad and one train left from Palanpur. “We have been streamlining the movement of labourers in coordination with the railways and other state governments. On Sunday, three trains left for Odisha from Surat, while one train from Ahmedabad left for Agra, another train from Ahmedabad left for Patna and one train left for Uttar Pradesh from Palanpur,” the official said. It has been decided that trains will run on a point-to-point basis and adequate armed security will be provided at departing stations as well as in the trains. Mittra held a review meeting with collectors and asked them to prepare a list of people to be sent by train over the next seven days. The host states are being provided the list of passengers and their phone numbers well in advance. “The trains are being run at half capacity to maintain social distancing norms,” the official said. Commenting on some of the practical problems being faced, Mittra said that collectors have been asked to counsel the labourers beforehand so that they do not call up other persons who are not registered to the station to create a rush. “We are also doing hundred per cent screening to ensure that only asymptomatic persons are allowed to board,” he said.  A certificate of medical screening is sent to the host state in advance. “We want to ensure that there is no spread of the virus as vast numbers of labourers are moving,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-more-trains-leave-with-7400-workers/articleshow/75523881.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharna at Tolichowki for spl trains, services||Hyderabad: On hearing about special trains that ferried thousands to their native places, nearly 800 migrant workers staged a protest at Tolichowki on Sunday, demanding similar transport arrangements. The workers, who are residing at Tolichowki, Banjara Hills, Humayun Nagar, Asif Nagar and Golconda stunned the authorities with their sudden protest. Police were seen pacifying the agitators through the public address system. The workers are from states like Uttar Pradesh , Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Apart from the construction workers, the crowd also includes hawkers. “ I was asked to furnish my details to police. A government official, who supplied food to us, said transport arrangements will be made for us. It has been a week since and there was no response from officials who collected our details. Getting food has now become a big challenge for us. I used to earn around Rs 500 per day,” said Upendra Kumar, a worker from Jharkhand. A person representing a group of 30 workers, said that they want to immediately return to their home states and they don’t required any food , “We are around 30 to 35 people staying in cramped spaces. We don’t want food but we urge the government to help us reach our home towns. All us want to go to Bihar.” According to police, the situation came under control within an hour. “We took the details of the workers. They did not protest much,” said Chandrashekar Reddy, circle inspector of Golconda Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharna-at-tolichowki-for-spl-trains-services/articleshow/75524276.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Libraries and museums await nod to open||Panaji: Goa may have been declared a green zone, but scholars and heritage lovers will have to wait until the state gives the state central library, museum and other historical monuments the green signal to open. “The library staff will continue to report to duty, but activities like book lending will not happen. Once we have government orders to open, all other libraries under us will also open,” curator of the Goa State Central Library Carlos Fernandes said. The storehouse of knowledge had shut it study rooms in mid-March and gradually closed its doors for readers looking to rent, return or refer to books. The 10 other libraries under it — town, taluka and district — also followed suit. On March 18, the Goa State Museum that had also stopped allowing visitors in its premises. They now await orders from the authorities to resume. “Once we receive the central government advisory to restart visits, we shall open the museum. Currently, the staff is only involved in doing routine administrative work,” museum director Radha Bhave said. The 21 monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which include seven world heritage sites are also off limits. “We will know the status on Monday. For now, no decision has been communicated to us from the Delhi office. After receipt of orders only we will take a decision to open up,” superintending archaeologist, ASI, K Amarnath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/libraries-and-museums-await-nod-to-open/articleshow/75524604.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||Kitchen & roof gardening fill up lockdown days||Prayagraj: For many Prayagraj residents the lockdown enforced in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic is an opportune time for developing hobbies. Of the many interests which are drawing people, rooftop gardening seems to be one of the popular ones. With too much time on their hands, residents are resorting to planting saplings on their terrace as a hobby. Rajapur resident SD Pandey, who took to gardening during the lockdown, said that he had been planning to plant some saplings since the last three months, but didn’t get the time until now. “I finally got the time to take up gardening and plant my own rooftop garden because of the lockdown. I started collecting pots of different sizes and sowed seeds of vegetables in them,” added Pandey. He said that because of the summer heat, he takes care of his plants early morning and in the evening. His rooftop garden is lush with plants of capsicum, lady finger, brinjal, gourd, coriander, mint and tomato. Old City resident Ravi Kumar said that his liking for gardening takes up most of his free time ever since the lockdown was announced on March 23. “I had all this free time and I was looking for something constructive to do. I then got the idea to use my terrace to cultivate a small kitchen garden. I have been growing spinach, bittergourd, flat beans, okra, capsicum and green chillies,” said Kumar. He also has a word of advice for amateur gardeners like him. “Use large and deep pots as heat up quickly and do not drain water too fast,” he added. City-based agricultural expert Manoj Srivastava said, “The availability of advanced and hybrid seeds has undoubtedly made rooftop farming easy for people interested in growing organic vegetables on like rooftops and terraces.” “Rooftop gardens also help in bringing down the temperature in the house by at least a degree,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kitchen-roof-gardening-fill-up-lockdown-days/articleshow/75522872.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Sonu Dangar’s aide gives police the slip||Rajkot: Ashok Boricha, member of notorious history-sheeter Sonu Dangar gang, gave police the slip when the cops raided a farm in Luvara village of Savarkundla taluka in Amreli district on Saturday night. The police, however, nabbed two aides of Boricha. The police raided the farm as they had received a tip-off that Boricha had come there to celebrate his birthday with a liquor party. “We recovered two empty bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and five cans of beer from the spot from where we nabbed Sanjay Belam (30) and Mahesh Rakhaiya (37). We also seized five cellphones, a country made pistol, a 12 bore gun and a cartridge from the farm,” said R K Karmata, sub-inspector with Amreli local crime branch. The police booked Boricha, Shanti Boricha, Ranu Boricha and Vanraj Varu and four unidentified persons who had got a whiff of the police action and had made good their escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sonu-dangars-aide-gives-police-the-slip/articleshow/75523039.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Surgeries resume at private hospitals in Kolkata under stricter watch||KOLKATA: After a Covid 19-induced break, surgeries have resumed across the city’s private hospitals with stricter precautions to prevent transmission. Hospitals will now be observing patients lining up for surgeries for 24 hours, during which they will be screened for Covid-19 and their swab samples collected for tests. Till the reports arrive, the patients will be treated as Covid-19 positive and healthworkers will be in full PPE gear in their vicinity. Some have already resumed surgeries and others will have patients going under the knife from Monday. While Woodlands and Peerless hospitals have started conducting surgeries, others are gearing up for the same from this week. Fortis Hospital has set up a six-bed screening bay for patients requiring surgery. Each will be tested and shifted to cabins once the reports arrive. “They will be treated as Covid-19 positive till the report rules it out. These patients will be kept separate from the rest and our healthworkers will adopt all safety norms,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Woodlands Hospital — that resumed surgeries last week — has been admitting patients to a ‘screening arena’ with a dozen beds and getting them tested for Covid-19. Once the reports come negative (usually in 12 hours), they are moved to cabins. “We are conducting around 4-5 surgeries a day — about half the usual number,” said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. AMRI Hospitals, too, plans to resume full-fledged surgeries by the middle of the week. It’s Covid-19 taskforce will meet on Monday to decide on a standard operating procedure for surgeries. “We have started small procedures and will now resume normal surgical procedures. But they must be preceded by a new set of precautionary norms. Each patient will be tested for Covid-19 and our healthworkers will be on guard till the patients are discharged,” said an AMRI spokesperson. Surgeries will resume at Medica Superspecialty Hospital on Monday with a mandatory Covid-19 screening. “To begin with, the hospital will conduct just 10% of the number of surgeries it usually does,” said chairperson Alok Roy. “ Peerless Hospital started conducting surgeries last week and has already done around 14. Unlike other hospitals, Peerless is testing only those with symptoms. Resumption of surgeries is a major step towards normalizing health services, felt Basu. “There were two major barriers that made surgeries difficult. First, we couldn’t test every patient and since 80% of Covid-19 positives are asymptomatic, it was risky. With the ICMR having changed the testing rule, there’s no obstacle now. Secondly, the time to get a test report has now come down to 12 hours, making it easy to get every patient screened fairly quickly,” said Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surgeries-resume-at-private-hosps-under-stricter-watch/articleshow/75524277.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Student duped of Rs 3 lakh while trying to adopt a pet dog||HYDERABAD: A degree student was duped to the tune of Rs 3 lakh in his eagerness to adopt a husky, a dog breed, after seeing a post on social media. Fraudsters asked him to pay several charges towards adopting the canine. Only after weeks, the youngster realised he was cheated when neither the dog arrived nor the fraudster picked up his calls. Vishal (name changed), a degree second-year student and resident of Sainikpuri, was looking forward to adopting a husky when he stumbled upon a post on Facebook Marketplace. “The person posted ‘Husky up for adoption for free’ claimed to be from Kerala. The fraudster asked him to initially pay Rs 5,000 for transporting the dog from Kerala to Hyderabad,” Rachakonda ACP, cybercrime, S Harinath said. Once Vishal paid the amount, the fraudster asked him to pay insurance for the dog, saying it is a rare breed. Thinking the husky dogs are expensive to breed, he paid the amount. “The fraudster asked for more money citing various charges under the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules. When the victim refused to pay, the fraudster allegedly threatened saying he will file a case against the victim under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” said the ACP. The victim paid Rs 3 lakh towards various charges in phases. After that, the fraudster said the dog would arrive in April. The dog did not show up and Vishal realised he was cheated. He tried to call the pet owner, who remained unreachable. “This is first of its kind fraud we have come across. Usually on social media, people get lured and cheated buying second-hand electronic items or vehicles. This is the first time, someone from the city was cheated on the pretext of pet adoption,” ACP Harinath said. A case under Sec-420 of IPC and sections of IT Act was registered by Rachakonda cybercrime police on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-duped-of-rs-3l-while-trying-to-adopt-a-pet-dog/articleshow/75524292.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Suspected Covid-19 patient dies in Shahjahanpur quarantine ward||Bareilly: A 55-year-old patient who was admitted in the quarantine ward of the Shahjahanpur district hospital on Saturday, died on Sunday before results of his swab sample sent for Covid-19 test could arrive. The resident of Piproula village in Kaanth area was admitted after he exhibited covid symptoms like breathlessness and chest pain. Family members of the deceased have been advised to stay at home. The dead body will be handed over to them once the test report arrives.Chief medical superintendent Dr M P Gangwar told TOI, “The man died few hours after he was admitted to hospital. We are waiting for his test report. The deceased was a farmer and didn’t have any travel history. His condition suggested he was suffering from a pre-existing illness, but there were no test reports available with the family. We have sent his swab sample for testing as a precautionary measure, as he may have contracted the virus from someone.”At Powayan town in the district, a 58-year-old woman was admitted to the quarantine ward, after she appeared for treatment at the community health centre. Claiming the woman has never left the village over the past two months, her family created a ruckus when she was admitted, but their demand that she be allowed to return home was turned down, and the health department is in the process of sending her swab sample for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suspected-covid-19-patient-dies-in-shahjahanpur-quarantine-ward/articleshow/75523016.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Two fresh cases reported in Sambhal; three Jamaatis among five discharged||Bareilly: Three Tablighi Jamaati members, all residents of Tamil Nadu, were among the five people who were discharged over the past 24 hours in Sambhal after their second consecutive report came negative for Covid-19.At the same time, two fresh positive cases were reported in the district. Now, the tally in Sambhal has risen to 24. So far, one person has died while five have been discharged in the district.Meanwhile, two persons have tested positive in adjoining Moradabad district.Sambhal’s fresh cases include an 11-year-old boy and a 41-year-old man. The boy’s father and two sisters have already tested positive and placed under quarantine. Both new patients hail from Nai Sarai, a hotspot.Covid-19 rapid action force in-charge in Sambhal, Dr Neeraj Sharma, told TOI, “The man who tested positive is the cousin of a shopkeeper who has already tested positive and is under quarantine. Both live in Nai Sarai, where the Tablighi Jamaati members had stayed at a mosque.”Health officials said that the boy is the son of the man who had given shelter to Jamaatis for a few days. The entire family has already been quarantined.On the other hand, the health officials were relieved after the second consecutive report of two patients – a 35-year-old and a 30-year-old, both residents of Nai Sarai – came negative on Saturday evening and they were discharged, The three Jamaatis were discharged on Sunday."Now, total number of active patients in Sambal is 18,” Sharma said.In Moradabad, on Sunday two fresh cases – a man and a women -- tested positive, adding to the tally that has now reached to 115. Both are residents of Nawabpura, a hotspot. Besides, six patients were discharged from two quarantine centres of Moradabad, the district hospital and Teerthanker Mahaveer University, said chief medical officer, Dr MC Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-fresh-cases-reported-in-sambhal-three-jamaatis-among-five-discharged/articleshow/75523027.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||Sewa Bharti distributes ‘gamchhas’||Prayagraj: Volunteers of Sewa Bharti, a wing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday started distributing gamchhas as alternative to protective masks among the needy in the city. Taking cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address where he underscored the use of affordable gamchhas as protecteve gear against coronavirus, Sewa Bharti volunteers distributed them in at least 300 underprivileged pockets of Prayagraj. Mahanagar president of Sewa Bharati, Sujeet Singh, said, “After 20,000 gamchhas arrived from Jalalpur to Ambedkar Nagar on Sunday, we began the distribution. The organisation will give out gamchhas in Trans Ganga, Trans Yamuna and Kaushambi areas on May 6.” On Sunday, around 350 hawkers were given gamchhas by the organisation at Subhash Crossing and Balson Crossing. Home-guards are also among the target beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sewa-bharti-distributes-gamchhas/articleshow/75522845.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||Max arrests for lockdown breach in Dhoomanganj||Prayagraj: The maximum number of arrests for alleged violation of lockdown guidelines were made in Dhoomanganj area of the city between March 23 — when the first phase of lockdown was enforced — and April 25, according to police data. On the other hand, the lowest number of arrests were made in Attarsuiya area. With 852 arrests, 169 FIRs were lodged in 13 police stations against those found defying lockdown breach. According to the data released by district police on Monday, while 284 arrests were made in Dhoomanganj for the crime, 169 persons were arrested in Khuldabad, 78 in Mutthiganj, 61 in Shahganj, 54 in Kareli, 44 in Cantonment, 34 in Georgetown, 33 in Colonelganj, 30 in Civil Lines, 27 in Shivkuti, 15 in Kydganj, 13 in Kotwali and only two in Attarsuiya. As far as number of FIRs registered goes, the most complaints were filed in Mutthiganj at 35, followed by Dhoomanganj (33), Shivkuti (26), Khuldabad (16), Cantonment (14), Georgetown (13), Civil Lines (13), Colonelagnj (12), Kydganj (9) , Kareli (8), Kotwali (6), Shahganj (6), and Attarsuiya (2). SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Ppolice have adopted strict measures to enforce lockdown norms in both rural and urban areas. Violators booked under appropriate sections and sent behind the bars.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/max-arrests-for-lockdown-breach-in-dhoomanganj/articleshow/75522885.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Special trains to bring in commodities||Margao: The South Western Railway (SWR) has introduced Parcel Express special trains between Goa and Shalimar and from Howrah to Goa to transport essential commodities. While parcels can be loaded at all permitted stations en route, loading of parcels at other stations will be allowed depending on demand, a SWR press note said. As there is no minimum limit of load or goods to be carried, small consignments can also be transported, the note said. The train will leave for Shalimar on May 4 and arrive on May 6. From Shalimar the train will leave on May 7 and arrive at Vasco on May 9. The special from Howrah will leave on May 5 and arrive on May 7. The starting and ending point for the Shalimar special trains will be Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-trains-to-bring-in-commodities/articleshow/75524608.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Options locked out, thieves steal milk||Ahmedabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of Gandhinagar Police on Sunday held two men for stealing crates full of milk and curd packets from various areas of the state capital. The action was taken after four complaints were filed with two police stations of Gandhinagar about milk and milk products being stolen during the lockdown. Police officials said that though the crime may look minor, it created a lot of problems for Gandhinagar citizens. The milk theft forced some citizens to travel much farther from home than usual to get milk or curd. LCB officials said on Sunday morning they got an input that the accused were at Randheja Crossroads in an autorickshaw which they used to ferry milk crates. A team led by sub-inspector V K Rathod of the LCB nabbed two of the three accused. The arrested men have been identified as Satish Thakor, 22, a resident of Fuletra village in Kadi taluka in Mehsana and Dipak Raval, 20, a resident of Jognimata no Vas in Randheja. The third accused, Bhadresh Thakor, of Gandhinagar, managed to flee. The arrested accused told the cops that Bhadresh planned the theft because he earlier worked with a dairy in Gandhinagar and knew the delivery timings and spots. The accused stole 15 to 20 crates every morning, earning Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 daily. LCB officials said that the accused settled on milk during the lockdown as they could not manage to steal other valuable stuff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/options-locked-out-thieves-steal-milk/articleshow/75523878.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Many make beeline to rly stn, stopped by police||Hyderabad: The special train to Jharkhand on Friday, has raised hopes of hundreds of migrant workers, many of whom made efforts to reach Secunderabad railway station in a bid to get home. However, police personnel in the city cut short the workers’ movement to the station and sent them back to their shelters.  North Zone DCP Kalmeshwar Shingenwar said that migrant workers from various places around Secunderabad have been making attempts to reach the railway station with a hope to catch a train to their native towns. “The workers are attempting to get the station mostly during night time or in the wee hours of the morning. A majority are seen walking towards the station. Our men are stopping them and after convincing them that passengers trains are not operating, we are sending them back. Local police are noting down their details before sending them back,” Shingenwar said. On Sunday, more than 60 interstate passes were issued, mostly for businessmen from other states, who were stranded in Secunderabad. The passes were issued after the applicants provided details of passengers and their vehicles. Shortly after the announcement of extension of the lockdown, there were long queues at SR Nagar police station. On Sunday, more than 200 people including students and some private employees approached the police station seeking passes to go home. Hundreds of students from Andhra Pradesh wanted passes to travel home. “Most of the applicants are from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. After collecting all the necessary details, the applications were sent to joint CP’s office,” SR Nagar inspector Murali Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-make-beeline-to-rly-stn-stopped-by-police/articleshow/75524281.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Labourer’s disfigured body found||Rajkot: The body of a 35-year-old labourer was found from the bank of Machhu River in Wankaner of Morbi district on Sunday morning.The deceased was identified as Hasmukh Mandaviya, a resident of Navapara locality in Wankaner. “Mandaviya’s identity was ascertained by his younger brother Nitin with the help of clothes the deceased had worn. Mandaviya’s face was badly smashed with stones,” said H N Rathod, inspector with Wankaner city police station. “We are investigating whether the deceased had any enmity with anyone or had an extra-marital relationship which might have become the reason for the crime,” added Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourers-disfigured-body-found/articleshow/75523058.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana workers returning home may ease manpower woes||HYDERABAD: The state control room has been receiving several calls from Telangana workers in from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh , expressing a desire to come home. The exodus of migrant workers to their respective home states was threatening to paralyse construction, industrial, agriculture and other sectors due to shortage of manpower. Now,the control room for migrants has been receiving thousands of calls from unskilled and semi-skilled labourers in other states. “We are receiving thousands of calls from labourers who had gone to other states for work. They want to return. They have booked vehicles. We are taking details, including vehicle number, and their personal details. Passes would be sent online and on WhatsApp,” an employee at the call centre said. Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy said: “The government is planning to utilise the workforce returning to Telangana in various sectors in lieu of gap created by exodus of migrant labour.” The minister has directed National Academy of Construction officials to be prepared with crash-courses to boost the confidence of workers to join work in Telangana, after a few days rest. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders to district collectors with instructions regarding smooth passage of stranded persons to their home states after conducting tests and issuing certificates that they were free from Covid-19 symptoms.“All district collectors are directed to make arrangements at inter-state border check posts for stranded persons who wish to leave for their native state. A joint team, with representatives of revenue,police departments and a medical officer, shall be positioned at a convenient place two to three kilometres before the check post to screen stranded persons and issue medical certificates,” Kumar stated in his orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-returning-home-may-ease-manpower-woes/articleshow/75524294.cms||Roushan Ali
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||Migrants in Maharashtra pay through nose for medical certificates, travel home||MUMBAI: Ajay Tiwari, who used to work in a denim factory in Saki Naka, is desperate to return to his hometown in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district. But he is down to his last Rs 150 after shelling out money for a medical certificate. He filled an application to return home with the local police but the mandatory medical certificate cost him a steep Rs 350. “Private doctors are charging Rs 400-500 for a medical certificate which says we don’t have symptoms. We went in a group, so the cost was reduced to Rs 350,” said Tiwari. With no public hospital nearby, he had few options. In other areas, charges range from Rs 150 to Rs 400. The 32-year old daily wager was not even paid his March wages and had just Rs 2,000 left when the lockdown began. “I filled the application, but I don’t have the money left to go home,” he says, dejectedly. With migrant trains unlikely to begin from Mumbai anytime soon, road journeys home are currently the only option. Initially, shramik special trains will be run from Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati (rural) and MMR outskirts. Migrants in Maharashtra have to pay for their own way home, according to the government’s rules. They have to organize themselves into groups, apply to the police or collector, and make their own travel arrangements. State energy minister Nitin Raut from Congress has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking financial support for those travelling by Shramik special trains. On Sunday, Thackeray said he had requested the Centre to waive off the railway ticket charges for migrants. He said the workers have been rendered unemployed due to the lockdown and may not have money to return home. Thackeray added that the state government has been providing food to over five lakh stranded workers for the last 40 days and will continue to do so. The first private bus that left from Mumbai for Jalor in Rajasthan on Sunday evening cost a mind-boggling Rs 1 lakh. The 25 migrants on board paid Rs 4,000 each to cover a distance of 800km. Usually, the rate is Rs 1,200-Rs 1,500, depending on the time of year. Several on board worked in the marble or jewellery trade. Another bus is set to leave for UP on Monday morning. The charges are Rs 8,000 per head and the total cost of the bus is Rs 2 lakh. Most of those boarding the bus are small entrepreneurs from Dharavi. Transporters say the costs include the return fare as well. “Usually we ferry around 60 passengers, but because of social distancing we can only take 25. As we charge for the toand-fro journey, cost is high,” said a bus operator from Sion. This means the bulk of migrants, who are daily wagers with no earnings during the lockdown, will not be able to make the journey. Mohammad Izhat, who worked as a loader earning Rs 500 a day, has no money left. “I break my Ramzan fast with water. Only when NGOs distribute food, we get something to eat. I cannot afford to go home to Jharkhand.” After the lockdown was extended, he considered walking to his village, but gave up the idea as he has two children aged 5 and 8. Meanwhile, Shramik special train departures have picked up from Maharashtra. Three trains departed on Sunday—one each from Vasai and Bhiwandi early on Sunday to Gorakhpur, carrying 1,200 passengers, and the third from Nagpur to Lucknow on Sunday night with 927 passengers. Officials said Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh governments have written to Maharashtra seeking to evacuate migrants from there. “The MP government has said it will bear the cost for the train journey,” said an official. The Rajasthan government has sought 25-30 trains ferrying around 4 lakh migrants from the state, while the MP government has sought the return of around 26,000 migrants from Amravati, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur. Despite their chances being slim, migrants thronged police stations in Mumbai and its outskirts to fill their applications. Many said the procedure was very cumbersome. The applications require several documents, including Aadhaar cards, which need to be photocopied. “It took us a long time to find a shop that was open and then I had to spend Rs 20 on photocopy,” said Ajay Tiwari. Meanwhile, a union leader from Bhayander, Chandrashekhar Jadhav, was arrested for allegedly duping around 25 people by promising to get them transit forms to travel to their hometowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/migrants-in-maha-pay-through-nose-for-med-certs-travel-home/articleshow/75524607.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Drive with partner may land both of you in lock-up||AHMEDABAD: Taking your life partner sitting on the adjoining seat of your car or making her ride pillion on a two-wheeler is the habit that you must leave now as police will book you for not maintaining social distancing and for the disobedience to the lockdown order in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar cities. According to an FIR lodged with Vastrapur police station, the cops deployed at Judges Bungalow crossroads in Bodakdev area to enforce the lockdown spotted a car at around 10am on Sunday. A man was driving the car and a woman was seated on the adjoining seat. “When we asked the couple why they were out during the lockdown, the man, Digvijaysinh Zala (27), a resident of Bopal, said he had come to Bodakdev to buy medicines and had brought his wife along with him to give him a company. We booked the couple for the violation of the lockdown order and for the disobedience to a notification issued by the government servant,” said an official from Vastrapur police station. “We have come across many men who bring their wives along when they go out to buy grocery, vegetables and milk. This attitude has to be changed ,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drive-with-partner-may-land-both-of-you-in-lock-up/articleshow/75523876.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Indore||Recovery rate of corona patients doubles in a week||Indore: It all changed for the better within a week. Corona hotspot Indore’s recovery rate doubled to 22.32% on May 2 from 10.19% on April 26. The last one week recorded discharge of 227 people from different Covid-19 facilities in the city between April 26 and May 2. This led to doubling of the recovery rate. Indore witnessed increase in positive cases rapidly because of case detection in bunches. Most of the family members, neighbours as primary and secondary contacts were found positive during tracing. This increased positive cases very rapidly in initial weeks of April. Now, those persons are getting cured in bunches so recovery rate has picked up and will further go up in coming days, said CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia. Jadia said, “Recovery rate in city has doubled in last one week and will increase further in couple of days. Indore has touched recovery rate of 22% on Saturday with discharge of 121 patients.” There are 100 more people, whose first report came negative. They will be discharged in next two-three days, he said while talking to TOI. “Currently, though we are below the national average in terms of recovery rate, but will definitely surpass it in next few days,” added Jadia. The country witnessed curing of over 10,000 people at recovery rate of 26.59%. This week not only saw improvement in recovery rate but detection of new cases also declined. This week only 361 new cases were detected between May 2 and April 26. This led to decline in overall positive rate in city. Positivity rate declined from 20.17 % on April 26 to 17.52% on May 2. Four persons were discharged from Choithram along with 8 from MRTB hospital on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/recovery-rate-of-corona-patients-doubles-in-a-week/articleshow/75524287.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||City youths ensure a daily dose of nourishment for kids in lockdown||Prayagraj: Ever since the lockdown was announced on March 23, Prayagraj resident Ganeshi Prasad has a new morning routine. Every morning at 7, Prasad rings the bell of the temple of Lord Krishna in Leper’s Colony. Within minutes, scores of children assemble at the temple and sit in lines obediently, while following social distancing. Their eager experessions are soon replaced with grins as as they get hold of their treat for the day — a packet of milk and some bread. The kids’ smiles are something that would make anyone’s day, including Prasad’s and are a courtesy of the efforts of a local NGO ‘My Heart’. The organisation’s volunteers go around the city distributing milk and bread among poor and homeless children so that they do not go hungry because of the lockdown. “Our team comprises around 35 volunteers and eight of us go around distributing the food items. The rest of the team is involved with other chores like packaging,” said Faraz Ahamad, who is carrying on with the cause despite observing a roza during Ramzan. The volunteers start as early as 5am every day and a team of three sets out on a two-wheeler towards Meerapur locality. They pick up over 150 bread packets and then go to a Katra-based dairy to get the milk. The dairy is owned by one of the NGO member’s father. “As the dairy is owned by a member’s family, we are able to get the milk at a discounted rate. We take 60 litre of milk every day and the owners give us 10 litres extra. The milk is then packed into a half-litre packets for distribution,” said Nitin Dubey, another member of the group. Next, the team sets out for an orphanage for girls near Swaraj Bhawan, which houses around 40 inmates of different age groups. The remaining packets are distributed among kids in Leper’s Colony near Sangam. “Barring the 40 girls living in the orphanage, we decided to distribute the packets only among kids below five years of age,” said Ahmad. Once the volunteers reach the colony, the pradhan rings the temple bell, signalling all kids to assemble and receive their packets, he added. Once in a while, the packets also include biscuits and jam. The group also has to put up with irked adults in the colony who insist that they too should benefit from the drive. “They say they should also be given free milk and bread otherwise they would not send their kids to the temple,” he added. “Little do they understand that at this age, kids need nutrition more to grow. However, we give the adults everything which is not distributed on a daily basis to keep them satisfied,” said Saksham, another member of theNGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-youths-ensure-a-daily-dose-of-nourishment-for-kids-in-lockdown/articleshow/75522900.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Indore||Corona deaths sans co-morbidities drop||Indore: Indore has witnessed a decline in number of Covid-19 deaths without comorbidities in last 10 days, between April 23 and May 1. The number of deaths without co-morbidities has gone down from 39.62% on April 23 to 28.20% on May 2. In this period, out of 25 deaths, only one without any comorbidity was reported on April 24. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “The fatalities without any comorbidities in city has went down in last few days and it’s a good trend.” This will prove fruitful for the city in these tough times, said Jadia. When asked about high rate of deaths without comorbidities he said, “All those who died initially were admitted to hospitals in critical state. They were having severe acute respiratory infection, low oxygen content and so couldn’t be saved.” But, the situation in the city has improved because of intense screening and tracking of suspected persons in last one month, added Jadia. On April 23, out of 53 fatalities of COVID-19, 21 were without any comorbidity, according to death record of CMHO office. However, it remained at 22 deaths without any comorbidity out of 78 deaths on May 2. According to a senior faculty member of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, initially because of hiccups the hospitals involved in treatment of Covid-19 patients failed to record and report comorbid conditions in the patients. So, initially percentage was high but now it has been streamlined so it is reported to the authorities, added the faculty member. Death record of CMHO office till April 23 shows that there had been three persons, whose comorbidity weren’t reported by the hospital after they died because of this pandemic. Moreover, in the city the major comorbid conditions among fatalities due to this pandemic were found to be diabetes, hypertension, COPD, ADRS and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-deaths-sans-co-morbidities-drop/articleshow/75524296.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Voices for prohibition grow as sale of liquor resumes in state||Mangaluru: Altogether 152 wine shops (CL-2) and 22 MSIL outlets will start functioning in Dakshina Kannada district from May 4. With the state government deciding to open liquor vends, the excise department has started stock checking of every shop. According to sources, the commissioner of excise department had asked all DCs to check the stock before opening of liquor shops. “There are complaints that some license holders had illegally taken away liquor from their shops after the lockdown. This will be known when the the stock is checked,” said an official. Shailaja Kote, deputy commissioner, excise, DK told TOI that liquor vends (CL-2 and MSIL outlets) will be kept open from 9am to 7pm. She added that all liquor vends have been asked to maintain social distancing and other health precautions. However, tipplers cannot hoard the liquor and will be allowed to take away only permissible quantity. Quantities of liquor that can be possessed without license is: Indian Made Foreign Liquor – 4.6 litres; beer – 18.2 litres; wine – 9 litres and FMFL – 9.1 litres. Youngsters detained in Mys Krishnaraja police took two youths into custody who were protesting in front of a wine store opposing its scheduled reopening on Monday. The youths, residing in Sunnadakeri, are among many who are not in favour of reopening of the wine store located on Narayana Shastri Road. The excise department staff are preparing for reopening of bars and wine stores in the city as part of easing lockdown restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/voices-for-prohibition-grow-as-sale-of-liquor-resumes-in-state/articleshow/75522225.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||GMC, government OPDs to start tomorrow||PANAJI: More than a month after the lockdown the state’s government-run hospitals are set to open their out-patient departments (OPD) from Tuesday. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said an order in this regard will be issued on Monday. However, OPDs in government hospitals will operate at 50% patient load. “I will ensure that tokens issued are not more than 50% of total capacity. Even if a single extra token is issued, action will be taken,” Rane told TOI on Sunday. Giving all OPDs the green signal, Rane in the file note stated that doctors conducting OPDs must be provided with protective gear and N-95 masks. The dean will be responsible for starting the Goa Medical College (GMC) OPDs, while the directorate of health services will take the initiative for the district hospitals and other centres. The GMC dean met with the heads of department to discuss the smooth running of OPDs. A GMC doctor said they will have a difficult time as GMC’s OPDs are always over-crowded and patients line up from early morning for appointments. Some even wait in the hospital’s corridors overnight for appointments. “A huge backlog is expected as our OPDs remained shut for more than a month,” he said. The OPDs at rural dispensaries and primary health centres started a while ago. OPDs at private hospitals too have already started, Dr S Samuel Arawattigi from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said. A fortnight ago, the directorate of health service had issued an order asking private practitioners and consultants to resume operations to avoid inconvenience to public with OPDs in both private and public healthcare institutes remaining shut owing to Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-hosp-opds-to-start-from-tue/articleshow/75524614.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Only one entry point at containment zones: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Police have decided to stop completely movement of people in and out of the containment zone. “Now, there will be only one entry and exit point,” said DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday. He said there will be extra vigil for people venturing out of their houses during night. Jha said no relaxation, except for selling and buying of essential items, will be given in red zones like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and the municipal jurisdiction of Gandhinagar. He said relaxation will also not be given in areas like Bopal, Khambhat, Bareja, Godhra and municipality areas of Umreth. He said in Rajkot and Botad districts, though in the orange zone, lockdown will be implemented as in the red zones and no relaxation will be given. Jha said that the cops are on their toes and are mainly focussing on areas where there is more infections, besides vegetable markets and grocery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/only-one-entry-point-at-containment-zones-dgp/articleshow/75525070.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Only one entry point at containment zones: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Police have decided to stop completely movement of people in and out of the containment zone. “Now, there will be only one entry and exit point,” said DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday. He said there will be extra vigil for people venturing out of their houses during night. Jha said no relaxation, except for selling and buying of essential items, will be given in red zones like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and the municipal jurisdiction of Gandhinagar. He said relaxation will also not be given in areas like Bopal, Khambhat, Bareja, Godhra and municipality areas of Umreth. He said in Rajkot and Botad districts, though in the orange zone, lockdown will be implemented as in the red zones and no relaxation will be given. Jha said that the cops are on their toes and are mainly focussing on areas where there is more infections, besides vegetable markets and grocery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/only-one-entry-point-at-containment-zones-dgp/articleshow/75525071.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Allahabad||Health teams collect samples of 305 quarantined migrants||Prayagraj: Health department officials on Sunday collected samples of 305 migrants who had arrived from different states including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Haryana in the city after April 22. With this exercise, the department claimed to have completed samples of all migrants who had arrived in Prayagraj. These migrants have been quarantined at different centres. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The health department teams collected 95 and 205 samples from different quarantine centres in Meja and Soraon respectively. The remaining samples were from other parts of the city.” “Samples of 305 migrants who have been quarantined at trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna pockets were collected on Sunday. They had arrived from different parts of the country including Mumbai, Hyderabad, Ahamdabad and other region,” he said. With this, the health department has completed the sample collection exercise of migrants and results of samples would be coming in a day or two, added Dr. Sahai. Currently, the city has a total 10 Covid-19 positive patients. Of these, one patient has recovered while rest nine of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 Level One hospital in Kotwa and SRN hospital. On Saturday night, the wife of a Lukerganj-based Covid-19 patient also tested positive for the infection. However, the sample of infected couple’s son tested negative on Sunday. Meanwhile, Sahai said, “The containment exercise in all hotspots including Lukerganj, Saidabad and Bhaluha village (Koraon) has been completed.” Apart from a city-based couple, the seven other patients were migrants and had arrived in the city from states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. It may be mentioned that the first Covid-19 case reported from Prayagraj district was an Indonesian national who had come to the city after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. Meanwhile, district police intensified patrolling in the city of the view in view of third phase of the lockdown, which begins from Monday. A senior cop said, “We have been maintaining a strict watch on new hotspots and strict measures have already been enforced to follow the lockdown orders.” A route march has also been taken out by policemen on city streets appealing citizens to keep inside the house and stay safe .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/health-teams-collect-samples-of-305-quarantined-migrants/articleshow/75522912.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||3,000 Goans, 800 seafarers want to return to state: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that over 3,000 Goans want to return to the state. He also said that around 800 seafarers, on board two ships, are also in touch with the state government. Sawant said that Goans entering the state will be placed under facility quarantine for a minimum of two days. Others looking to enter the state will not be allowed “except in emergency cases”, he said. “At least till May 17, we will not allow anybody to enter Goa if they don’t have a valid reason,” the chief minister said, adding that ever since the state has been declared a green zone, many have expressed interest in coming here. Further, to keep the virus away from Covid-19-free Goa, Sawant said that entry into the state will only be permitted thrice a day — at 8am, 12pm and 8pm. “The moment they enter the state in private vehicles, they will be escorted to facility quarantine centres,” the CM said. The free institutional quarantine is, however, available to only Goans. “They have to produce their ID proof, including Aadhar card and voter ID card, or else they will be put in paid quarantine,” chief minister said. Later, those who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to proceed to 14-day home quarantine. This is a precautionary measure, and during this period they will have to strictly avoid contact with family members, the CM said. “If they don’t follow the norms, then they will be forcibly placed in paid quarantine,” Sawant said. Labourers, other than specialised ones required either by the government and pharma companies, among others, will not be allowed to enter the state. Speaking on migrant labours, Sawant said 71,000 have registered to move out of the state. Of them, 18,000 are from Karnataka, 17,000 from Uttar Pradesh, and 11,000 from Bihar. He also said that the government is in talks with the railway ministry to start a special train to Uttar Pradesh. “One station in Goa will be designated for migrants to leave the state and for Goans to return,” Sawant said. The state government will announce the train departure schedule. Migrants who want to leave the state can approach the panchayat secretary, mamlatdar or deputy collector, who will make the necessary arrangements. Sawnt said that construction activities have commenced and that contractors should convince labours not to leave. “If all labourers leaves the state then we will have a problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-3000-goans-looking-to-return/articleshow/75524617.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Plans on track to ensure Delhi Metro resumes smoothly||NEW DELHI: This Sunday marked the sixth week of Delhi Metro’s shutdown because of the lockdown. However, over 3,500 trips have been made by Delhi Metro trains during this period to keep the sophisticated system in readiness to resume the operations. To ensure that the 360-kilometre network with 264 stations and 14 depots remains well-oiled during the lockdown, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is carrying out maintenance of the system, which includes running trains on all corridors twice a day. Completely shutting down the system might result in glitches when metro operations resume. May 3 was also the 26th Foundation Day of DMRC and for the first time in all these years, the event was celebrated virtually where managing director Mangu Singh congratulated 14,000 DMRC employees through a message. “On this special day, we should all be extremely proud of what we have been able to achieve as an organisation. More than sixty lakh journeys with a punctuality of over 99 per cent were being performed on the Delhi Metro every day prior to the suspension of services in March,” he said. “We have worked hard to celebrate our Foundation Day using social media,” a DMRC official said. DMRC also shared a stunning video of Delhi Metro’s network under lockdown and another encapsulating its 25- year-long journey on social media. The 3,500 train trips during the lockdown are a result of at least two trains running from both ends of most Delhi Metro corridors towards the other end twice a day. “The exercise is aimed at ensuring good health and functionality of all the systems like track, traction, signalling, telecommunication, etc.,” the official added. “Minimum staff from system-related wings like Signalling, Electrical, Telecom, Civil, Traction and Track are deployed at stations. The purpose is to ensuring that all systems are working fine,” he said. “The duty roster for the staff has been prepared in such a way that a Station Manager/Station Controller visits the unmanned stations every sixth day.” Operation Control Centres at Metro Bhawan and Shastri Park have minimum staff deployment round-the-clock. “Generally, 10 to 12 staff work per shift which has been reduced to 2 to 3 per shift,” he said. DMRC is ensuring power supply at metro stations for minimum lighting for Central Industrial Security Force personnel, station control room, toilets and ensuing galleries, water pump and availability of water in toilets. DMRC is also ensuring functionality of the overhead electrical equipment and signalling systems throughout the lockdown period. “Similarly, all communication systems, such as radio sets and intercom, are in working mode along with cameras,” he said. “CISF personnel are manning all the stations and are also monitoring periodically through station rounds and CCTVs any unusual activity on the premises. Any abnormal activity shall be reported to the control room,” he said. “About 3,500 workers employed in various DMRC sites are also being taken care of since the beginning of the lockdown. All basic amenities, including medical care, are being provided to them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-plans-on-track-to-ensure-metro-resumes-smoothly/articleshow/75524622.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 4, 2020||Surat||Only one entry point at containment zones: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Police have decided to stop completely movement of people in and out of the containment zone. “Now, there will be only one entry and exit point,” said DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday. He said there will be extra vigil for people venturing out of their houses during night. Jha said no relaxation, except for selling and buying of essential items, will be given in red zones like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and the municipal jurisdiction of Gandhinagar. He said relaxation will also not be given in areas like Bopal, Khambhat, Bareja, Godhra and municipality areas of Umreth. He said in Rajkot and Botad districts, though in the orange zone, lockdown will be implemented as in the red zones and no relaxation will be given. Jha said that the cops are on their toes and are mainly focussing on areas where there is more infections, besides vegetable markets and grocery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/only-one-entry-point-at-containment-zones-dgp/articleshow/75525072.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Workers gather at bus stop with hopes to go home||Warangal: Close to 1,500 migrants sheltered in rehabilitation centres across Waranagal, gathered at the city bus stop on Saturday evening after hearing rumours that the Centre had organised travel facilities for them to get to their home states. Upon hearing this, Warangal East MLA N Narender rushed to the spot and convinced workers that there was no transportation facility from Warangal. He urged workers to continue to stay in rehabilitation centres until the district administration granted permission to travel.Meanwhile, sources in the police department said that 150 workers from Warangal Urban travelled to Maharashtra and Bihar by arranging their own transportation on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workers-gather-at-bus-stop-with-hopes-to-go-home/articleshow/75524302.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 4, 2020||Indore||Indore falls behind Bhopal in sampling||Indore: State’s Covid-19 hotspot Indore that accounts for 55% of total positive cases have failed to keep up with Bhopal in sample collection in last one week. The total sample collection in Indore till May 1 remained at 9,368, which has crossed 14,000-mark in state capital. Bhopal has increased sampling in city in last one week taking it from around 4,500 to 14,000. While Bhopal increased its testing capacity and sampling, Indore focussed on sampling of primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive cases in over 200 containment zones and other symptomatic patients visiting flu OPDs in identified hospitals in accordance with ICMR guidelines. Bhopal did mass sampling in areas like Ashoka Garden, Berkhedi and Jehangirabad in last one week to increase the number of sample exponentially, said an official source of Bhopal CMHO office. A senior faculty member of MGM requesting anonymity said, “Indore has been witnessing a decline in the number of positive cases in last one week or so because of concentrated sampling in containment zones.” Now, it is the right time to begin the random mass sampling in other areas, said the faculty member. When CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia was asked about it he said, “We have almost completed sample collection in containment zones and are doing it in buffer zones right now in accordance to guidelines of high priority groups.” But, in a week or so, we will definitely begin random mass sampling in buffer zones. The strategy will be declared soon, added Jadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-falls-behind-bhopal-in-sampling/articleshow/75524300.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only one entry point at containment zones: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Police have decided to stop completely movement of people in and out of the containment zone. “Now, there will be only one entry and exit point,” said DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday. He said there will be extra vigil for people venturing out of their houses during night. Jha said no relaxation, except for selling and buying of essential items, will be given in red zones like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and the municipal jurisdiction of Gandhinagar. He said relaxation will also not be given in areas like Bopal, Khambhat, Bareja, Godhra and municipality areas of Umreth. He said in Rajkot and Botad districts, though in the orange zone, lockdown will be implemented as in the red zones and no relaxation will be given. Jha said that the cops are on their toes and are mainly focussing on areas where there is more infections, besides vegetable markets and grocery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-one-entry-point-at-containment-zones-dgp/articleshow/75523875.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-Chhota Udepur civic body chief refused to give swab samples, booked||Vadodara: Former president of Chhota Udepur municipality was booked on Sunday for not allowing health officials take his swab samples for conducting the coronavirus test on Saturday. During random screening on April 30 in the cluster quarantine area in Chhota Udepur town, the former office-bearer Aadam Surti’s body temperature turned out to be higher than normal. Surti was asked to give his samples for laboratory test by a doctor from urban health centre, but he refused. Later members of contact tracing team and chief district health officer asked him to give his samples but he kept refusing. He was even told that the samples could be collected at his residence, but he kept dilly dallying and finally refused to give in. After waiting for two days, an offence was registered against him under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act on Saturday at Chhota Udepur police station. “His temperature was abnormal and he lived in the cluster quarantine area where seven persons were tested positive so there is a possibility that he may be a potential virus carrier and infect others around him,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-chhota-udepur-civic-body-chief-refused-to-give-swab-samples-booked/articleshow/75522763.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Two murders in 24 hours put spotlight on ineffective police patrol in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Two murders at different locations in rural Shahjahanpur were reported on Sunday, bringing the reality of police patrolling in rural parts of the district into sharp focus.The first incident was reported from Jalalabad, where a youth was thrashed by his close friend after they had a quarrel over some as-yet-unknown reason on Saturday night. The victim, Ram Naresh, was a resident of Kudebanda village. He was thrashed by his close friend who barged into his house with other unidentified people and thrashed him with batons.Ram Naresh received injuries on his shoulder, head and stomach, which initially didn’t appear grave. He was given medicines by a local doctor. The family decided to take him to hospital only on Sunday morning, when he complained of stomach pain. But he died during treatment. The autopsy confirmed internal bleeding in his stomach as cause of death. Police registered an FIR against four persons under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), and are searching for the accused.The second incident was reported from Tilhar, where a farmer, Sreeniwas, was murdered by unidentified people while he was watering his crops on Saturday evening. When Sreeniwas didn’t return home till late in the night, his family started searching for him. His blood-stained body was recovered from an abandoned room near his agricultural plot. There were multiple injuries caused by a sharp weapon, like a sickle or a knife.SP (rural) Aparna Gautam told TOI, “Technically, only one murder has been reported as the first incident was a minor scuffle in which the victim received internal injuries leading to his death. We have booked the accused for culpable homicide. The second incident is a cold-blooded murder where the victim was hacked to death by a sharp object. We’re investigating the case and the accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-murders-in-24-hours-put-spotlight-on-ineffective-police-patrol-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75523099.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||E-pass valid for round-trip travel, confirms Telangana police||HYDERABAD: With states allowing movement of migrant workers, students and other stranded people to their home states, many from Telangana are trying to get an e-pass, which will be valid for round-trip travel, from the police. On Sunday, state police approved close to 7,000 passes to stranded families to move out of the state. Another 10,000 requests are pending. Due to heavy traffic, the site has been down since morning and is not accepting fresh requests. Those who can afford to travel by hired vehicles or in personal cars have taken to social networking sites to seek help from officials to bring their loved ones home. Their only question is whether the pass will be valid for two-way travel.“Dear Sir, I have applied e pass yesterday and received it today. I will have to travel from Hyderabad to UP to Hyderabad by car to bring my family and for this return trip it will take 4 to 5 days and I am not able to contact anyone for more clarity. Plz help me,” read a tweet from @ArifAAlvi2. Others stranded in the state are trying to figure out if hired vehicles will be allowed back into the state after dropping people. “Hello sir, what about the two-way pass for a person who needs to drop me and come back to Hyderabad? I got EPass for tomorrow’s Hyderabad-Bangalore trip. But nothing is mentioned about return trip for driver. Can same pass be shown while coming back sir?” reads a tweet from Asmin Joshi.  Telangana police, confirmed that e-pass will be valid for round trip for the vehicle and the driver. “If a person is going to pick his/her family stranded in some other state, he/she can come back and enter into Telangana with the same pass. However, stranded family members need to get clearance from said state,” said Mahesh Bhagwat, commissioner of police, Rachakonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/e-pass-valid-for-round-trip-travel-confirms-state-police/articleshow/75524315.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bar urges HC also to hear routine cases||Ahmedabad: As the Gujarat high court has shut itself due to the Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown, its Bar association has urged Chief Justice Vikram Nath not to restrict judicial functioning to urgent new matters only, but start hearing all matters through video conferencing. The president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association (GHAA), Yatin Oza dashed off a letter to the chief justice saying, “I earnestly request your good self that let the high court function full fledged via video conferencing and let all Hon’ble Judges take up the matters as assigned to them as per roster.” The letter further reads, “Imparting justice is also a sovereign function of the state through judiciary. Shutting down the courts or restricting its functioning only to extraordinary urgent matters does not reflect well to the reputation of the high court to a man of prudence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bar-urges-hc-also-to-hear-routine-cases/articleshow/75523872.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Liquor shops set to open today in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: Excise deputy commissioner Captain Ajit Kumar held a meeting with liquor shop owners on Sunday, and instructed them to sell only 1.1l of liquor per person, once shops open here on Monday. Hence, a person can buy a 750ml bottle and a 375ml bottle. Speaking to the media, Ajit said the state government has issued guidelines to open liquor shops from Monday. “We have made the necessary arrangements, and instructed liquor shop licence holders about guidelines to be followed on Sunday. According to the state excise department’s guidelines, the liquor sold to an individual, cannot exceed 2.3l. After holding discussions with liquor shop owners, we have reduced the quantity that can be sold to each customer,” he said. The shops can remain open between 9 am to 7 pm. A liquor shop should have only two or three workers at a time, along with the owner. Owners should arrange personal security and barricades. Five people, who are maintaining social distancing, can buy liquor at a time. The sales staff should wear face masks and gloves, he said. Shivamogga superintendent of police K M Shantharaju said, “Liquor shop owners cannot break rules. They must not sell in bulk, or sell above the MRP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/liquor-shops-set-to-open-today-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75521581.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t refrain from seeking medical counsel: Hyderabad doctors to non-Covid patients||HYDERABAD: The fear of contracting coronavirus is having serious repercussions as non-Covid-19 patients are delaying going to hospitals. As a result, a surge in patients being brought dead or in completely paralysed state has been on the rise. Advising people not to refrain from seeking help for fear of the virus, experts said that severe infections, strokes and cardiac problems should not be avoided at any cost. “Earlier we saw one or two cases in three to four months but in the last 14 days alone, we have at least six patients who were brought dead to us. The fear of contracting the virus is so huge that people are delaying seeking emergency help and coming at the last moment. For instance, few days, a young male patient landed in an unconscious state because he thought that tingling in the hand during the ongoing pandemic can be avoided and came after a delay of two days from the onset of symptoms. By the time he was brought to the hospital, he had suffered complete paralysis,” said Dr Satheesh Kumar Kailasam, head of emergency medicine at Medicover Hospitals. In yet another case, severe chest pain was ignored thinking it could be gastric pain. “In normal circumstances, a severe chest pain is not avoided but now with the ongoing pandemic people are trying to delay seeking help, hoping that the problem will subside. The patient ultimately suffered a massive cardiac arrest in the ambulance itself. Also we are seeing many cases of sepsis reaching too late,” said a resident doctor at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). An untreated severe infection results in acute sepsis or septic shock in which the condition deteriorates rapidly and it becomes difficult to save the patient. “The chance of death in such emergencies is (around) 35 to 40 per cent, much higher than that of deaths due to Covid-19. In case of an emergency, it is important to seek medical attention and it should not be avoided at any cost. The fear of coronavirus should not stop patients from seeking help,” added Dr Kailasam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-refrain-from-seeking-medical-counsel-docs-to-non-covid-patients/articleshow/75524323.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||SECR forms ‘perish cells’ for parcel booking in lockdown||Nagpur: South Eastern Central Railway (SECR) has formed ‘perish cells’ in each of its three zones — Raipur, Bilaspur and Nagpur — for increasing the volume of parcel of perishable items and expediting their smooth delivery at different destinations in the backdrop of the lockdown to fight Covid-19 spread. In April, SECR loaded 1,010 tonnes of parcel including 32.5 tonne medicines, 14.9 tonne medical equipment, 427.08 tonne fruits and dairy item, 64.33 tonne vegetables and 223.2 tonne grocery items and delivered to different locations. Even motor cycles and bicycles were also dispatched. Out of 1,010 tonnes, Nagpur division’s contribution was 181 tonnes in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-forms-perish-cells-for-parcel-booking-in-lockdown/articleshow/75522814.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Lockdown violators primary carriers of Covid-19, reveals cell tower location analysis||Aurangabad: The analysis of cell tower tracing data of those testing positive for Covid-19 has revealed that the primary carriers of the infection have been the ones who rampantly violated the lockdown orders. The analysis has further revealed that in several cases, the primary Covid-19 patients, who at a later stage were found to be silent carriers, have common links, especially to the places they visited. After the latest analysis, the civic body administrator appealed to the citizens to follow the lockdown orders. He told TOI, “We are request our citizens to respect the lockdown orders. Only strict following of the lockdown orders can save every one. We need to honour the requests of medicos and health care workers.” Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s special task force comprising the cybercrime police personnel has started extracting cellphone tower location of each of the Covid-19 patients, and analysing the places where each of them had travelled in the past 15 to 20 days before testing positive. Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar was disappointed over some youths stepping out of their homes violating the lockdown orders and becoming silent carriers of the infection. As of now, Aurangabad has four hotspots. The areas of Noor Colony, Asefiya Colony, Aref Colony, Hilal Colony, Jai Bhimnagar Town Hall, Gulabwadi, Qila E Arak has turned out to be the largest hotspot. The other three hotspots are Samtnagar, Bhsusinghpura – Bhimanagar, and Sanjaynagar – Mukundwadi. After analysing the cellphone tower location of the people who tested positive, the special task force has found that all those who rampantly violated the lockdown orders became silent primary carriers and unknowingly infected their family members. “In the case of Noor colony and the entire hotspot area surround it, young people who had been to Aam Khas Ground, either to walk or hangout with friends or even to go to the markets, became silent carriers. When they returned home, they ended up infecting some members of their families,” said AMC law officer Aparna Thite, a member of the special task force formed by the AMC for contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. Many patients, who despite testing positive, initially remained in denial as they were asymptomatic. This made it difficult to extract information about their contacts and travel history in the past two weeks. “Scanning the tower location details of the Covid-19 patients is helping us to find out the places where they had been in the past 15 to 20 days. This data is used for identifying possible suspects, who might have come in contact with the patient,” said Smart City project’s deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam, who is also a part of the STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lockdown-violators-primary-carriers-of-covid-19-reveals-cell-tower-location-analysis/articleshow/75523134.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 4, 2020||Agra||1,200 workers and students reach Agra from Gujarat onboard special train||AGRA: Over 1,200 people mostly workers and students who were stranded in Gujarat since lockdown announcement arrived on Sunday in Agra onboard a special train. They boarded the train in Ahmedabad and reached Agra Cantonment railway station at 4pm. They got down on the platform, one after another, while maintaining the physical distancing, as district administration officials, policemen and railway staffers welcomed them by clapping and waving. From here, they will be taken to their home districts. In the afternoon, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh had inspected the arrangements at the center for screening of the migrants and safely transferring them to their respective districts. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has made arrangement of 50 buses to transfer the migrants to their home districts. According to UPSRTC officials, the migrants belong to at least 35 districts of UP. A route plan has been prepared to send them back. They will be quarantined there. Talking to TOI, DM Singh said, “All the passengers were screened by a team of health department. Details of all of them will be recorded. Initially, 50 roadways buses have been deployed to transfer the passengers to their respective districts. Only 25 to 30 passengers will be ferried in each bus. We have also made arrangement of food packets and mineral water bottles for all the passengers”. Vinod Kumar, a construction worker, said, “My home is in Jhansi. In Ahmedabad, I was not getting sufficient food for the last 15 days. At least I will not be sleeping empty stomach in my village. I am very happy. I am thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for understanding our problem.” The district magistrate informed that those who are stranded in Agra and need to go back to other districts of UP or any other state can contact on 9454419022, 9719343550. Besides, those who want to come back to Agra from other parts of the country can contact 8433453378, 9454419024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1200-workers-students-reach-agra-from-gujarat-onboard-special-train/articleshow/75523128.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Migrant workers sense a window to return home||Mysuru: The fresh guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) have offered the district administration across Karnataka an opportunity to facilitate the transport of migrant workers, tourists and pilgrims from and to their respective homes. Many Karnataka residents have approached authorities in those states they are stranded in seeking help to return home. Similarly, residents of other states too are growing impatient with their return home being deferred. Wildlife activist HP Ashwin was among those who approached the cops in the Nilgiri district in Tamil Nadu, seeking a pass to return home to Mysuru after the guidelines were issued. “I was stuck in Masanagudi just beyond Bandipur, and have been trying to get a pass to go back to Mysuru. I finally got the pass after the restrictions were relaxed on Friday, and I reached home,” Ashwin told STOI. Meanwhile, Smith is keen to leave for Bengaluru, and return to his wife Priya, from whom he has been estranged for the past month-and-a-half. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed to STOI that passes to migrant workers stranded across Mysuru district would be issued in accordance with the standard operating procedures (SOPs). Assistant commissioner of the department of labour AC Thammanna said that nearly 3,000 migrant workers from various states were stranded across Mysuru district. “Many of the workers are not too keen on returning to their states. However, those who approach us seeking to return home will be subjected to a medical test for Covid-19 and influenza like illnesses (ILI) before we permit them to travel,” said Thammanna, adding that there were hundreds of labourers stranded in Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts as well. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda admitted to the rise in the number of applications seeking passes from migrants to return home. “We will make necessary arrangements to ensure inter-district and inter-state movement of migrants,” said Gowda. Special train The MHA circular issued on Friday indicates that the government will operate ‘Shramik Special’ trains to facilitate the return of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students back to their respective homes. The special trains will be operated point-to-point in accordance with the established SOPs at the request of the state governments involved. All passengers would be screened prior to the journey, said a release issued by the Union ministry of railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/migrant-workers-sense-a-window-to-return-home/articleshow/75522262.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Over 800 home quarantined since lockdown||Nashik: Over 800 people have entered the city by illegal means ever since the lockdown was imposed, district authorities have said. The health teams of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have been stamping such people for home quarantine from time to time. According to senior civic officials, over 200 people are currently placed under home quarantine for a period of 14 days. Rajendra Tryambake, health officer of the municipal corporation, said, “Our teams are currently on the move to check if there are people coming into the city from other parts of the district or the state. We have a mobile application in which people can report if some person from outside the city has arrived in their vicinity. At the same time, people also bring such incidents to the notice of the disaster management cell from where we are instructed to check the concerned residences.” Tryambake said that the teams consisting of doctors and nurses visit the concerned residences and verify if someone from outside the district has arrived there. If any such person is found, his medical check-up is done immediately. The person is then home-quarantined for a period of 14 days. Civic officials said that if the spread of Covid-19 has to be controlled, people will have to be extremely disciplined. They have to strictly adhere to the lockdown norms set down by the police authorities as well as the government. If people keep neglecting the lockdown orders, new cases of Covid-19 would keep on emerging and newer areas of the city would keep on getting under the containment zone areas, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-800-home-quarantined-since-lockdown/articleshow/75523125.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad woman helps in rescuing her two minor sisters married off by father||Bareilly: Seeing her two little sisters - aged 15 and 16 - being married off by her father last month, a 22-year-old woman in Moradabad helped the police to rescue her sisters by approaching the cops. An FIR has been lodged against the marginalised farmer. The man has five daughters and his wife passed away some time ago.Acting on the FIR, the police rescued the minor girls and produced them before the child welfare committee (CWC). The incident occurred at Rajpura Khadar village in Moradabad district.On Sunday, CWC judicial member Dr GK Upadhyay told TOI, “The two weddings were solemnised last month within a gap of few weeks. When one of the two girls was married in Rajpura Khadar, her elder sister who is married and lives in the same village came to know of the matter. She then approached the police on April 29. Police rescued the girls who were produced before CWC on Saturday.”The CWC member added that since the girls still wanted to go with their father, both had been handed over to him after being produced before the committee.“Police have been asked to keep a strict watch over the girls as they continue to stay with their father. Since we cannot null and void their marriage, their father was told that the girls can move to their respective husbands' houses once they become 18,” Dr Upadhyay said.Station house officer (SHO) inspector Ajay Gautam said FIR under relevant section of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act has been lodged against the marginalised farmer.“Since the farmer lost his wife some time ago, he and his another daughter, who is already married and lives in the same village, will take care of the minor girls rescued by us,” the SHO said, adding that they were investigating the role of other people such as the families of the grooms in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-woman-helps-in-rescuing-her-two-minor-sisters-married-off-by-father/articleshow/75523117.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 4, 2020||Delhi||135 positive cases in CRPF battalion in city, 15 in BSF||New Delhi: As many as 135 personnel of CRPF’s 31st battalion based at Mayur Vihar have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, though test results of 22 more are awaited. The swabs of all personnel based at the battalion’s Mayur Vihar facility were subjected to testing following the death of a sub-inspector and 46 other personnel having tested positive. Meanwhile, 17 personnel in Border Security Force (BSF) have been found to be Covid-19 positive. While seven BSF personnel who were on duty with Delhi Police in Jama Masjid/Chandni Mahal area tested positive on Saturday, eight came out positive at BSF hospital in R K Puram, Delhi and two in Tripura. The primary source of the infection within CRPs 31st battalion is suspected to be a nursing attendant who had joined duty on April 7 after leave and was advised only a five-day quarantine — as against the 14-day period advised by health ministry — by director (medical) of CRPF. Though his quarantine was extended, CRPF suspects it was not enforced strictly, which may have led to the infected nursing staff coming in contact with other personnel. The 135 positive cases in the 31st battalion constitute almost 30% of the total 458 test results that are in. The results of 22 of the total 480 personnel tested are still awaited. CRPF officers told TOI that all the 135 Covid-19-positive personnel are now lodged at the Mandoli quarantine centre run by Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/135-positive-cases-in-crpf-battalion-in-city-15-in-bsf/articleshow/75517755.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Congress member fires at villager, misses||Karwar: In a shocking incident, secretary of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Gopalkrishna Nayak, aka Bengaluru Gopu, allegedly fired at a resident of Adloor village in Ankola taluk, Uttara Kannada district, on Sunday. Although the intended target, Vasant Mani Gouda, did not get shot, Nayak and his accomplices allegedly beat him with the butt of the pistol. Ankola police said that Gouda and Nayak got into an altercation over the latter, who is also a contractor, building a road close to the former’s home. Since the road was being built in such a manner that would result in a compound wall of Gouda’s home being demolished, he asked Nayak to realign it. On Sunday, labourers employed by Nayak near Gouda’s house reportedly plucked a jackfruit from the latter’s home. When Gouda expressed his displeasure over this action, the labourers got into a spat with him, and the Congress member arrived at the spot when the altercation heated up. An enraged Nayak reportedly fired two rounds at Gouda’s legs, but fortunately, the latter was not shot. Later, Nayak, along with his associates – Raghavendra Naik, Shrinivas Nayak and Praveen Kattimani – proceeded to assault Gouda, who sustained severe injuries. Gouda filed a complaint against Nayak and his accomplices at the Ankola police station. An FIR has been filed against Nayak and his associates under various sections, including attempt to murder and Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/congress-member-fires-at-villager-misses/articleshow/75522117.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Motivated to serve people better: Gandhi Hospital chief||HYDERABAD: Doctors and other medical staff working at Gandhi Hospital were felicitated by defence forces during the floral salute on Sunday. The helicopter that took off from the Air Force Station at Hakimpet, under the command of Group Captain KS Raju (medical) and Group Captain Pankaj Gupta reached the Gandhi Hospital at 10.30am. Doctors and other staff assembled near the Gandhi and Professor Jayashankar statues for the tribute with many locals also arriving to witness the event. While many clapped and cheered for the COVID-19 warriors, others took videos and photos on their phones to mark the event. As part of the event, Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao directed all doctors, nurses, staffers and police personnel to be present in full uniform. “Every petal belongs to all medical staff working across hospitals and quarantine centres. We feel motivated to serve the people better,” Dr Rao said. Later, the superintendent was also given a floral salute at his residence in Tirumalgiri. Taking a cue from the defence forces, residents at an apartment building in Bhoiguda decided to honour staff nurse at Gandhi Hospital, Sheetal Suhasini. “With the encouragement shown by the people, the government and army, we will work with more dedication” said Dr Pravin Pallam of Telangana Government Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/motivated-to-serve-people-better-gandhi-hosp-chief/articleshow/75524328.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad banker kills self, kin blame work pressure||HYDERABAD: A 36-year-old bank employee allegedly committed suicide by hanging in his flat’s balcony at South Swarrop Nagar in Uppal in the early hours of Sunday. Though he left behind a suicide note stating no one was responsible for his death, his family claimed work pressure may have driven him to take the extreme step, police said. The deceased was identified as A Bala Sundaram, an assistant manager with Andhra Bank, King Koti branch. He was staying with his wife and two children on the fourth floor of an apartment complex. Around 4.30am, his wife woke up and found him missing from the bed, Uppal police said. “She went outside the room to check on him and found the balcony door locked from outside,” Uppal sub-inspector (SI) J Chandana. With the help of a neighbour, they broke open the door and found Sundaram hanging from the hook with a rope. Police suspect the victim must have committed suicide in the early hours of Sunday. “A suicide note was found near the body, which says, ‘no one is responsible for my death’. However, the family suspect, he could have taken the extreme step due to work pressure,” the officer added. The body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital for an autopsy and a case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banker-kills-self-kin-blame-work-pressure/articleshow/75524346.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 cases in city cross 250 mark, death toll 5 now||Kanpur: The Covid-19 case count in the city crossed the 250 mark with 17 fresh cases being reported on Sunday, and the tally rising to 252. The coronavirus continues to target police personnel in Kanpur with as many as 11 more cops, including the PRO of SSP/DIG and an LIU lady inspector, tested positive in last 24 hours, taking the total tally of infected policemen to 24. The city’s Covid-19 death toll also increased to five when the report of a 75-year-old woman who died on Friday morning, came positive on Sunday. “We received reports of total 186 samples from Covid-19 lab of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College and KGMU, Lucknow, on Sunday morning. The samples of 17 people have tested positive for novel coronavirus. All of them have been kept in isolation and their treatment has started,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “The report of 75-year-old woman from Ranjitpurwa, who died on Friday morning at Covid 19 ICU of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, is also positive,” he added. A sanitisation drive was carried out at the ICU wing of LLR hospital while a health team started quarantining her family members. A disinfection drive was also carried out in Ranjitpurwa locality, where the elderly woman lived, the CMO said. “The number of infected policemen reached 24 with 11 more cases reported on late Saturday night,” Dr Shukla added. “They all have been admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. The sudden spike in the count of corona positive cases among police personnel — our front line warriors — is worrisome,” the CMO said. They are being monitored and are in the care of best medical professionals, he added. “The entire premises of their offices and residential accommodation were sealed and designated as containment zones. Frequent disinfection measures are being taken as per protocol to contain spread by breaking the chain of transmission,,” said a senior health official. The office of SSP/DIG and the command office premises have been put under strict lockdown. Stringent quarantine and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and their families, with door-to-door screening, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-cases-in-city-cross-250-mark-death-toll-5-now/articleshow/75524493.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC staff to attend offices from today||Kolhapur: As the government declared Kolhapur in the orange zone, all the official work of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation is expected to start from Monday onwards. The state government has asked the civic bodies to ensure 100 percent attendance of its staff. Currently, the ground level staff is 100% working while the rest of the staff is at 50 percent attendance. A senior KMC official requesting anonymity said all officer level staff has been asked to attend their offices and start clearing the pending files. However, at no office the citizens will be allowed. “We have the citizen felicitation centres open. The citizens can approach through the local ward level committees or through the landline number to register their concern. We will ensure the social distancing is followed in the offices. Currently the 50% staff attending the staff are from accounting and non technical department. They attend the office work till 3.00 PM. Now all the officials will be asked to attendance full time,” a official said. The higher civic authorities claimed that attendance of all the staff in the main building as well as in divisional ward offices will ensure speedy clearance of the pending files related to accounting, estimations and labour. Due to halting of these tasks the development works such as road repairs and other public works could get clearance. "We have staff of around 4,500 from which 3,000 are ground level health and sanitation staff. They all are currently involved in Covid-19 related works. Out of remaining 1,500, half were called to work every alternate days and those staying at home were advised to be in touch with their departmental heads. However, still it had limitations, which will be overcome after their full attendance in the offices," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-staff-to-attend-offices-from-today/articleshow/75523148.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Man assaulted for alerting civic authorities||Aurangabad: People voluntarily helping the administration by providing information about direct and indirect contacts of Covid-19 positive patients along with residents of containment zones violating order are risking their lives. In one such incident, a man identified as Arhad Khan — a resident of Muzaffarnagar area of the city — had gone to meet his sister residing in Mehmoodpura of N-13 Hudco area of the city on Friday afternoon. Over there, Khan reportedly spotted a woman who was a resident of Aref Colony, which has been marked as a containment zone as well as Covid-19 hot-spot, coming to a house of an acquaintance. The man quickly alerted the civic authorities about the woman’s movement. After learning that Khan had informed the civic authorities, the woman’s kin got into a heated argument with him and allegedly assaulted Khan and his brother. After getting treated for the injuries sustained in the incident, Khan reached out to the Begumpura police and an offence against four suspects, including the woman, was registered on Saturday. Police sources said that the suspects have been booked under IPC sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by means of dangerous weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult provoking a person for breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation). Following the latest incident, police as well as civic authorities have warned of stringent action against those targeting people on the suspicion of alerting the administration about Covid-19 patients along with their high risk as well as low risk contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-assaulted-for-alerting-civic-authorities/articleshow/75523150.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe’s plan to increase water revenue may lead to steep tariff hike||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in April increased water tariff by 5%, a hike for the 10th consecutive year. Considering that Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is expecting increase in revenue from water bills from Rs150 crore to whopping Rs260 crore, it may need a steep 75% water tariff hike. Mundhe in the budget copy had stated that expenditure on operation and maintenance of water works is crucial for improving water supply system. “Therefore, it is necessary to recover entire expense of operation and maintenance though water bills. Accordingly, plan is to implement telescopic water rate,” he said. The NMC is already having telescopic water rate. Under this, there are seven different categories of water consumers. Also, there are different slabs for each category. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, also chairman of NMC water works consultative committee, said, “NMC is maintaining telescopic water rate for years now. “I don’t get what Mundhe’s telescopic water rate is,” he said. If it happens, there will be water tariff hike for the 10th consecutive year since appointment of private operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) in 2010-11. Initially, NMC had approved to pay Rs7.90 per unit to OCW though minimum water tariff was Rs5 per unit. This further increased revenue loss for the NMC from water works. Currently, the minimum water tariff is Rs7.75 per unit while OCW is being paid Rs12.01 per unit. The NMC is supposed to increase rate to OCW as per revision in wholesale price and consumer price indexes every year. The NMC is increasing water tariff by 5% every year — which is 65% in the last nine years. At the same time, the NMC’s non-revenue water (NRW) is over 45%. Mundhe in his budget said, “NRW will be reduced by 20% in the first step, followed by 10% more.” According to Mundhe’s budget copy, water network of the city is 3,500km, of which 687km was replaced under 24X7 water supply project. “NMC requires Rs127 crore for completing the project in the next one year. Need is to replace 660km more water network, especially old pipelines in Ashi Nagar, Satranjipura and Gandhibagh zones. This will require more Rs346 crore,” he said. Mundhe made provision for completion of the project but could not facilitate funds for replacing more water network. Also, the NMC has miserably failed to recover arrears and current bills. Considering this, only option to achieve revenue growth of 75% is by increasing water tariff. Revenue from water bills is Rs150 crore in 2019-20, Rs145.26 crore in 2018-19, Rs148.68 crore in 2017-18 and Rs140.38 crore in 2016-17. It has never crossed Rs150 crore mark despite the hike in nine years. Also, NMC faced massive loss due to one-time settlement scheme of around Rs400 crore to OCW. Zalke said general body will take decision whether to hike water tariff or not. “Mundhe will present the proposal before general body. There is no need for hike as already NMC is increasing it by 5% every year. Water works will achieve no profit no loss if NRW is reduced and recovery increased,” he said. REVENUE LEAKAGE * NMC roped in OCW in 2010-11 and Rs7.90 per unit as against minimum water tariff at Rs5 per unit * It increased loss from water works to a great extent * Water tariff hiked by 65%, 5% every year, in the last nine years * Rate to OCW rate increased as per revision in wholesale price and consumer price indexes * Minimum water tariff is Rs7.75 per unit whereas OCW rate is Rs12.01 per unit * Loss from water works is over Rs80 crore per annum * Municipal commissioner announced he would increase water tariff and rijig slabs * NMC needs to bring down high NRW of over 45% and increase recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhes-plan-to-increase-water-revenue-may-lead-to-steep-tariff-hike/articleshow/75523975.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||15-year-old boy goes missing||Hyderabad: A 15-year-old boy went missing while playing outside his house in Rajendranagar. The boy was identified as Tarun Kumar, son of S Venkatesh, a labourer from Sassang Colony in Rajendranagar. According to the family, the boy was playing outside the house on April 30, when his father, Venkatesh scolded him. Following this, the boy did not return home. A missing case was filed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-year-old-boy-goes-missing/articleshow/75524332.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Meerut||68% of total coronavirus cases in Meerut district are men||MEERUT: More men have been found to be infected by coronavirus than women. In Meerut, men account for 68% of the total cases in the district. Out of the total 117 cases in Meerut district -- besides the one who is admitted in Kanpur -- 80 are men. The remaining 37 cases are that of women. According to doctors, globally, too, more men have been hit by the virus than women. Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “More men have been affected by the virus because generally they venture out of the house more than women – be it for grocery shopping or for work. Some people also attribute difference in hormones in males and females for more cases among men. However, no research has been done so far to substantiate this reason.” Causing severe acute respiratory syndrome, Covid-19 is mainly spread between people coming in close contact, often via droplets produced by coughing, sneezing, or talking. The droplets fall on the ground or surfaces rather than remaining in the air over long distances. People may also become infected by touching these contaminated surfaces and then, touching their face. Commenting on the data of Meerut, Dr Rachna Tandon, Meerut district epidemiologist, said, “The data reveals that the section of population more prone to catch the infection is one which usually is expected to go out of the house for earning a living i.e. men belonging to the age group of 21-60 years. It is advised that while we carry out our daily activities, we maintain sufficient physical distancing, use face masks and practice good hygiene to avoid catching the infection.” According to the report prepared by the health department, the most affected are in the age group of 11-20 years – with men accounting for 19 cases in this bracket and women nine, making a total of 28 cases in this age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/68-of-total-corona-cases-in-meerut-dist-are-men/articleshow/75523166.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 4, 2020||Meerut||Man held for selling drugs, 620 pills seized from him||Bijnor: A man was arrested here on Sunday for allegedly selling drugs and over 620 pills were seized from him. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and sent to jail, Kotwali Dehat police said.Javed Ahmed from Karauda village was arrested on the basis of a tip-off that he was selling narcotic pills. Kotwali Dehat police raided his house and seized over 620 pills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-held-for-selling-drugs-620-pills-seized-from-him/articleshow/75523183.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 4, 2020||Meerut||Couple gets married at UP-Uttarakhand border||BIJNOR: Arvind Kumar, 28, wanted to marry Chhaya Rani, 25. But there was a problem. He lived in a red zone in Uttar Pradesh while her bride to-be was a resident of a green zone, in adjoining Uttarakhand. The new Covid-19 regime has marked fresh borders in parallel to the state boundaries, the colour-coded ones. People of a red zone cannot enter a green zone. The families came out with a solution-- solemnise the wedding at the border. And on Saturday evening, Arvind took Chhaya home in his car. However, it didn’t start so well. On Saturday morning, Arvind, a resident of Bijnor’s Rehar area, got a pass to travel from the district administration, and happily dived into the backseat of a flower-decked car. He was off to Jaspur area in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, about 150km away, where the bride’s side was waiting. But, at the Bijnor border, his car was stopped by policemen. Arvind and his two relatives were told that they cannot go any further as the district was sealed. And also that Udham Singh Nagar was a green zone area, which people from the red zone cannot enter. After trying to persuade the policemen, who didn’t budge, Arvind called up the bride’s family, explaining them the situation. After a long discussion, a fresh plan was chalked out. The bride, who was already decked up, sat in a car with her parents and arrived at Dharampura police picket on Uttarakhand border. Arvind also reached there with a priest and the wedding was solemnised. “We had lost all the hope when policemen did not allow us to enter Uttarakhand. But, after much persuasion, they allowed to get the marriage solemnised somewhere in the bordering area. So we reached nearby Dharampura check-post. The bride and her family also reached there. Policemen also helped us in all this,” Arvind said. When contacted, Dharampura check-post in-charge GD Bhatt said, “We couldn’t let them through. Arvind lives close to Maniyawala village, where two persons tested Covid-19 positive last month. Later, both the families were granted permission to reach the bordering area. They came at our post and we helped them. They tied the knot here. Police personnel also took part in their wedding and gave blessings to them. All of them maintained social distancing during the ritual.” Bijnor district comes in red zone as 31 people have tested positive for coronavirus here. There are at least 185 villages located on the border of the two states, and inter-state weddings are common.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-gets-married-at-up-ukhand-border/articleshow/75523184.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Tis Hazari Courts to start hearings on Monday, clear pending cases||NEW DELHI: Tis Hazari court district judge has asked all the officers to start attending court from Monday to clear backlog of verdicts. In an administrative order following directions by Delhi high court, district judges have to start pronouncement of judgements in cases where arguments have already been heard and the matters were reserved for orders before the start of Covid-19 lockdown. The administrative order added that only those judges should come to the court complex from Monday who have pending work on handing down verdicts. “The judges posted in Tis Hazari courts may kindly note that except for dictation and/or pronouncement of the reserved judgments, they shall not hold court till further orders,” the order clarified, adding that judges who do not have any case pending are requested not to come to the court. The district judge has specified that judges should keep in mind that since the reserved cases would have already been adjourned en bloc in compliance with earlier orders of high court, they must fix fresh date and time of pronouncement, and issue notices to the litigants and counsel about the decision. “The notices shall specifically direct that only one counsel with or without litigant shall come to the court on the day and at the specified time of pronouncement,” it added. To prevent congestion and infection risks, judges should ensure except one ahlmad or one reader, one stenographer and one orderly, no other staff member should come to the court, the order said, adding that staff called by judges should preferably be a Delhi resident who commutes by self-driven vehicle. “All judges are impressed upon to download and install the Arogya Setu application on their mobile devices and ensure the said app was downloaded and installed by their staff as well,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tis-hazari-will-start-hearings-today-clear-pending-cases/articleshow/75524634.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded pilgrims: Two more bus drivers test positive||AURANGABAD: Two more drivers, who were associated with the fleet of buses that transported stranded Sikh pilgrims from Nanded to Punjab recently, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking total number of such infected drivers to four. A total of 31 confirmed cases of Covid-19, including 20 people associated with the langar (community kitchen) run near the gurdwara, have been reported in Nanded district so far till Sunday evening as different authorities stepped up measures to contain the spread of the infectious disease. Nanded deputy collector Prashant Shelke said both high-risk and low-risk contacts of new Covid-19 cases, including two bus-drivers, were being traced. “We still are waiting for the lab reports of 22 swab samples taken from people who had travelled to Punjab. The reports of students who have returned from Kota in Rajasthan are also awaited. These reports are expected by Monday. In all, reports of 77 throat swab samples are yet to come,” he said. On reports of some of the gurdwara staffers, who had tested positive for Covid 19, missing, Shelke said a couple of such cases exist. “The shrine authorities said they would locate the duo and take them to the identified health facilities. Communication gap must have led to those two individual still missing,” he said. Swab samples of a total of 1,254 suspected cases of Covid-19 have been collected in Nanded district till Sunday evening of which 1,122 have tested negative. As many as 382 individuals have completed their quarantine period and another 194 are undergoing the similar procedure. 48-year-old woman is Nanded’s 3rd casualty. The 48-year-old woman died within hours of testing positive for coronavirus on Sunday — increasing the death toll in Nanded district to three. The woman hailed from the Rehemat Nagar area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-pilgrims-2-more-bus-drivers-test-positive/articleshow/75523192.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 4, 2020||Meerut||Man, 58, dies of Covid-19 in Meerut, district’s death toll reaches 7||Meerut: Nine fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced on Sunday in Hapur, where the tally is 44 now. At least three more tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut the same day, where the total number of case is 120 (including one admitted in Kanpur). One more case was reported in Saharanpur, where the tally is staggering 199 now (including 12 admitted in Lucknow).Apart from eight cases in Hapur, an ambulance driver also tested positive in the district. But, the district administration said it should be counted in Amroha tally as his sample tested just a day after he arrived from Amroha to Hapur. While a 58-year-old patient died in Meerut, taking the death tally to seven.“A 58-year-old patient from Kidwai Nagar in Lisari Gate area died at 1am on Sunday and was tested positive for coronavirus after his death. He was admitted in the emergency of LLRM Medical College. His contacts are being traced and containment activity being carried out. With this, the total number of deaths in Meerut reached seven. Two others tested positive, too. While one 30-year-old man belongs to Zaidi Farm (Manzoor Nagar) another 57-year-old man, a fruit seller, tested positive from Ravindra Puri (Naya Bazaar),” said CMO Dr Raj Kumar.Aditi Singh, district magistrate, Hapur, said, “Nine cases tested positive in Hapur. At least seven of them are from Kurana, an existing hotspot. Out of these nine, one is the 16-year-old son of a lab technician who had tested positive in Delhi and a 108 ambulance driver. However, since he joined here from Amroha on April 25, the same day his samples were sent for testing and have now tested positive, it will be added in Amroha’s tally.”However, controversy remained about addition of the ambulance driver case in Amroha’s tally.Umesh Mishra, Amroha district magistrate, said, “We are yet to receive any information in the matter from Hapur district administration about this case. After getting authentic information about the matter, we will follow it up accordingly. However, since he is working in Hapur currently, so he will be counted in their tally only.”Dr BS Sodhi, CMO of Saharanpur, said, “One more case tested positive in Saharanpur on Sunday. He is being shifted to a hospital for treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-58-dies-of-covid-19-in-meerut-districts-death-toll-reaches-7/articleshow/75523172.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Teacher drives 18km daily to teach students in tribal village||Vadodara: He wakes up at the crack of the dawn, gets ready and leaves his home by 7.30 am on Sunday. Anil Makwana, 45, drives his scooter to reach Boridra village that is 18km away from his home in Rajpipla taluka of Narmada district. As soon kids in the village hear sound of his scooter, they cheered for Makwana and welcome him. Since the government announced lockdown in March, this has been his routine every week. Makwana could have relaxed at home and spent time with his wife and three children amid lockdown. Instead, he chose to not just educate but also entertain his school students. “Boridra is located in interiors and surrounded by hillocks. Forget internet, one doesn’t even get mobile network there. When the lockdown was announced I felt concerned for my students there as they would have lost out on studies as online teaching was out of question. So I decided to travel to the village thrice a week,” Makwana told TOI.He visits the village and despite sweltering heat, Makwana spends seven to eight hours with the students, many of whom come from very poor families. Students can’t be gathered in the school, so he visits their home to impart lessons. “In usual days, I teach students between 3rd to 5th standard. But due to lockdown, no teachers are available here. So I now take standard I to standard VIII classes and manage to cover five to six homes in every visit,” Makwana added. Apart from mathematics, science and environment, Makwana also teaches crafts, story-telling and different games to the students who are thrilled to learn something new each time. Makwana carries his own blackboard, chalks and duster every time and he ensures that students maintain safe distance and wear mask during the classes. “I spend money for fuel from my own pocket. When many good Samaritans and organizations are doing noble work during Coronavirus crisis, I felt that this is the minimum I can do as a teacher. I am glad that the students are enjoying my sessions,” Makwana, who has won best teacher’s award from the state government, said.One of his students, Jaya Vasava said, “Our teacher drives so far and visits our homes to teach us is itself an inspiration. We didn’t miss a single class and also learnt a lot of other activities in last one and half months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teacher-drives-18km-daily-to-teach-students-in-tribal-village/articleshow/75522785.cms||Tushar Tere
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||82k migrants complete home quarantine period||Kolhapur: As many as 82,627 migrants, who came from Mumbai and Pune to their native places in Kolhapur district, have completed their 14-day quarantine period stated data from the district administration report. It said that 85,702 citizens have been reported to have entered in the last few weeks, of which 82,627 have completed their home quarantine, while 3,075 people still have to complete their 14-day period. The report also stated that the district has witnessed 820 citizens having international travel history and all of them have completed their 14-day quarantine period. The data also showed that in Kolhapur district till Sunday, 2,184 samples were tested out of which 1,823 tested negative, while 14 tested positive. Results of 297 samples’ are still awaited, while 40 were rejected. One more positive at Sangli Sangli district recorded another positive Covid-19 case on Sunday. With this, the number of positive cases has gone up to 35 in the district. The number of active cases have gone up to seven. The contact tracing of the concerned patient has started, said Abhijeet Chaudhary, Sangli district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/82k-migrants-complete-home-quarantine-period/articleshow/75523176.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government forms new Covid management panel with former DME at the helm||KOLKATA: The health department has formed a Covid Managament and Containment Committee with former director of medical education Pradip Kumar Mitra as the state coordinator. With a mandate to oversee the functioning of the testing laboratories, the committee has started functioning under the leadership of Mitra who assumed charge on April 30. Now retired, Mitra — who is considered an able administrator and has served the health department for more than 35 years — will be functioning from the Swasthya Bhavan. According to health department sources, it was chief secretary Rajiva Sinha who approached Mitra with an offer to head a committee that will look into various aspects of dealing with the pandemic and offer advice, including testing of samples that is being stepped up. Mitra, who had been appointed director of medical education in 2018 during an agitation by the students of Calcutta Medical College, agreed to take up the responsibility. “But I have informed the health authorities that it will not be possible for me to visit hospitals. They have allowed me to work from Swasthya Bhavan,” Mitra told TOI on Sunday. He added that apart from looking into various aspects of Covid-19 and offering advice, the committee will make an attempt to increase the number of testing laboratories. “We now have 16 functioning laboratories across the private and government sectors. Within the next one week, we hope to have at least three more at Burdwan, NRS Medical College and Calcutta Medical College. These labs are ready and are waiting for a clearance from the ICMR,” said Mitra. He added that a lab will come up at Bankura as well. A two-week long hunger strike by students of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital demanding accommodation at a new hostel building had led to the appointment of Mitra as the medical education director in 2018. Prior to that, he had been the director of the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER). Mitra, who was removed from the post of the IPGMER director following a controversy over a dog’s dialysis there in 2015, was subsequently posted as the OSD, multi/super specialty hospital. His appointment is in line with the state government’s recent announcement of appointing retired health officials to bolster health services during the pandemic. Bengal on Sunday tested 1,939 people taking the total testing figures to 22,915. Till April 30, the government has tested 16,525 samples. In April end Bengal’s tests per million increased to 183. “The testing scale-up is proportional to the number of tests. On February 1, we had one testing centre, on March 2, we had two. On March 27, this became three and now we have 16 testing centres. This figure will keep increasing as we get more approvals for testing centres. We are ensuring that they work to their full capacity,” Sinha had told reporters. In April-end, the increase in tests, he said, was proportional to the positive sampling rate which slipped to below 5, and stood at 4.6% on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-sets-up-new-covid-comm-with-former-health-dir-in-charge/articleshow/75523917.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police and IMA doctors volunteer to check people before issuing certificates||AURANGABAD: The doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have volunteered to check people, who are keen to travel outside Aurangabad, in a free health check-up camp organised by the Aurangabad city police from Saturday onwards. Incidentally, the people who want to travel out of Aurangabad for emergency reasons have started approaching the district collector, and the police department for permission to travel outside the district. It is mandatory for those applying for travel permissions to get a medical certificate. However, according to the commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad it is not easy to get a doctor to conduct the examination and get the medical certificates issued. “Many are not in a situation to pay a fee to the doctor for securing the certificate. In order to ease their concerns, we contacted our police doctors and IMA who volunteered to conduct an examination and issue medical certificates to the outsiders and other people wanting to travel outside Aurangabad,” he said. Anupam Takalkar vice president of Aurangabad IMA said that the checking and issuing of medical certificates will go on for the next few days. “We checked 300 people on Saturday and 400 on Sunday. None of them were found to have any Covid-19 symptoms,” Takalkar said. Over the next few days, the doctors will also be holding an AMC health check-up camp for migrant workers at different locations in the city. People who want to travel outside the district from Aurangabad are asked to go the link https://t.co/7oUqDAQcPs or call on 0240 2331077 for queries. Beed tehsildar Shrikant Nile told TOI that those wanting to get their medical certificates issued can visit taluka level hospitals, district civil hospital and othere registered medical practitioners in district. The district is also contemplating on holding a camp for issuing medical certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-ima-docs-volunteer-to-check-people-before-issuing-certificates/articleshow/75523178.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Vehicle check to be beefed up from today||Coimbatore: The city and rural police will intensify vehicle checking at the 11 inter-district borders from Monday. “We would ensure that people wear face mask and maintain social distancing. We plan to sensitize the public by our officers. Without face mask people should not come out on the streets. We will continue the random vehicle check at the 33 check points in the city,” city police commissioner Sumit Sharan said. Sujit Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district, said as many as 11 inter-district borders were tightened. “Instead of booking many cases, we will sensitize the people about social distancing and wearing face mask,” Sumit Kumar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vehicle-check-to-be-beefed-up-from-today/articleshow/75524343.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Utilisation of disaster fund stokes debate in universities||AURANGABAD: Governor and ex-officio Chancellor of state universities Bhagat Singh Koshyari has appealed to the varsities to donate 10% of their disaster management fund for the official battle against Covid-19. This call, however, has stoked a debate on the ideal ways to utilise the money in question. The fund concerned was founded in 2001. The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has been charging Rs 10 from every student to raise the desired corpus. On Sunday, a senior university official said that Bamu has around Rs 3 crore in the disaster management fund. “None other than the Chancellor has asked for the release of the money from the disaster management fund, and we have to respond to the call. In 2013, the government had framed guidelines for spending the fund, especially money accrued towards interest. The money will be released and authorities concerned have been asked to do the needful,” he said. Sanjay Nimbalkar, a member of Bamu’s management council, said the disaster management fund had largely remained non-utilised even during past natural crises. “The Covid-19 outbreak has created unprecedented financial crisis. The state universities can contribute their share by shelling out money from the fund,” he said. The appeal has led to a debate on whether the fund can be used for purposes other than student-centric ones. Kishor Shitole, another management council member, said the state universities can explore ways of utilising the funds on their own for the benefit of students, instead of donating to any official fund operating at the state level. “Every university, including Bamu, can chart out a plan to spend the disaster fund on different relief measures. It will be inappropriate to donate the money meant for students to a general cause. Also, the state universities are bound to face their own set of financial challenges after Covid-19 and the funds can be utilised for that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/utilisation-of-disaster-fund-stokes-debate-in-varsities/articleshow/75523208.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Summer of discontent: Traders in AC business cool heels||NEW DELHI: Summer’s here and the mercury is nudging 40 degrees Celsius, but India’s biggest air-conditioning and refrigeration hub at Daryaganj is still lying shut. Traders said 60% of their annual business occurs during this season through which they cater to not only domestic consumers, but cold storage units for safe procurement of agricultural produce, patient care centres and deep freezing requirements of medical establishments. Ashok Sahdev, who heads Delhi Refrigeration Airconditioning Traders’ Association (RATA), narrated how a Noida hospital was in need of R404 refrigerant gas for their equipment, but they couldn’t help. “I told them to look for it in Noida, but they couldn’t find a solution there. Their critical machine got ruined. Refrigeration is not only about comfort,” he added. Freon gas and components used in refrigeration are mostly brought from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Manesar. While there are around 600 refrigeration shops across the city, 250 traders are concentrated in Daryaganj. The peak trading season is from March to May. “All the retail outlets are closed for a month. The gas, compressors and components that are supplied by us are critical requirements for labs and hospitals too. Some drugs and samples are stored at -20 degrees Celsius. There is no backup right now,” Sahdev said, adding that spare parts are not available online. Freon gas is critical for air-conditioning and used in the compressors of cars, refrigerators, cooling units, deep freezers, cold storage and temperature control units. While smaller dealers supply around 15-20 tonnes of this gas, the larger units use 200-300 tonnes. Tejpal Singh, another trader from Daryaganj, said that transportation of gas has halted and shops are not being allowed to operate. The association said they are not being allowed to cater to emergency calls even though there is no shortage of gas right now. Hemant Bablani, vice-president of RATA, said operation theaters need temperature control and don’t have backup in place at present. “This is the time when most of the repairing and refilling occurs. Our industry has been hit really hard,” he added. Bablani said the industry was put in white goods category and not essential items despite repeated representations to the authorities. “We are getting frantic calls from patients who need temperature control in their houses. How do we help them?” he asked. RATA also argued that if plasma therapy is found successful, the cooling industry’s help would be required for large-scale storage. “The relaxations should also include transportation of gases as the demand is likely to jump after the lockdown is lifted. The current stock will be over in 10 days. How will the next lot come?” asked Bablani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/summer-of-discontent-traders-in-ac-biz-cool-heels/articleshow/75524349.cms||Paras Singh
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Quarantine decision to be taken by local committees||Kolhapur: The decision of home or institutional quarantining of people entering the district will be taken local committees, district guardian minister Satej Patil said, adding that the screening will take place at 20 entry points. The screening will be done by a village-level committee for villages and a ward-level committee for towns and cities. For the travellers lodged in shelter homes across the city and district, the administration has asked the local authorities to ensure that their medical check-ups are done as early as possible. A total of 852 people from other states and districts are currently placed in shelters across the city and district. The district administration has received over 10,000 applications from people seeking entry into the district. Patil said that people arriving from other districts or states will be screened at 20 entry points in the district. He has, however, asked the local committees and police to keep a strict watch on private transport vehicles, especially the ones used for transporting essentials since many people have earlier been found travelling in such vehicles. District collector Daulat Desai has already directed each village administration to set up a quarantine facility that can accommodate 50 people along with providing food and sanitation facilities. “Travellers with the passes from the other districts will be screened at these 20 entrances. The list of such persons will be provided to respective local authorities. The committees at each of the points will have to ensure that noone without a valid pass can slip through these entrances. The decision to put people in institutional quarantine or home quarantine should be taken at the village level or the ward level only,” said Patil. So far, no district administrations have started issuing travel passes for inter-state travel. Patil also said that the district authorities have been asked to ensure that people are allowed to leave to and from in batches so that the roads are not clogged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/quarantine-decision-to-be-taken-by-local-committees/articleshow/75523201.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Agra||District administration to supply packed vegetables from today||AGRA: In an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, the district administration has planned to supply packed vegetables in the city from Monday. The plan will first be implemented in 10 wards of the city. So far, at least 15 vegetable sellers have been tested corona positive in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We have planned doorstep delivery of vegetable packets in the city. The decision has been taken to ensure Covid-19 infection does not spread because of vegetable sellers and violation of social distancing protocol, which often happens in the name of purchasing vegetables, does not take place.” “On Monday, the packets will be delivered in 10 wards of the city. Other wards will be covered after that. In this regard, responsibilities have been assigned to the municipal corporation and Mandi Parishad officials,” he added. Municipal commissioner Arun Prakash said, “Two vegetable wholesalers have been tasked to make vegetables packets. On Monday, doorstep delivery of these packets will be done from ward number 1 to 10. The packets will be delivered using 20 vehicles, two in each ward. Two types of vegetable packets are being prepared. One is worth Rs100 and the other is for Rs 200. We will also be delivering fruits soon.” The packet which will cost Rs 100 will have 2.5kg potato, 1kg onion, 125 gram green chilli, three lemons, 50 gram ginger and 1kg bottle gourd. The packet which will cost Rs 200 will have 5kg potato, 2kg onion, 250 gram green chilli, six lemons, 100 gram ginger and 2kg bottle gourd. The third packet which will have fruits will cost Rs 100. The packet will contain 1kg apple and 1kg banana. The doorstep delivery of fruits is likely to start from Tuesday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dist-admin-to-supply-packed-vegetables-from-today/articleshow/75523203.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 4, 2020||Meerut||Vials of blood samples discarded on road in Shamli, Jayant Chaudhary slams health dept||Meerut: Panic spread in an area of UP’s Shamli district after scores of vials containing blood samples were found strewn on a road and in a nearby gutter. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the sight of dogs licking at the human blood shocked many and some recorded it over phone and put it on social media platforms.RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary took to Twitter to slam the health department. “Blood samples found scattered on the road in Silavar village point at irregularities in the health department. Its investigation and responsibility of the negligence should be ensured,” Chaudhary said.Sources also claimed that apart from blood samples, used syringes and other biomedical waste was also dumped in the sewer along the road. Soon, a police team accompanied by health department officials rushed to the spot in Silawar village, close to a railway station on Saturday evening.During primary probe, it was found that the samples belonged to a private pathology laboratory in the area. According to Shamli’s superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal, “One of the staffers of the pathology had accidentally dropped the sample box on the way. The samples were later secured by the lab staffers.”While an officer at Adarsh Mandi police station said, “At around 8pm, lab manager Sudhir Kumar dropped the sample bag containing discarded samples on the way. Later, dogs tore the sample bag and scattered the collection tubes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/vials-of-blood-samples-discarded-on-road-in-shamli-jayant-chaudhary-slams-health-dept/articleshow/75523190.cms||Piyush Rai
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Thirty techies come to the rescue of truck drivers on NH-44; help migrants and cops||HYDERABAD: A team of 30 techies, who are employed in multi-national software companies, have come to the rescue of truck drivers during the lockdown. While many good hearted citizens are lending a helping hand to migrants and other poor, these software engineers are doing their bit to help the drivers, who got stuck at the Addakal toll gate on national highway-44 that connects Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. They have enrolled themselves as volunteers of Manavata, a non-governmental organisation which is helping the truck drivers. “After the lockdown came into force these truck drivers, who usually drive through several states, got stranded here without any food. But once we came to know about their plight, our techies responded quickly and are providing them with food and other essentials. Till now we have taken care of around 30,000 drivers,” said software engineer M Aravind, who is a volunteer with Manavata. “The food is prepared and packed properly to keep it fresh. We are also providing herbal tea to improve their immunity,” he said. Another member of the group, Surya Prakash said, “Apart from taking care of the drivers, we have also distributed grocery kits to about 1,500 migrant and daily wage workers at Gachibowli, Madhapur, Hi-Tec City, Yousufguda, SR Nagar and Erragadda.” Aravind also said that they have distributed medical kits to the police. “Not only helping the needy, the volunteers of Manavata have also delivered 20,000 immunity medicine kits at the Telangana DGP office for the benefit of cops, who are working in 200 police stations that are located in the red zone” Aravind said, adding that they have raised a fund of Rs 25 lakh to undertake relief measures. The food distribution for the truck drivers will continue till May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thirty-techies-come-to-the-rescue-of-truck-drivers-on-nh-44-help-migrants-and-cops/articleshow/75524364.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Woman delivers preemie in toilet||Yavatmal: A mother of two delivered a premature baby boy on Saturday in the toilet of Government Medical College, Yavatmal. She left the dead 5-6-month preemie in the toilet and got admitted in ward No.3 of the gynaecology section. The incident came to light when the foetus was found in the toilet. Police sources said the woman from Bangar Nagar reached the OPD on Saturday with abdominal pain and bleeding. The doctor on duty advised a sonography test. The woman stood in queue for two hours, before she felt severe pain and went to the toilet to urinate. There, she delivered the still born baby prematurely. The woman left the dead foetus in the toilet and went back to the doctor. Since she was bleeding, the doctor got her admitted in emergency ward no.3. Later, she was shifted to ward no. 4, where her condition is said to be stable. Meanwhile, somebody noticed the dead baby in the toilet and a doctor lodged a complaint with City police station. Head constable Fuljhele visited the hospital and on preliminary enquiry identified the woman. However, no FIR has been filed in this regard so far. HoD of gynaecology Dr Rohidas Chauhan said dean Dr Rajesh Singh has constituted an enquiry committee of four members under the chairmanship of Dr Ajay Keshwani of paediatric department, and its report is awaited. Dr Rajesh Singh refused to speak in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-delivers-preemie-in-toilet/articleshow/75524359.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Seven truck drivers isolated for 14 days in Coonoor hospital||Udhagamandalam: Seven truck drivers from the district, who had returned from Chennai after unloading vegetables at Koyambedu wholesale market, were isolated at the Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital on Sunday for fourteen days. “Normally, all the truck drivers and people entering the district with e-pass are made to undergo thermal screening at the check posts on the district border,” deputy director, public health, Dr P Balusamy said. He said people entering the district with e-pass are home quarantined and monitored regularly. “From today, we have started isolating truck drivers returning from Koyambedu market, a new Covid-19 cluster in Chennai, at hospitals as a precautionary measure,” Dr Balusamy said. “We are tracing around 40 truck drivers who have returned from Koyambedu in the past two-three days,” he added. Samples for COVID-19 test from the seven drivers have been lifted and sent to the lab in Pasteur Institute in Coonoor. Samples will be taken from the 40 drivers too, he said. As many as 1,300 people, who entered the district with e-pass, are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-truck-drivers-isolated-for-14-days-in-coonoor-hospital/articleshow/75524351.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||NDMC to give Rs 15 lakh compensation to kin of staff in case of Covid death||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) will pay a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to the heirs of an employee in case of their death due to Covid-19 while on duty. All employees, including contractual and daily wagers, will be eligible for the compensation. “All municipal services to contain the spread of infection by the novel coronavirus are being provided to residents and important offices like central government building, diplomatic missions, etc. Though NDMC is adopting all measures to safeguard and protect its staff, it has been felt necessary to assure financial help to motivate them in these difficult times,” said an official. NDMC’s compensation scheme is valid for next three months and no age limit has been prescribed for it. “ This facility will, however, not cover those not attending duties or it cannot be established that their death occurred due to Covid-19,” said the official. The civic agency has also decided to reimburse all medical bills and facilities used during the treatment of its contractual and muster roll employees for coronavirus infection. Their family members will also be covered under the scheme. There are around 6,000 contractual and RMR employees in NDMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-to-give-rs-15l-compensation-to-kin-of-staff-in-case-of-covid-death/articleshow/75524636.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||30 from Sangli tests -ve, home quarantined||Kolhapur: All 30 family members and relatives of the deceased from Kheradi Wangi village in Sangli district have tested negative on Saturday. The Sangli district administration had earlier decided to move all the people to home quarantine from the institutional quarantine facility at Kadegaon. The deceased was told to be the Covid-19 patient after death and later it was told that there was a mistake in the name which caused the confusion. Abhijeet Chaudhary district collector of Sangli said since the recent test of the close contacts has turned negative all have been moved to the home quarantine facility. He also said that the six Covid-19 patients in the district are stable and recuperating at the Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital. Chaudhary said that the Sangli district has been declared as the orange zone as per the centre’s guidelines, which will see few relaxations by complying with the social distancing rules. Due to the overall discipline, the district has managed to shift from red to orange zone, which needs to be continued. He warned citizens that if the number of patients increases in the coming days, all the relaxations would discontinue. He said that citizens in the containment zone will not get any relief in their routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/30-from-sangli-tests-ve-home-quarantined/articleshow/75523215.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Govt: Online spoken English for students of classes X, XII||New Delhi: Delhi government will start online spoken English and personality development classes from May 4, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Saturday. He was addressing the fifth session of “Parenting in the time of Corona” via video conferencing. Sisodia said the initiative would enhance spoken English and soft skills of students of Class X and Class XII. “We cannot overlook the importance and relevance of English today. To progress further at national and international levels, our students should have good command over the language,” he added. “These classes will continue till June and will help in boosting the confidence of the students,” said director of education Binay Bhushan. The initiative is being implemented in partnership with British Council and Macmillan Education. Reviewing the online maths classes introduced last week, Shailendra Sharma, principal advisor to the DoE, said that “all 4,80,000 students of Class IX have received SMSs for the online classes and 35,000 students logged in on the first day. As many as 1,20,000 students attended the classes in the first week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-online-spoken-english-for-students-of-classes-x-xii/articleshow/75517831.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant calf killed in suspected tiger attack||Udhagamandalam: A three-month old elephant calf was found dead in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Saturday evening. The carcass was first spotted by forest field staff, who were on patrol, at Kanjikatty Vayal Saragam in the Theppakadu forest range in the MTR core area, a source said. Forest officials suspect that the calf might have been killed by a tiger. “The available signs at the spot and external injuries found on the carcass suggest that it was killed by a tiger,” a forest official said. Postmortem was performed on Sunday as per the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, the official said. He said samples of the animal’s vital organs have been collected for lab test to ascertain the exact cause of the calf’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-calf-killed-in-suspected-tiger-attack/articleshow/75524357.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Initial response to Nanjangud outbreak inadequate: Harsh||Mysuru: Senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta, who was asked by the state government to investigate the Nanjangud Covid-19 cluster, has found fault with the initial response of the district administration in handling the outbreak, said sources privy to the report submitted by him to the government. Gupta, who has been appointed by the government to supervise the measures taken to contain the outbreak of the pandemic in mid-April, was tasked with the probe into the Nanjangud cluster, a week later. According to sources, Gupta, with the help of experts from Mysuru and Bengaluru, prepared a report on the Nanjangud cluster, and submitted it to the state government. He has pointed out that the immediate focus should be on containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. It can be recalled that the patient designated P-52 was the first employee from the Nanjangud pharmaceutical plant to contract Covid-19. Over 70 Covid-19 patients are related to this cluster. The ruling BJP is divided over the issue, with Nanjanagud MLA B Harshavardhan alleging that pressure is being exerted on the district administration, to save those responsible for causing the spread of the disease. Following a war of words between political leaders, and pressure being put by the public to get to the bottom of how the Covid-19 cluster developed in Nanjangud, the state government appointed Gupta to probe the matter. According to sources, it has been pointed out in the report, that immediately after the outbreak, several interventions should have been made to mitigate the spread of the disease, but such measures were not taken. A few constraints faced by the investigating team, to proceed with the investigation, is also mentioned in the report, informed sources. Even though a committee was formed to find out the source of the infection, it has been pointed out that due to restrictions in the containment zone, and existing rules related to the quarantine, the committee was not able to carry out their investigation. The report concluded with the action plan required to control the spread of the disease in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/initial-response-to-nanjangud-outbreak-inadequate-harsh/articleshow/75521668.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||A train of emotions rolls into UP||LUCKNOW/KANPUR: As Jitendra Yadav deboarded Shramik Special train at Charbagh railway station along with about 850 migrant labourers and their children working in Nashik, he bowed down with teary eyes to kiss the ground. But officers immediately stopped him and reminded him to follow Covid precautions. Completing the journey of around 1,200km, the train reached Charbagh railway station early Sunday morning. Eight medical teams thermal-scanned each passenger before allowing them to proceed for boarding 31 buses arranged by the UPSRTC for their native places. District and police officials were also present and videographed entire exercise. “I walked 170km from Mumbai to Nashik along with several other workers. We were heading towards UP when police caught us near Nashik border on Friday. We were hungry for two days. Police gave us food. Later, we were informed about the train. Officers helped us in boarding it,” said Jitendra Yadav, a taxi driver in Mumbai. Similar emotional scenes were witnessed at Kanpur Central Railway Station as a special train from Ahmedabad with around 1,200 migrant workers arrived on Sunday. All the migrants were natives of Kanpur and nearby districts. including Unnao, Kanpur Dehat, Fatehpur, Kannauj, Jalaun and Jhansi. After undergoing thermal screening, the migrants boarded 40 special buses which ferried them to their native districts. Manish Kumar, a native of Kannauj, said, “When at the railway station I saw a team of doctors and another team with food packets, I could not control my emotions. I want to thank CM Yogi Adityanath as because of him we would meet our families once again.” Raj Shekhar, MD of UPSRTC, said that all the buses were properly sanitized and drivers were trained for following precautions needed to avoid Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-train-of-emotions-rolls-into-up/articleshow/75524796.cms||Urooj Khan
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government notifies Covid-19 as epidemic disease||JAIPUR: The state government on Sunday, in exercise of powers conferred under Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, notified Covid-19 as an epidemic disease for the whole of Rajasthan. In exercise of powers under the Ordinance, the state government authorizes police ofﬁcers not below the rank of head constable, within their respective jurisdiction, as authorized ofﬁcer to act in respect of any offence committed. Any person who is convicted shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years or with a fine which may extend to Rs 10,000 or with both. In exercise of powers conferred by section 4 of the Ordinance, the regulations to be observed by persons to prevent the outbreak of the Covid-19 include: “Every person shall wear face mask or face cover (nose and mouth covered properly) in public or work place.” “No shopkeeper shall sell any item to a person who is not wearing face mask or face cover properly. No person shall spit in public place. No person shall consume liquor in any public place. No person shall sell paan, gutka, tobacco etc. Every person shall maintain social distancing (minimum 6 feet from the other person) in public place.” It also stated, “No person shall organise any marriage related function or gathering without prior intimation in writing submitted in the ofﬁce of the sub-divisional Magistrate, and shall also be responsible to ensure that social distancing is maintained throughout the function and that the total number of persons does not exceed 50.” “There shall not be more than 20 persons at funerals / last rites and social distancing shall be ensured. No person shall organize any other kind of social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious function and other gatherings,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-notifies-covid-19-as-epidemic-disease/articleshow/75524372.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Six-year-old boy tests positive in Satara||KOLHAPUR: A 6-year-old-boy—a close contact of a Covid-19 positive patient identified earlier— tested positive for the infection on Sunday. The boy is being treated at the sub-district hospital in Phaltan. With the latest case, the total number of positive cases in Satara district stands at 77, of which 66 are active cases. Meanwhile, officials from the district administration said that as many as 58 citizens, who were close contacts of the positive patients identified recently, have been kept under isolation in different hospitals across the district. While 29 suspects have been kept in isolation at the district hospital in Satara, 25 suspects have been put in the sub-district hospital in Karad and four at the Krishna Medical College, Karad. Officials from the health department said that their throat swab samples have been collected and sent for testing and their results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-yr-old-boy-tests-positive-in-satara/articleshow/75523231.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||03-corona-migrants||935 migrant workers sent to UP today Jaipur: The district administration on Sunday sent 935 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, who were residing at various shelter homes in Sanganer, Chaksu, Jaipur, Chomu, Aamer and Dudu sub-divisions on RSRTC buses to their home districts.  They were sent to 40 different districts in the state including Etah, Etawah, Banda, Badayun, Kanpur, Kusumbi, Kannauj, Mainpuri, Mirzapur, Chitrakoot, Hardoi, Hathras, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Chandauli, Farukhabad, Fatehpur, Agra, Aligarh and Lalitpur.  Meanwhile, about 11 civil society groups on Sunday wrote to ACS industry and urged him to regulate the fares charged by private operators to drop migrants workers in Bihar.  “Most of the private buses are overcharging to drop the migrant workers and the rate ranges from Rs 4500 to 5000. Strict action should be taken against private bus operators who overcharge the migrant workers going to Bihar from Sitapura industrial area,” they wrote. “There must be transport administrative authority for the movement of buses. Timetable should be prepared for train departures and transparency ensured for passenger selection.” Shamsher Khan, who works at a factory in Sitapura said, “I could not go to Supaul district in Bihar today. The bus operators were charging Rs 4,500. I didn’t have so much money. If the government provides train services, we can easily go.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/03-corona-migrants/articleshow/75524373.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||SARI patient among 14 new Covid-19 cases in Solapur||Kolhapur: As many as 14 new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported from Solapur city on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 128. The total number of active cases stands at 103. According to the district administration, one of the 14 Covid-19 positive patients, a resident of Nayi Jindagi area in Solapur, also has severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The remaining 13 patients are all close contacts of positive cases identified earlier. Of the 13 patients, four patients are from Bapuji Nagar, three from Forest Chandani chowk area, two patients each from Shastri Nagar and Indira Nagar while Bhadravati Peth and Lashkar Sadar Bazar reported one patient each. “On Sunday, we received the pending reports of 213 swab samples, of which 14 returned positive. Till date, we have tested 2,080 people, of which 1,759 have tested negative and 128 positive. The reports of as many as 193 suspects are still awaited,” stated the report released by the district administration. Meanwhile, the Solapur Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started a survey of SARI patients across the city. Around 46 squads have been formed which have already surveyed around 10.08 lakh citizens across the city. The civic officials have said that they have opened around 24 fever OPDs, where around 229 people have been checked. 11 people have been asked to report for further check-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sari-patient-among-14-new-covid-19-cases-in-solapur/articleshow/75523256.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||New Parl essential to revamp old one: CPWD||New Delhi: Countering objections to the proposal of constructing a new Parliament building in view of the impact of the novel coronavirus on state finances, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has said the project is of "utmost importance" as the existing building is very old and is in “dire need of retrofitting”, according to the minutes of proceedings of expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the environment ministry. The EAC had sought response from the CPWD, which will execute construction of the new Parliament building, to an observation that the cost of the project had already increased to Rs 922 crore from Rs 776 crore between February and April. The EAC cited some of the objections which said: “There is no guarantee that the costs will not escalate more. At a time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to prioritise government spending for medical facilities and public health infrastructure.” In its response, CPWD said the existing Parliament building was constructed 93 years ago. “Over the years, many planned/ unplanned changes have been made, often undocumented. It is in dire need of retrofitting as soon as possible. This can only be done once the building is vacant and that will happen once the new building is made available. Therefore, development of the proposed Parliament building is of utmost importance,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-parl-essential-to-revamp-old-one-cpwd/articleshow/75517845.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Satranjipura woman delivers baby in GMCH Covid-19 isolation ward||Nagpur: A 23-year-old woman from Satranjipura, city’s first Covid-19 hotspot, gave birth to a baby boy at Covid-19 isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at 2.20am on Sunday. It is district’s second case when a woman who tested positive for Covid-19 has delivered in isolation ward. The earlier one was from Mominpura. Baby girl of Mominpura’s 28-year-old woman has tested negative.GMCH doctors told TOI, “Woman and baby may get discharge in a day or two. It was normal delivery. Both mother and baby are healthy and doing well. Baby’s weight was 2.2kg and cried after delivery,” doctors said.The woman was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 18. Doctors at GMCH made special arrangements for her care and delivery also. “She is a asymptomatic carrier. She tested negative twice in a row on April 30 and May 1. So, we decided to keep the baby with mother for regular breastfeeding,” said a doctor from OBGY department of GMCH.The woman completed 14 days of isolation period on Sunday. If all parameters are normal, the baby and mother will be discharged in a day or two.Woman from Mominpura had given birth to girl few hours after testing positive for Covid-19 at IGGMCH on April 29 .Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pandey told TOI that samples of girl were taken on first and third day, and both tested negative,” he said.On Sunday, a 48-year-old woman from Dobi Nagar near Ansar Nagar in Mominpura tested positive. She was quarantined being a contact of woman who delivered baby. The number of positive cases from this chain increased to three with a man testing positive on Saturday.Now, number of cases from Mominpura increased to 30, making this locality city’s second Covid-19 hotspot.The number of corona positive from the district reached to 151.Civil surgeon VD Paturkar cleared confusion over one positive person from May 1 and 2. “We are counting a woman from Warud, Amravati district, in cases of Nagpur district. She was admitted at GMCH and tested positive. Later, we will recommend that she be counted in Amravati district being a resident of Warud,” he said.With the latest one, cases of other districts being counted in Nagpur district increased to three with earlier two from Chandrapur.The NMC’s tally is 146, excluding two cases from Chandrapur, and one each from Warud, Kamptee and Kanhan.On Sunday night, around 20 people from Choodi Gully, Mominpura, were quarantined. 14 members of a family from this area, including 70-year-old deceased, had tested positive.On Saturday, 76 people were quarantined from Dobi Nagar. Earlier, 198 were quarantined from all areas of Mominpura.Satranjipura has reported 97 cases. Reports of many people from the list of 402 who were quarantined on April 29 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-woman-delivers-baby-in-gmch-covid-19-isolation-ward/articleshow/75524051.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders object to govt’s directive of opening 5 shops in a road||Kolhapur: The traders raised an objection to the state goverment’s directive that only five non-essential shops will be allowed to remain open along one side of a road or a lane. All the shops selling essentials will remain open The non-essential shops, private offices in the city will be open from Monday. The traders have objected to it saying that this has created confusion among them since most of the shops in major business places will remain shut and it will be unjust to them. Ajit Kothari, the president of Kolhapur Electricals Association said, “Suppose there are more than five shops in a lane or a road which is the case in many places in the city. Who will decide which shops to remain open? Will they be allowed to open every day or once when their turn comes? We want clear directions. We will keep the shops close if there is no clarification from the administration.” The central government had ordered to allow both essentials and non-essentials to open in the orange zone district. However, the state government has taken the decision to allow the limited number of non-essential shops to remain open. The industrialists have demanded exemption for the industrial workers to travel back home at any time. The government has imposed ban on travel from 7pm to 7am. The district administration has sought clarification over this rule from the state government. The liquor shops will remain open in the city and rural parts of the district excluding the containment zones. The state excise department has issued the guidelines. The liquor shops will remain open from 10am to 6pm. The shop license holder must ensure that the premise is disinfected every two hours and not more than five customers are allowed at one time, maintaining distance of six feet from each other. The pan shops and shops selling tobacco items will remain shut till the lockdown is in place. The inter-district or intra-district public bus transport will not ply. However, private vehicles will be allowed with limited number of passengers. The schools and other educational institutes will remain shut. Also in public places, the prohibitory orders limiting the gathering of not more than five people will be in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-object-to-govts-directive-of-opening-5-shops-in-a-road/articleshow/75523267.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi's birds bear brunt of human boredom||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s bird hospitals — listed under essential services — are functioning during the anti-coronavirus lockdown and staying quite busy. The reason — kites. Over 60-70% cases received at bird hospitals across the city are due to manjha (kite string) injuries while the remaining are animal bites and injuries received from falling from the nest. Veterinarians say there has been a spike in the number of manjha injuries, with people taking to kite flying during the lockdown, particularly in parts of central, east and west Delhi. Despite the lockdown, Jain Bird hospital in Chandni Chowk is receiving 10-15 bird cases each day. Sunil Jain, manager at the hospital, said that 70% of cases coming in are injuries from kite string, followed by attacks from other animals like cats. Even though kite flying is particularly popular in the nearby Old Delhi area, the hospital is receiving cases from parts of east, west and central Delhi, Jain claimed. According to him, the hospital currently has close to 3,000 birds, with a large number of injuries being black kites. “People are still bringing in 10-15 birds each day on an average. This number used to be 50-60 birds prior to the lockdown. However, it is still a significant number,” said Jain, who added that the lockdown has proved to be tricky, as their donations have dried up. “People would earlier come physically and donate money. Ever since the lockdown, that has stopped and we are low on funds,” he claimed, requesting people to donate money through their website to help birds during this period. While the bird hospital does treat raptors (birds of prey), it does not feed them — a task which is undertaken by wildlife rescue, a bird rescue hospital in Wazirabad. The hospital has close to 100 raptors, a majority of which are black kites. “The shikra breeding season generally starts in May and their numbers will rise to. Black kites are facing the brunt from manjha. Most injuries are due to people flying kites during the lockdown, which can cause considerable damage to the wings of a bird,” said Nadeem Shehzad (42), who runs the centre with his brother, Mohammad Saud. Shehzad said while they did purchase a month’s stock of chicken for the birds before the lockdown began, they are now starting to run out of food. “We will have to replenish our stock. Around 10-12 kg of chicken is fed to the birds each day,” he claimed. “We are also going around the city, collecting raptors from hospitals, which have been treated and then released,” said Shehzad, asking people to reach out and donate to help the birds sustain during this period. Meanwhile, Ambika Shukla from Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre said that it has been a double-whammy, with birds coming in either with manjha injuries or are hungry and thirsty. “Black kites would generally be able to survive through kitchen waste and prey on other birds, but that has gone down during the lockdown. We are getting a lot of cases of birds that are hungry and thirsty, while some have been badly wounded,” Shukla explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/birds-bear-brunt-of-human-boredom/articleshow/75524639.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Staff nurse at AIIMS Rishikesh found Covid-19-positive||Dehradun: A staff nurse in urology department of AIIMS Rishikesh was found Covid-19-positive on Sunday taking the toll of Covid-19 patients in Uttarakhand to 60. This is the fourth case of a healthcare professional getting infected in AIIMS Rishikesh in last one week. Dr Madhur Uniyal from AIIMS Rishikesh informed that the institution has started collecting the data of the primary and secondary contacts of the nursing staff. “The staff nurse, who has been found Covid-19 positive, was working in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the medicine department where a coronavirus positive patient from Nainital was admitted till last week. She was deployed in the ICU from April 15 to April 25. The nurse developed fever on April 26 but she took medicines on her own and didn’t get coronavirus test done,” said Dr Uniyal, while adding that she found was found Covid-19 positive after every staff member deployed in the ICU of the medicine department was tested for the virus. The institution will now quarantine everyone who has come in contact with the nurse as a precautionary measure and they will be tested as well. So far, six coronavirus positive cases have come up at AIIMS Rishikesh. Among these cases, four are staff members of the institution and while one patient had died of the disease at the facility last week, another one is undergoing treatment. Notably, AIIMS Rishikesh has been divided into two zones — Covid-19 cases/suspects are kept in the first zone and the other one is reserved for patients suffering from other ailments. However, all the four staff members who have tested positive for Covid-19 were deployed in the non-Covid-19 zone of the hospital. Meanwhile, a CRPF man from Joshimath area of Chamoli district was admitted to the district hospital on Sunday after he showed coronavirus-like symptoms. The health department has sent his samples for testing. The jawan had recently visited New Delhi along with his troop. The health department has also home quarantined around 27 staff members of a private hospital in Dehradun. These people had come in contact with the Covid-19 patient who was tested positive at a private facility in New Delhi but had returned to his home in city’s Chaman Vihar colony on Saturday (May 2). Till now, the health department has tested samples of 7,578 cases across the state. Among these, 60 have been found Covid-19 positive. AT present, the recovery rate in the Himalayan state is 65% as 39 patients have already recovered since March 15, the day when the first Covid-19 case was reported from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/staff-nurse-at-aiims-rishikesh-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75523283.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 2.6k industrialists apply online for starting operations||Kolhapur: As many as 2,631 industrialists from Kolhapur district have applied online for getting permission to start their operations. According to the district administration, 659 industries have started operations with a workforce of 11,611 employees. District collector Daulat Desai said, “Till Saturday evening, 2,621 industrialists from Kolhapur sought approval for starting operations in the MIDC web portal. Of this, 421 applied seeking permission to transport employees via mini-bus, four wheelers and other vehicles to the workplace. We have granted permission to 320 applicants to use 683 vehicles to transport the workers from their homes to MIDC.” Desai added that around 1,624 industries have not applied for any kind of travel pass for their employees indicating that the workers could manage on their own to reach to the industrial units. Sanjay Shete, chairman of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries said, “Industries have started their operations, albeit with some technical problems. Now, with the relaxation in lockdown rules in some parts of the country, industrialists can now get raw material for their industries and find markets to sell their products.” “However, the problems of some industries like foundries still persist. The foundry business is the backbone of Kolhapur industry and it mostly thrives on the orders it gets from the automobile industries from MIDC, Pune district. Since the operations of these industries have been put on hold as Pune is in red zone, the foundries here could not start their operations due to lack of new orders,” said Shete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-2-6k-industrialists-apply-online-for-starting-operations/articleshow/75523276.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Video of tiger walking in coffee estate goes viral||Madikeri: A video of a tiger moving freely in a coffee estate in Kodagu has gone viral on social media. According to sources, Adeganda Dinesh, a resident of Balele village, and his family were on their way to Rajapura village in a car on Saturday evening when they spotted a tiger in a coffee estate. When Dinesh and his family was driving through a private estate owned by Podamanda Ashok, they were shocked to see a lone tiger walking in the pathway of the coffee estate. The incident occurred around 5.20 pm near Nagarahole forests. Rolling up the car window, Dinesh halted his vehicle and shot a video of the tiger walking through the estate. Dinesh stated that the tiger looked back at the car and then walked into the estate. The video shared by Dinesh indicates that the tiger has some minor injuries on its hind limbs, which might have forced it to enter the estate to look for an easy meal. The residents of Balele and Rajapura villages and estate workers are in fear even as they have urged for the capture of the tiger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/video-of-tiger-walking-in-coffee-estate-goes-viral/articleshow/75522372.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Doon admin issues guidelines as govt offices set to open from today||Dehradun: As all government offices are set to open between 10 am and 4 pm from Monday (May 4) onwards, the Dehradun district administration has issued guidelines which must be followed by employees. The guidelines detail the precautions to be taken like maintaining social distancing norms, thermal screening of employees, commute timings, among other preventive measures. The government employees will be issued special passes for commuting by their department heads. The details of these passes will also be shared with the office of Senior Superintendent of Police and District Magistrate. According to the guidelines, employees will be allowed to commute between 9 am and 10 am and in the evening, between 3.30 pm and 4.30 pm. The officials said that the department heads will ensure dispersal of employees in a manner that does not violate the norms of social distancing. The seating arrangement for the staff has been arranged in a manner to ensure a distance of at least six feet between employees. Also, employees have been asked to use staircase rather than cramped lifts. The lunch timings have also be extended to help employees so that they can have their lunch in small batches. The employees have been asked to carry only home-cooked food and personal utensils for drinking water and tea. As for inspection of employees, facility of thermal scanning has been ensured with availability of hand wash and sanitiser at the entrance of offices. It has also been made mandatory for the employees to show their passes to the security staff for entering office premises as entry for visitors and general public has been prohibited for some time. The district administration has also exempted pregnant women, employees above the age of 55 years, women employees with children less than 10 years of age, and those having any co-morbid conditions from attending the office. In addition, the employees living in areas which are currently under the containment zone will not be allowed to move out. The department heads have also been asked to ensure cleaning of water tanks and toilets. The guidelines also mandate installing the Aarogya Setu App and wearing face masks for the employees. For departments involved in public dealing, employees have been asked to request the people to submit their applications through e-mail and fax or drop them in the box placed outside the offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-issues-guidelines-as-govt-offices-set-to-open-from-today/articleshow/75523304.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Police increase surveillance on roads connecting Kolhapur to Pune, Mumbai||Kolhapur: With the lockdown norms being relaxed to some extent from May 4, police have increased surveillance on the borders connecting Kolhapur district to other parts of the state. Police will be keeping a watch on the flow of traffic from Pune and Mumbai— the two cities worst affected by Covid-19 outbreak in the state. Surveillance has been increased at Kini toll plaza on the Pune-Bangalore national highway and the arterial roads through which people can enter the district. Police will strictly check the travel passes and also ask people the reason for travelling from other parts of the state to Kolhapur district. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police, Karveer division said, “Given the traffic flow that is likely going to increase from other parts of the state to Kolhapur, we have increased the surveillance on the Pune-Bangalore national highway and at the check posts erected on the roads connecting to other districts. All the vehicles entering and leaving the district will be allowed to move forward only after confirming they have obtained the online travel pass and verifying their reason for travelling.” According to police, surveillance has been intensified at the check posts after three people were caught for planning to move to Rajasthan by furnishing wrong information and securing a travel pass for Tamil Nadu. Till Saturday evening, as many as 12,000 people had applied to enter into Kolhapur district and the number is likely to increase. “The extended lockdown and the relaxation in norms from May 4, coupled with the rise in the number of applications to enter Kolhapur district, is likely to manifest into heavy traffic flow on Monday. However, we are prepared to tackle the situation,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-increase-surveillance-on-roads-connecting-kolhapur-to-pune-mumbai/articleshow/75523287.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur police trace truck driver who gave lift to man from Kanan Nagar||KOLHAPUR: City police have managed to trace the truck driver who had brought a Kanan Nagar resident to Kolhapur from Mumbai in the former’s vehicle on April 29. After being dropped in Kolhapur, the man’s throat swab sample was tested and he was found positive for Covid-19. According to police, the truck driver has a license to transport vegetable from Karnataka’s Haveli district to Mumbai. On his way back to Karnataka, the driver had given lift to the Kanan Nagar resident and dropped him at Tawade hotel. A case has been registered at Shahupuri police station. "After the person was admitted to CPR hospital, we launched a search operation to find out the driver who brought him from Mumbai. After the Kanan Nagar resident tested positive, we intensified our search and through the CCTV cameras installed at the Kini toll plaza we managed to spot the truck and from the truck’s registration number we zeroed in on the driver. We have registered a case against three people — the truck driver, his assistant and the patient," an officer attached with Shahupuri police station said. The suspects have been booked under several sections i269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 51(B) of National Disaster Management Act, section 11 of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Act, 2020, sections 2 and 3 of Prevention of Epidemic Act, 1897 and section 66/192 of the Motor Vehicle Act. "We have shared the information with the police in Haveli district who will quarantine the driver and take appropriate action," the officer said. "The patient, after being dropped at Tawade hotel, took a lift in a tempo and reached Kanan Nagar. We are also searching for the tempo driver to ensure the spread of Covid-19," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-trace-truck-driver-who-gave-lift-to-man-from-kanan-nagar/articleshow/75523295.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||No private hospital planned for a pandemic: Dr Anup Marar||Nagpur: The administration in Nagpur wants to use private hospitals to combat Covid-19 by treating positive patients there. This has upset those who run the private hospitals. On behalf of Vidarbha Hospitals Association, its convener Dr Anup Marar, who is also the managing director of the Orange City Hospitals and Research Institute, speaks to TOI on why it is a faulty move and likely to cause more problems.Excerpts:Can you explain what exactly is the problem?We have an excellent relationship with the administration and have even loaned equipment to government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Suddenly, The administration came out with a list of 12 hospitals which were asked to be in a state of readiness to treat positive patients. All this had to be done under specified norms inside two days. We are already working under strain, so how can we create infrastructural facilities like rest rooms, isolation wards etc? We just don’t have the wherewithal.Are private hospitals equipped to treat Covid-19 patients?Some newer hospitals do have isolation blocks. Not the older ones. Whenever we would get contagious disease cases we would refer them to isolation hospitals. It is not technically possible to convert private hospitals with all norms. Who would be accountable for the shortcomings? The accountability should lie with the government if at all it intends to process the order.Has the administration been receptive to your problems?The VHA has written to the administration pointing out the shortcomings under 4-5 heads. I don’t blame the authorities who are trying to be very proactive. But who is going to bear the recurring financial expenses? We had earlier suggested that all government hospitals with buffer land should be converted into Covid hospitals.Can all hospitals be blocked for Covid treatment?No, where will the accident and delivery cases go? Private hospitals can treat all non-Covid cases under government schemes. Hospitals in residential areas should be kept for non-Covid patients.The administration has been saying it has all powers to take over private hospitals.No, not taking over which would mean handing over our buildings to it. We have only been asked to be in a state of readiness and create facilities. This is the problem.Is treating non-Covid patients the only way private hospitals can contribute during this pandemic?The situation is very dynamic. What the future holds nobody knows. Considering the beds available in secondary and tertiary care, segregation of Covid-19 patients is the best thing to do now. Asymptomatic patients should not be hospitalized. They should be home quarantined or based in institutional facilities so that the available resources can be used beneficially. Every bed has to be for serious patients only. The VHA has also suggested that portable bedside oxygen concentrators be made available. This is easier than having piped oxygen or ventilators.What would happen after all government hospitals are full?The projected numbers are scary. If it increases, the solution could be to place patients in big halls with separate entries. If the projection goes into lakhs, patients will have to be at their homes with oxygen. It is a new thing for everybody.Would private hospitals be willing to treat Covid patients for a cost?Many in Delhi and Mumbai already have isolation blocks. They can surely consider this. Nagpur has always been a city of nursing homes with 50-100 beds scattered all over. In bigger cities, the private hospitals have 500-800 bed capacity. In Nagpur there is not enough land.Private hospitals seem to be worried of the damage to their reputation.We know our goodwill will go up if we are part of the Covid treatment. But, right now, it is a scary situation. If the virus spreads to other parts, will we be held responsible? Some patients have charged hospitals and even doctors have got infected from patients. In such cases, the entire hospital gets blocked and the team quarantined for 14 days. No private hospital has planned for a pandemic.Have you approached higher authorities?All are worried about the future and how we can be part of the process. Private hospitals cannot shirk away from our responsibilities. We have play within the limitations and overcome the shortcomings. Meetings are on for a mutually agreeable decision. (Watch the interview on facebook.com/toinagpur & twitter.com/TOI_Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-private-hospital-planned-for-a-pandemic-dr-anup-marar/articleshow/75523969.cms||Sunil Warrier
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Nine test +ve at north corporation hospitals||New Delhi: On Sunday, nine new Covid-19 cases were reported from three north corporation hospitals, including three doctors each from Hindu Rao Hospital and Kasturba Hospital. The other three included a patient and two relatives of the two nurses of Hindi Rao Hospital who had earlier tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In the past one week, total 15 positive cases, including four doctors and two nurses from Hindu Rao; five doctors from Kasturba; a ward aaya from Rajan Babu TB (RBTB) Hospital and three non-employees, have been reported, a senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said. All these people are at present in quarantine. The first case was reported in Hindu Rao Hospital on April 25 after a nurse tested positive for the coronavirus. Meanwhile, the civic agency has decided to take action against a lab technician of Hindu Rao Hospital who continued to come to work despite him and his wife testing positive for the coronavirus. Earlier, a video had gone viral in which the technician alleged no response from the helpline number (1075) for getting his rest of the family members tested. He told TOI that he was upset over it. “Later, my department arranged for the test of my mother and my children and I am thankful to them. I was not going to the hospital since April 30,” he said. However, the north corporation official claimed: “The lab technician’s wife was declared positive on April 28, but he did not tell us and kept coming to work till May 2. His own report had come on May 1. Only on May 2, he informed us and left for home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nine-test-ve-at-north-corporation-hospitals/articleshow/75524642.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: National-level wrestler among two booked for assaulting tehsildar||KOLHAPUR: Two people, including a national-level wrestler, have been booked by Vita police for allegedly manhandling a tehsildar in Sangli district over illegal hoarding of sand. Ravindra Shelke, police inspector in-charge of Vita police station, said, "Based on the complaint filed by tehsildar Rishikesh Shelke, we have registered case against the duo." He added, "Last month, a team of Vita tehsil office raided a construction site belonging to the wrestler and found that he had illegally hoarded sand without paying the tax on it. Following this, Shelke slapped a fine of Rs 7.50 lakh on him. On Sunday the wrestler along with one more person approached Shelke at Vita Tehsil office and demanded to reduce amount of the fine. When Shelke stated that the fine amount is as per law and cannot be changed, the duo allegedly manhandled him. Other employees on duty intervened following which the duo later ran away. Shelke later lodged complaint with us," he said. The duo has been booked under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51(1) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/natl-level-wrestler-among-2-booked-for-assaulting-thesildar/articleshow/75523305.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Migrant workers attack cops, ASP & SDM among 5 hurt||BARWANI: Some 7,000 migrant workers blocked Agra-Bombay Road in Bijasan in MP’s Barwani – a red zone -- on Sunday and attacked police, injuring the additional SP, an SDM and three other police personnel. They are angry at being blocked on the Maharashtra-MP border and demand to be allowed to pass through MP on their way to UP, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha. For the last two days, they have been pressuring the Barwani district administration to let them through, and squatted on Agra-Mumbai NH a few times, but were persuaded to call off the protest. Violence erupted on Sunday. Bijasan police station in-charge Kavita Kanesh said the migrants blocked the highway with big stones and logs, which led to a big jam. When a police team tried to clear the road, they were attacked. The vehicles of Barwani ASP Sunita Rawat and Sendhwa SDM Ghanshyam Dhangar were damaged, resulting in injuries to both officers. Police had to resort to mild force to dispel the protestors. The standoff lasted five hours and ended only after reassurances by Barwani district collector Amit Tomar. In the chaos, dozens of migrants are suspected to have taken to the hills to dodge the cops. “As police didn't allow the workers coming from Maharashtra to go any further, they blocked Agra-Bombay highway in the morning and resorted to stone pelting. Three policemen were injured,” Tomar told mediapersons. The injured cops were taken to Government Civil Hospital in Sendhwa, 18km away. In the evening, DIG-Nimar Zone Tilak Singh and other senior officers went to the border town to take stock of the situation. An additional company of quick reaction force has been deployed and food was being arranged for the migrants, Singh said. The workers were forced to leave Maharashtra – the state worst affected by Covid-19 – due to shortage of food and the fear of infection. Most of them decided to walk home although their home states are well over 1,500km way. On April 30, the first of them arrived at Bijasan. “They were stopped at the border, screened as per government directives and out on buses to UP,” said the collector. However, as Uttar Pradesh has sealed its borders, they couldn’t reach their destinations. After that the Barwani administration decided to stop workers coming from Maharashtra at the border itself. In the last two days, the tide of homebound migrants swelled up at the dam to about 7,000. And the tussle began with the administration. There are unconfirmed reports that three migrants have died over the past fortnight trying to cut through forests and hills to bypass the Bijasan checkpoint. Collector Tomar said the MP government is discussing the matter with UP, and a solution is expected soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/migrant-workers-attack-cops-asp-sdm-among-5-hurt/articleshow/75524396.cms||Animesh Jain
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Little nous behind the numbers in TN||CHENNAI: When Tamil Nadu received its first big alert of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state with the arrival of a contingent of Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members from Delhi, the first instruction to district collectors was to test them and their contacts who showed symptoms. Read the entire story on TOI+ Is random sampling of tests too random?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/little-nous-behind-the-numbers-in-tn/articleshow/75523972.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Courier services, saloons to start service from Monday||KOLHAPUR: Few businesses in the city will start functioning in the third phase of the lockdown starting May 4 after the state government declared Kolhapur as an orange zone on Friday. Lifting the restrictions zone-wise, the government has permitted the courier services and saloon shops to be open during this two-week window. Uttam Patil, who runs Akash Ganga Courier Service, has been constantly getting calls from his customers since Sunday morning. Many people have been inquiring how to send medicines, spices and summer snacks to their relatives in Pune and Mumbai. "I have received at least 290 calls since morning. I have been convincing my customers that our service depends on private transport which is not allowed to ply as per the guidelines. It is not affordable to transport the parcels to places like Pune and Mumbai as both cities have become Covid-19 hotspots. Many of the courier service providers have decided to keep our operations shut till the end of the lockdown. We do not know the standard operating procedures and to ensure none of my staff members get infected in this time," he said. There are over 80 courier agencies in the city, which couriers to many states as well as districts. The service to the nearby Sindhudurg district is likely to resume since the district falls in the green zone. On the other hand, Ganesh Raut is giving time slots to people willing to get a haircut at his shop at Sasane Ground. And the response that he has been getting from customers is overwhelming as the bookings for four days are already full. "I have managed to get one sterilising machine which will help kill the virus and keep the shop sterilised. Also, I have arranged hand gloves, which will be used for each customer. To avoid any rush I have been asking the customers to get the appointment registered first. We are prepared to run the shops 24 hours a day. However, the authorities have told us that no shop should remain open from 7 pm to 7 am,” he said. As timings have been declared by the administration, he is now looking for solutions to get more haircuts in this time. On the other hand, private offices are unlikely to start soon even though they are allowed with 33% of workers. An owner of one of the private accounting agency said, "I have a staff of 10 including me. Considering the norm, I can permit two others in the office. For the first few days, I will get the cleaning of the offices done and after that, I will decide whom to call office and whom to be asked for work from home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/courier-services-saloons-to-start-service-from-monday/articleshow/75523316.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Another spike in nCov cases, 36 more infected||Vadodara: The city recorded yet another spike in Covid-19 cases with 36 more persons getting infected since Saturday morning in Vadodara. An elderly woman also passed away due to the virus. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city increased to 386 with the fresh cases being reported. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that the spike in the fresh cases was due to extensive testing in the areas that were witnessing a large number of cases. A 78-year-old woman, Shakila Doodhwala, residing in the Nagarwada area of the city became the latest victim of the disease. She died at the SSG Hospital in the early hours on Sunday and was buried at the Matariya Kabrastan later as per protocol. With this Covid-19 claimed its 25th victim in the city. According to data provided by the civic body, as many as 215 persons remained hospitalised due to the epidemic in the city. These include 11 on oxygen and six on ventilator or BiPAP machines. The condition of 198 patients is stable. Four more persons were discharged from two different facilities in the city taking the total number of patients discharged so far to 146. In a major departure from the trend so far, cases were reported from the eastern zone of the city on Sunday. The trend so far has been of north zone witnessing more cases due to red zone Nagarwada and surrounding areas. Till Saturday the east zone had seen 60 cases and 30 were added on a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-spike-in-ncov-cases-36-more-infected/articleshow/75522810.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Over 2,200 students from Bihar leave Kota in 2 spl trains||Kota: The much-awaited relief for nearly 12,000 students from various areas of Bihar stuck in Kota came on Sunday when over 2,200 students from Begusarai zone left for their home destinations by two special trains. The third train is set to depart with nearly 1,200 students from Gaya zone on Sunday night. The two special trains will ferry around 1,100-1,200 students of Bihar every day from May 3-6. A situation of ruckus and violation of social distancing was witnessed on Sunday morning when a large number of students from Bihar stormed Kota railway station hoping to board the train. However, only those students getting permission on mobile from district administration were allowed to board the train. The special passenger train on Sunday carried at least 1,211 students belonging to various areas in Begusarai zone of Bihar. But, still a large number of students from the area were left behind. So, another special train was immediately arranged after Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla intervened. “I spoke to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and arranged for one more train as I had received information about a large number of students waiting at the railway station. The additional special Kota-Barauni (Begusarai) train will leave the Kota station between 3-4pm,” Birla, who is also an MP from Kota-Bundi, tweeted on Sunday. “Following the arrangement of additional special train, at least another 1,050 students from Begusarai zone left in the train from Kota railway station at 3.45pm on Sunday,” said Nitesh Sharma, an official of Allen Career Institute, coordinating with Kota district administration in the task. Nearly 1,100-1,200 students from Gaya zone are set to leave from Kota at 9pm on Sunday, he added. “The two trains Kota-Barauni (Begusarai) with Bihar students left from Kota railway station at noon and afternoon on Sunday. Another special train with students of Gaya zone is scheduled to depart from Kota at 9pm on Sunday,” said Pankaj Sharma, DRM, Kota Railways. Cheering the students with claps, the officials of Kota district administration and coaching institutes extended a warm send off to the students. “I am very relieved and thankful to the government and my institute that I am eventually leaving for home in Begusarai today. We were facing great troubles and hardships here amid the lockdown and were desperately waiting for the permission to return,” said Raviraj. Only 50 students were allowed in a coach to maintain social distancing. Notably, these students from Bihar had been protesting in Kota appealing to Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government to call them back. Around 50-60 students were booked a few days back for violating Section 144 and lockdown norms by assembling to protest in Landmark City area near their hostel. The hostel proprietors and coaching institute director were also booked for instigating the students to protest. Pictures: LS Speaker Om Birla's tweet and pics of students of Bihar on the way to home state by special train on Sunday noon in Kota||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-2200-students-from-bihar-leave-kota-in-2-spl-trains/articleshow/75524395.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||No private hospital planned for a pandemic: Dr Anup Marar||NAGPUR: The administration in Nagpur wants to use private hospitals to combat Covid-19 by treating positive patients there. This has upset those who run the private hospitals. On behalf of Vidarbha Hospitals Association, its convener Dr Anup Marar, who is also the managing director of the Orange City Hospitals and Research Institute, speaks to TOI on why it is a faulty move and likely to cause more problems. Can you explain what exactly is the problem?We have an excellent relationship with the administration and have even loaned equipment to government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Suddenly, The administration came out with a list of 12 hospitals which were asked to be in a state of readiness to treat positive patients. All this had to be done under specified norms inside two days. We are already working under strain, so how can we create infrastructural facilities like rest rooms, isolation wards etc? We just don’t have the wherewithal. Are private hospitals equipped to treat Covid-19 patients?Some newer hospitals do have isolation blocks. Not the older ones. Whenever we would get contagious disease cases we would refer them to isolation hospitals. It is not technically possible to convert private hospitals with all norms. Who would be accountable for the shortcomings? The accountability should lie with the government if at all it intends to process the order. Has the administration been receptive to your problems?The VHA has written to the administration pointing out the shortcomings under 4-5 heads. I don’t blame the authorities who are trying to be very proactive. But who is going to bear the recurring financial expenses? We had earlier suggested that all government hospitals with buffer land should be converted into Covid hospitals. Can all hospitals be blocked for Covid treatment?No, where will the accident and delivery cases go? Private hospitals can treat all non-Covid cases under government schemes. Hospitals in residential areas should be kept for non-Covid patients. The administration has been saying it has all powers to take over private hospitals. No, not taking over which would mean handing over our buildings to it. We have only been asked to be in a state of readiness and create facilities. This is the problem. Is treating non-Covid patients the only way private hospitals can contribute during this pandemic?The situation is very dynamic. What the future holds nobody knows. Considering the beds available in secondary and tertiary care, segregation of Covid-19 patients is the best thing to do now. Asymptomatic patients should not be hospitalized. They should be home quarantined or based in institutional facilities so that the available resources can be used beneficially. Every bed has to be for serious patients only. The VHA has also suggested that portable bedside oxygen concentrators be made available. This is easier than having piped oxygen or ventilators. What would happen after all government hospitals are full?The projected numbers are scary. If it increases, the solution could be to place patients in big halls with separate entries. If the projection goes into lakhs, patients will have to be at their homes with oxygen. It is a new thing for everybody. Would private hospitals be willing to treat Covid patients for a cost?Many in Delhi and Mumbai already have isolation blocks. They can surely consider this. Nagpur has always been a city of nursing homes with 50-100 beds scattered all over. In bigger cities, the private hospitals have 500-800 bed capacity. In Nagpur there is not enough land. Private hospitals seem to be worried of the damage to their reputation. We know our goodwill will go up if we are part of the Covid treatment. But, right now, it is a scary situation. If the virus spreads to other parts, will we be held responsible? Some patients have charged hospitals and even doctors have got infected from patients. In such cases, the entire hospital gets blocked and the team quarantined for 14 days. No private hospital has planned for a pandemic. Have you approached higher authorities?All are worried about the future and how we can be part of the process. Private hospitals cannot shirk away from our responsibilities. We have play within the limitations and overcome the shortcomings. Meetings are on for a mutually agreeable decision. (Watch the interview on facebook.com/toinagpur & twitter.com/TOI_Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-private-hospital-planned-for-a-pandemic-dr-anup-marar/articleshow/75523984.cms||Sunil Warrier
May 4, 2020||Chandigarh||5 UK Sikh doctors ‘removed’ for refusing to shave beards||Five orthodox Sikh doctors working in the NHS were temporarily removed from frontline duty after refusing to shave their beard to fit into protective masks, it has emerged. Dr Sukhdev Singh, chairman of the Sikh Doctors Association, said the doctors had approached him after being removed from frontline roles because their hospitals did not have adequate powered air purifying respirators (PAPRs). The enclosed perspex hoods, which cover the turban and beard, can be worn instead of FFP3 or N95 masks in intensive care and high dependency units. He said the problem had arisen because NHS trusts had procured equipment “blindly” without assessing the needs of their Jewish, Muslim and Sikh staff. There are an estimated 200 orthodox Sikh doctors working in the NHS. “Half the hospital trusts only have 10P PAPRs in the whole trust,” Singh said. One of the doctors, a Sikh consultant anaesthetist aged 40 working at a hospital in the Midlands, “was given a choice to either shave his beard or be taken off his role into a secondary role,” Singh said, as he could not fit into the FF93 mask, which has to have a full seal between the skin and the mask. “So he stuck to his religious convictions and was taken out of the operating theatre and asked to come off his on-call rota,” Singh said. “His consultant colleagues had to take over his duties during a stressful pandemic, which caused tensions between them. After a few days, he contacted me in distress. His trust should have done everything possible to secure the right PPE for him. He did get the right mask a week later but you should not have to choose between wearing a mask and shaving your beard,” Singh said. The PAPRs, which are reusable, come from Germany and the USA and cost £1,000, while the FFP3 or N95 masks cost £5 to £10. Another doctor to contact him was a consultant paediatrician who had been moved off frontline duty in the Midlands, as well as three Sikh doctors in London. All five doctors have now, thanks to the intervention of the Sikh Doctors Association, got the correct masks and returned to the frontline. Singh, together with the Sikh Council UK, wrote on April 3 to Sir Simon Stevens, chief executive of the NHS, asking for hospitals to provide the appropriate level of PPE to Sikh staff. The letter said: “no Sikh healthcare professional should be forced to choose between breaking their faith or breaking their frontline NHS role to help patients,” pointing out that it would be in breach of the Equality Act 2010. “Many Sikhs working in the NHS have expressed their strong desire to continue using their skills and experience working alongside their colleagues in the NHS during this critical time. It is unfair to ask them to choose between their faith and their vocation when alternative solutions are available. For Sikhs, their duty of care is intrinsically linked with their faith.” On April 29, Professor Stephen Powis, NHS national medical director, wrote back promising: “reasonable adjustments should be made in this area.” British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin president Ramesh Mehta told TOI that it was correct they were removed from the frontline if they did not have the correct PPE but he said: “They need to order appropriate masks to respect religious beliefs, regardless of cost. You can’t force Sikhs or Muslims to shave off their beards.” Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi MP added: “Why wasn't suitable PPE provided? No one should be made to feel guilty and distressed, having to choose between their faith or their profession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-uk-sikh-doctors-removed-for-refusing-to-shave-beards/articleshow/75518563.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Virusonomics: Nothing to spend on means money in savings account||New Delhi: Till the first week of March, one might have suspected Siddhartha Banerjee of displaying mild strains of oniomania — the compulsive desire to buy things that one might not necessarily ‘need’. These ranged from pens to running shoes that the 33-year-old HR professional might perhaps use once during the year. His purchases, and those of his wife, have come to a screeching halt. Banerjee still shops, but he restricts his shopping to groceries and vegetables. "The lockdown made us realise that a big portion of our monthly expenditure was due to shopping and eating out. These have stopped completely," said Chittaranjan Park resident Banerjee. "It’s going to be the seventh weekend that we haven’t stepped out of the house, met our friends or celebrated their birthdays and anniversaries." The couple hasn’t felt the need to buy new clothes. Banerjee is comfortable working from home in T-shirt and shorts and his wife, Niharika, hasn’t spent on cosmetics, shoes or ornaments. "I’m saving more than Rs 30,000 a month. A third of this is because I am not driving," he said. The couple, however, feels some ‘non-essentials’ are actually essential to give life a semblance of normality. Banerjee misses his single malts the most, and the first ‘essential’ thing he wants to buy to mark the return to normalcy will be a bottle of his loved Scotch whisky. His mother wants a bigger TV set and Niharika her favourite lipstick. Like Banerjee, Poonam Mishra, 35, too craves to constantly buy clothes and shoes. "I work in the happening CyberHub in Gurgaon, and miss going out with friends," revealed the environmental consultant. The lockdown, therefore, has meant big savings for her, though she grins that a little indulgence and a slice of the pre-Covid life couldn’t hurt. Her husband, Ajinkya Gunjan Mishra, a corporate and tax lawyer, however, has a different take. "If not for the pandemic, we would be readying for our annual vacation with the courts on vacation in May and June," said the 35-year-old. He indulges on vacations, often in foreign locales, but concedes, "This year, even Shimla and Mussoorie are a distant dream." Mishra said he was planning to buy a new car, but will have to postpone the decision because there is a lot of uncertainty about financial security now. Covid-19 has also upended the travel plans of PR professional Urvashi Sharma, 28. "Travel, food and films are my passions and spending on these have halted," Sharma admitted. "I travel abroad annually and was planning to visit Greece this year but have cancelled my plans. I also eat out with friends every weekend or even alone and go to the theatre for films. The lockdown has changed everything." But there’s a positive side to this. Sharma smiles, "With nothing to splurge on, I have realised I’m saving over 90% of my salary! I now cook at home and find the experience therapeutic. I’m going to continue with this lifestyle after the lockdown, and even if my salary is affected by the economic turbulence, I will still be able to put something aside." Like Sharma, many Delhi millennials are getting used to the idea of saving, which otherwise was an intrinsic part of life only for those who grew up in pre-liberalisation India. "I have saved Rs 15,000 this month on food and transportation alone," exulted marketing professional Jaswinder Singh, 25. "Savings have become important due to lack of job security now." Like Sharma and Singh, dining was a biggest indulgence for Karan Singh, 25, a media manager for a CSR project. "When I’m with my parents in Rajouri Garden, I eat out frequently in fine dining restaurants. When posted in other cities, I order food in. I’m a food blogger and love posting culinary photographs," he said. Singh, in fact, orders food so frequently that he has even been mistaken for being a commercial outlet. With isolation has come wisdom. "Earlier I knew the prices of dishes I was ordering, but now I even know how much tomato and potato cost and how much garlic you need in a curry," Singh laughed. Those a bit senior feel reining in spending has helped detoxify their lives. "Not eating out has resulted in my blood sugar levels coming down to healthy levels, so I’m definitely not complaining," said chartered accountant Pankaj Agarwal, 58. "I was also tiring of the hectic socialising, dinners and gift buying." Though Agarwal and his wife Anjali, 57, who works for the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), are both film buffs, they aren’t planning to splurge on cineplexes anytime soon. "Though EMIs and certain expenses are constant, my spending on food, clothes, shoes and gadgets has reduced. As an educator for children with special needs, the substantial amount I spent on workshops has dipped," said Sonam Agarwal Sachdeva, 43. "However, I also feel that we are stocking more things and increased purchases of hand sanitisers, gloves and expensive face masks." She felt the pandemic will lead to attitudinal changes and people will become more minimalistic. And yet, Banerjee pointed out, saving money would, in the long run, have an adverse effect. "If we stop buying, manufacturing will be affected and there will be job cuts, which will start a vicious cycle," he cautioned. "If industry comes to a standstill, our investments would also be static. We have to break the Covid-19 chain, not the demand and supply chain. We have to build a robust parallel system so that markets can open, but we remain safe from corona infection." Sidhartha.Roy@timesgroup.com New Delhi: Till the first week of March, one might have suspected Siddhartha Banerjee of displaying mild strains of oniomania — the compulsive desire to buy things that one might not necessarily ‘need’. These ranged from pens to running shoes that the 33-year-old HR professional might perhaps use once during the year. His purchases, and those of his wife, have come to a screeching halt. Banerjee still shops, but he restricts his shopping to groceries and vegetables. "The lockdown made us realise that a big portion of our monthly expenditure was due to shopping and eating out. These have stopped completely," said Chittaranjan Park resident Banerjee. "It’s going to be the seventh weekend that we haven’t stepped out of the house, met our friends or celebrated their birthdays and anniversaries." The couple hasn’t felt the need to buy new clothes. Banerjee is comfortable working from home in T-shirt and shorts and his wife, Niharika, hasn’t spent on cosmetics, shoes or ornaments. "I’m saving more than Rs 30,000 a month. A third of this is because I am not driving," he said. The couple, however, feels some ‘non-essentials’ are actually essential to give life a semblance of normality. Banerjee misses his single malts the most, and the first ‘essential’ thing he wants to buy to mark the return to normalcy will be a bottle of his loved Scotch whisky. His mother wants a bigger TV set and Niharika her favourite lipstick. Like Banerjee, Poonam Mishra, 35, too craves to constantly buy clothes and shoes. "I work in the happening CyberHub in Gurgaon, and miss going out with friends," revealed the environmental consultant. The lockdown, therefore, has meant big savings for her, though she grins that a little indulgence and a slice of the pre-Covid life couldn’t hurt. Her husband, Ajinkya Gunjan Mishra, a corporate and tax lawyer, however, has a different take. "If not for the pandemic, we would be readying for our annual vacation with the courts on vacation in May and June," said the 35-year-old. He indulges on vacations, often in foreign locales, but concedes, "This year, even Shimla and Mussoorie are a distant dream." Mishra said he was planning to buy a new car, but will have to postpone the decision because there is a lot of uncertainty about financial security now. Covid-19 has also upended the travel plans of PR professional Urvashi Sharma, 28. "Travel, food and films are my passions and spending on these have halted," Sharma admitted. "I travel abroad annually and was planning to visit Greece this year but have cancelled my plans. I also eat out with friends every weekend or even alone and go to the theatre for films. The lockdown has changed everything." But there’s a positive side to this. Sharma smiles, "With nothing to splurge on, I have realised I’m saving over 90% of my salary! I now cook at home and find the experience therapeutic. I’m going to continue with this lifestyle after the lockdown, and even if my salary is affected by the economic turbulence, I will still be able to put something aside." Like Sharma, many Delhi millennials are getting used to the idea of saving, which otherwise was an intrinsic part of life only for those who grew up in pre-liberalisation India. "I have saved Rs 15,000 this month on food and transportation alone," exulted marketing professional Jaswinder Singh, 25. "Savings have become important due to lack of job security now." Like Sharma and Singh, dining was a biggest indulgence for Karan Singh, 25, a media manager for a CSR project. "When I’m with my parents in Rajouri Garden, I eat out frequently in fine dining restaurants. When posted in other cities, I order food in. I’m a food blogger and love posting culinary photographs," he said. Singh, in fact, orders food so frequently that he has even been mistaken for being a commercial outlet. With isolation has come wisdom. "Earlier I knew the prices of dishes I was ordering, but now I even know how much tomato and potato cost and how much garlic you need in a curry," Singh laughed. Those a bit senior feel reining in spending has helped detoxify their lives. "Not eating out has resulted in my blood sugar levels coming down to healthy levels, so I’m definitely not complaining," said chartered accountant Pankaj Agarwal, 58. "I was also tiring of the hectic socialising, dinners and gift buying." Though Agarwal and his wife Anjali, 57, who works for the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), are both film buffs, they aren’t planning to splurge on cineplexes anytime soon. "Though EMIs and certain expenses are constant, my spending on food, clothes, shoes and gadgets has reduced. As an educator for children with special needs, the substantial amount I spent on workshops has dipped," said Sonam Agarwal Sachdeva, 43. "However, I also feel that we are stocking more things and increased purchases of hand sanitisers, gloves and expensive face masks." She felt the pandemic will lead to attitudinal changes and people will become more minimalistic. And yet, Banerjee pointed out, saving money would, in the long run, have an adverse effect. "If we stop buying, manufacturing will be affected and there will be job cuts, which will start a vicious cycle," he cautioned. "If industry comes to a standstill, our investments would also be static. We have to break the Covid-19 chain, not the demand and supply chain. We have to build a robust parallel system so that markets can open, but we remain safe from corona infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virusonomics-nothing-to-spend-on-means-money-in-savings-account/articleshow/75517902.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Two migrant workers commit suicide in Haridwar||Haridwar: In two separate cases, two migrant workers committed suicide in Haridwar on Sunday. The preliminary inquiry suggests that one among them was under severe depression and the other took the extreme step due to family issues. However, police did not find any suicide note near the bodies. Police have said that further investigation is ongoing in both the cases and the bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. The first case was reported on Sunday morning from Sharvan Nath Nagar falling under city police station jurisdiction where a 56-year-old man, identified as Rama Shankar, jumped from the fifth floor of the hotel where he worked as a painter. The man was a native of Nabha colony, Patiala, Punjab. The man’s son has told the police that he was in depression. In the second case, a 25-year-old man, identified as Deepak Kashyap, hanged self from the ceiling fan on Sunday morning. The man was a resident of Shahranpur’s Gandevada village in Uttar Pradesh. He was currently living in Haridwar’s industrial area with his wife. The man took the extreme step while he was home-alone and his wife had gone out to buy ration. He worked in a printing press and had got married last year. Praveen Singh Koshiyari, SHO city police station, told TOI, “We did not recover any suicide note in both cases. Rama Shankar was in depression according to his family and Deepak might have taken extreme step due to some family-related issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-migrant-workers-commit-suicide-in-haridwar/articleshow/75523331.cms||MS Nawaz
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP govt not conducting enough tests, says Nath||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday said the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in the state was testing less number of people for novel coronavirus so as to deliberately keep the COVID-19 numbers low. He said people were being tested in some major cities, but the vast rural population in the state was being left out. Speaking to reporters through video conference, Nath said, “The fight against the COVID-19 outbreak is not sufficient (in MP). In which town or village is testing taking place? Fewer tests are being carried out so that the pandemic numbers can be kept low,” he claimed. “People are being tested only in big cities like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and some district headquarters. Is there a planned way to conduct tests to detect the virus,” Nath, who lost his chief ministership on March 20 following a party rebellion, said. Nath said if he was in power now, then testing kits would been given to every district in the state to test people for the virus. He also expressed apprehension on migrants returning to their villages. “Labourers having exposure to the virus are returning to their villages. What will happen now,” he asked. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-not-conducting-enough-tests-says-nath/articleshow/75524403.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Rebooting industry may keep workers in TN, hopes govt||CHENNAI: Still groping in the dark for ways and means to address its guest workers’ demand to be sent back to their native states, Tamil Nadu is taking comfort in the hope that many of them would drop their protest and get back to work once industries in the state resume partial work on Monday. Officials said a government order and a standard operating procedure (SOP) for various sectors have been issued. "Many workers have started to agitate because they do not have a job in hand, and they have no idea of what the coming days hold for them. Now, if we resume industrial activities, we can retain a good percentage of the workforce and build confidence in them. For those who want to return home now, we hope this sign of resuming industrial activities will make them shelve their plans," an official said. Guest workers account for 40% of the state’s total workforce, according to an unofficial estimate. These workers have played a crucial role in development projects, from multi-crore rupee metro rail and smart city projects in Chennai to establishing a 230KV substation in a remote village in Ariyalur district. "Losing them would come as a double whammy amid the lockdown," said a labour department official. During the lockdown, he said, the government managed to provide food and essential commodities with the help of NGOs. A collector, after a video conference on Sunday, said that chief secretary K Shanmugam instructed officials to promote self-reporting of guest workers on nonresidenttamil.org and that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would soon take the final call. Tirupur Exporters Association president Raja M Shanmugam said any exodus will impact the industry that is already in crisis. "Allowing the industry to function with minimum workers will build confidence among them. It will help them overcome the fear psychosis that is driving them to go back home. If they leave, it will be difficult to bring them back for at least a couple of months," he said. Nearly 2.5 lakh guest workers are employed in Tirupur’s textile industry. The construction industry, where 80% of the workforce are guest workers, will be hit. "Without a job, many have been sitting idle and worried a lot to support their family back home financially. So, they were desperate to return home. Resuming the work and keeping them occupied will change their mindset. We are confident of retaining at least 50% of the workforce," said Credai chairman (TN) S Sridharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rebooting-industry-may-keep-workers-in-tn-hopes-govt/articleshow/75523989.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Judge goes the extra mile, sets up feeding centre for needy||HYDERABAD: As the state is bracing up to witness the exodus of migrants with sympathy for their woes caused by the sudden nationwide lockdown, Sai Rama Devi, the principal district judge of Medak, Sangareddy and Siddipet districts came across a story of a family that embarked upon a marathon foot journey to their native place during the last week of March. Sai Rama Devi is the chairperson of district legal services authority that can take up relief works. She spoke to the state legal services authority executive chairman Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and member secretary GV Subrahmanyam and conveyed her intent to do service to the poor during the lockdown. They immediately accorded their consent. Subsequently, the Sangareddy court complex was converted into a feeding centre. She has been organising food camps from March 28. As the lockdown norms became stringent, it became difficult to find cooks for the job. She spoke to the Sangareddy prison authorities and ensured that the food gets prepared in the jail premises where cooks are available and transported to the court complex every afternoon. Hundreds of migrant labourers and local poor were fed everyday. She spoke to the district collector who ordered the officials to supply rice and groceries to the court on a cost-to-cost basis. AP Lokayukta Justice P Lakshmana Reddy and Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana high court, who heard about the humanitarian effort, came forward and made donations to the cause. Several judicial officers and donors came forward to assist legal services authorities who took up this work and have continued it for the last six weeks. Apart from this, Sai Rama also organised a blood donation camp in the court premises for thalassemia patients. She also ensured that food was supplied to children homes and orphanages in the district that are running out of rice and groceries. Rice and grocery packets were also distributed to several advocate clerks and poor advocates with help of donations made by judicial employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/judge-goes-the-extra-mile-sets-up-feeding-centre-for-needy/articleshow/75524408.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Liquor shops to open from today||Jaipur: The state government has decided to open liquor shops from Monday in all the three zones – green, orange and red (except areas under curfew and containment). As per the guidelines issued on Sunday by the excise department, the shops will remain open between 10am and 6pm. To ensure compliance of social distancing and hygienic practices, the department will deploy a police personnel at every shop in urban areas who will also provide sanitisers, while all customers will be required to give their mobile numbers at the counter for any future action. Excise commissioner Bishnu Charan Mallick said, “More than five customers at a time will not be allowed and the shop will not have more than two people. Marks have to be made with a gap of one metre for maintaining social distancing.” The guidelines also mentioned that no customer will be asked to pay more than the MRP. In the past, customers were charged more than the MRP printed on the bottles. The department has urged the customers to use online payment by using various digital platforms. The shops will also sell the state-made sanitizers. The district officials have been instructed to monitor the functioning of the shops regularly to ensure all the guidelines are followed. The state government has lost about Rs 41 crore daily due to the closure of the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-shops-to-open-from-today/articleshow/75524402.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Nisar believed in literature for all—not just for the oppressed||Dharwad: Poet K S Nisar Ahmed would never miss an opportunity to visit Dharwad. His recent visit to the North Karnataka city was in January when he received the prestigious Ambikatanayadatta national award, instituted by the Dr Da Raa Bendre National Memorial Trust. His earlier visits were in 2017 to inaugurate Dharwad Sahitya Sambhrama and in 2013 for the Geetotsava. He looked fit during his 2017 visit at the age of 82. However, that visit is more known for his statement defending the participation of corporate figures in the literary festival. The Dharwad Sahitya Sambhrama had been criticised for providing a platform to those in corporate sector. But Nisar strongly defended it and said employees and leaders in the corporate sector too have sentiments and the right to express themselves. “Creating literature is not the domain of only the oppressed. Those in the corporate world too have struggled in the early stages of their life to reach a comfortable position. Just because they have become rich should not prevent them from entering the literary world,” he had said. Giving an insight into the corporate sector through their works, readers get a taste of a different work and this can enrich Kannada literature, he had said. The poet hailed the organisers for providing equal space to proponents of different ideologies without bias. Though soft-spoken, Nisar did not mince words when he spoke his mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nisar-believed-in-literature-for-allnot-just-for-the-oppressed/articleshow/75521757.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Around 50 migrants from Karnataka decide to stay back||Nashik: While migrant workers stuck in various parts of the country due to the lockdown have started moving to their native places, around 50 people from Karnataka — migrant workers and their family members — have decided to stay back in Nashik. The decision was taken by them after the president of their community asked them to stay back as they were not facing any adverse situation in the city. Shashi Shetty, president of Bunt Sangha Association, said, "These people were panicking after speaking to their families in Mangalore and Udipi. They wanted to go back to their families as they were hearing that the situation in Nashik are getting grim every day and there is high risk for them to catch the infection. I have told them to take care and stay doors." According to Shetty, someone had told them that Karnataka government will keep them quarantined for two weeks in civil hospital which is something that they did not want as they hope to stay with their families. "These people had been asking me to arrange transportation for them so that they can go back home. We had spoken with the district administration who had assured us of all possible help. But since these people were having second thoughts, I convinced them to stay put as they have women and children with them," he said. The change in the perspective of these labourers from Karnataka came after the Maharashtra government gave nod for the liquor shops to open in the state, including red zones. "It has given them a hope that after May 17, hotels and restaurants will also open and they will be able to get back to work," Shetty said. "Many employers of these workers are giving them salaries. Earlier, we were trying to arrange buses for them, but now we have decided to donate grocery and other essential items to these workers so that they do not have to step out of their houses," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/around-50-migrants-from-karnataka-decide-to-stay-back/articleshow/75523324.cms||pragya jain
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor shops to reopen in Nagpur rural, remain shut in city||NAGPUR: Though the state government on Sunday allowed liquor and pan shops, and other non-essential shops in non-containment zone to remain open with certain conditions, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that there will be no such relaxations in the city limits. The state’s revised notification states that only stand-alone and five non-essential shops each can remain open in a single lane. Late on Sunday night district collector Ravindra Thakre issued a notification for other parts of the district. While pan and tobacco shops will remain closed, he has allowed liquor and other non-essential shops to open but they have to follow strict social distancing norms. A separate order by the state excise department said that liquor shops can function between 10am and 6pm only. They will have to strictly adhere to five persons at-a-time norm stipulated by the state government. Thakre is considering rural parts of Nagpur as Orange Zone even as Nagpur city remains in Red Zone. Mundhe issued a notification on Sunday afternoon extending the lockdown on the lines of Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon till May 17. Even though additional restrictions were not imposed by state government in Nagpur district, the commissioner has pressed them within municipal limits. After the state government’s revised notification, deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain said that a new order will be issued on Monday. State’s orders were in line with the central notification which came out for Red, Orange and Green zones on Friday. Mundhe later told TOI that liquor, tobacco and other non-essential shops would not be allowed to function in the city. “I am empowered under the Epidemic Act and have taken the decision in the interest of city. Ministry of health and family welfare in its notification dated April 30 has clearly given powers to tighten the norms. But we cannot relax norms whichever are not approved by the government. We have been also asked to positively err on side of caution. Therefore, I have taken the decision to extend up to May 17,” he said. Mundhe also said all norms applicable for Mumbai Metropolitan and Pune Metropolitan Region areas will also be relevant in the city. “We need to contain Covid-19 and take city into Green Zone. The time is not right to relax the restrictions. Lockdown will have to be implemented in an effective manner. I am requesting people to cooperate with the administration,” he said. As per the state health department, the projection of positive cases in mid-May is 18,902 for Nagpur and 75,801 for Vidarbha. Mundhe has not allowed private offices to function at 33% strength, which was permitted by the central government in Red Zones. Government offices except those offering essential services will function at 5% capacity. This is in line with state government notification. Meanwhile, collectors of Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal and other districts in Vidarbha too have issued notifications on lockdown. Akola collector Jitendra Papalkar told TOI that doubling rate of Covid-19 cases was a major cause of concern for the district. “We have decided to observe 2 days of full curfew on May 4 and 5. After that, we will go for odd-even scheme,” he said. All shops excluding hospitals and medical stores will remain closed for next two days in Akola. “After that, essential shops will remain open on odd date and closed on even date,” added Papalkar. Amravati collector Shailesh Naval has not given any concessions to areas under cluster and containment zones. The notifications keeps schools/colleges, cinema halls, weekly bazars, cattle bazars, festivals and fairs closed during the lockdown but permits sale of grocery, grains, dairy items between 8am and 12pm during lockdown. It also permits all nationalized, private banks, cooperatives, credit societies and financial institutions to function between 9am and 3pm up to May 17. Yavatmal collector has not allowed any activity barring the essential commodities shops and movement for medical emergencies in the containment areas. However, liquor shops are permitted in other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-shops-to-reopen-in-ngp-rural-remain-shut-in-city/articleshow/75524415.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur total nears 1,000 as new areas report cases||Jaipur: The city might have to wait for some more time to get rid of the ‘red’ zone tag given by the Centre as the number of infected people is nearing 1,000. Coronovirus, that has overwhelmed Ramganj in Jaipur, is now spreading to other parts of the city and the Walled City areas. Eleven new places have been added up to the list of areas in the city where persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city since April 23. The Centre has put Jaipur in the list of red-zone districts of the country on April 30. When the Centre released the list of such districts for the first time on April 15, Jaipur was still in the red-zone list. What is adding more worries for the health authorities is that cases are now getting reported from other areas. Though the other areas are witnessing sporadic cases, there is always a risk of spread of the disease to other persons in that area. Among those 11 areas are Chand Pole, Ajmeri Gate and Kishan Pole, which are densely populated areas of the Walled City. Rest of the eight spots are situated outside the Walled City area. Closely monitoring the situation in the city, the health authorities have detected cases from several parts of the state. According to the health department officials, there are 50 areas in the city and rural areas where people have tested positive for Covid-19. Two days ago, in Raja Park area, a vegetable vendor had tested positive for Covid-19, which kept the health authorities and the police on their toes. The health department teams are continuously taking samples in Raja Park area to ward-off risk of spread of the virus in the area. New places have been added up in rural areas, too, as people have tested positive for the virus in Jamdoli, Bassi, Shahpura and Dudu. In the last seven days, Malviya Nagar, Jalupura, Tonk Road and Tonk Phatak have also reported cases. “Sporadic cases are being reported from different areas. A case has also been detected in Jobner area of Jaipur rural. We are taking necessary measures to prevent spread of the virus to other areas by taking effective measures creating containment zones,” said a health department official. The other areas in Jaipur rural that reported Covid-19 cases are Kotputli, Phagi, Luniyawas, Jamwaramgarh and Jamdoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-total-nears-1000-as-new-areas-report-cases/articleshow/75524406.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Soldier from Almora killed in Handwara encounter||Pithoragarh: Following the death of two soldiers from Kumaon Regiment hailing from Pithoragarh who were killed during firing across the Line of Control in Kashmir’s Uri sector on Friday, another soldier from Almora district was on Sunday killed in an encounter in Kashmir’s Handwara. The deceased was identified as Lance Naik Dinesh Singh, who is from the Brigade of the Guards regiment, and was at present part of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, posted in Kashmir. Singh was part of an operation led by Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who was killed in action while trying to flush out terrorists. Besides, another officer, Major Anuj Sood and a soldier, Naik Rajesh were also killed along with a Kashmir Police sub-inspector who was part of the operation. Godhan Singh, a former Armyman and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh’s father, said that his 25-year-old son had joined the force in 2015 and was posted in Kashmir for the past two years. Meanwhile, bodies of two soldiers -- Naik Shankar Singh and Havaldar Gokaran Singh -- reached their native village on Sunday. The body of Naik Shankar Singh was taken to his native Nali village where he was cremated with full military honours, district administration sources said. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said that the body of Havaldar Gokaran Singh reached Munsyari helipad from Bareilly in the morning and was then taken to Napad village, where the cremation will be done on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/soldier-from-almora-killed-in-handwara-encounter/articleshow/75521767.cms||Prem Punetha
May 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Saffron card holders from other districts denied ration||PUNE: Confusion over eligibility for ration prevails in Baner-Balewadi area despite announcement by state minister for food and civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal that those having saffron ration cards must be given ration even if their Aadhaar cards are not linked. Lack of ration shops and insufficient stock are also among the problems faced by people in the area. Since there are no ration shops in Baner-Balewadi, a school has been temporarily converted into a ration distributing centre. The centre is not open throughout the day and people from other districts are not provided ration, despite having ration cards. “I have a saffron ration card from Solapur but when I went to Balewadi and then to the Someshwarwadi ration shop, I was told that people from other districts cannot get ration,” said Ashok Gaikwad, who hails from Solapur, but currently lives near Someshwarwadi. Jyoti Bamgude, who runs the Someshwarwadi ration shop, said, “In my shop, stock arrives for about 500 card holders. The stock is distributed to the local card holder’s first.” Asmita More, foodgrain distribution officer for Pune, said, “There were four ration shops in Baner-Balewadi area. Licences of two were cancelled due to irregularity, while the other two surrendered their licences. Hence, we started giving ration in Balewadi school. While we have told shops to remain open from 8am till 8pm, police don’t allow them to operate late in many places .” More said, “We will sort out the complaints. People can also call the control room and lodge a complaint.,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/saffron-card-holders-from-other-districts-denied-ration/articleshow/75524649.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Pragati Maidan OC, wife test Covid positive||KOLKATA: The officer-in-charge of Pragati Maidan police station and his wife tested positive for Covid-19. The couple resides at the Kolkata Police quarters in Bowbazar and the building, where they live, has been disinfected by Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Sunday. After the former OC of Garden Reach, he has become the second officer to be diagnosed with the disease. Police sources said he has been admitted to a Covid hospital off EM Bypass near Ruby Crossing. Besides, the OC becomes the eight confirmed Covid case among cops in Kolkata and Howrah. TimesViewCops are one of the groups on the front-line of the city's fight against this new virus. Emergency services have to go on but every precaution should be taken to protect the foot soldiers.The big relief, however, was that the officer’s condition was stable and he had no fever till Sunday evening. “He had last come to the police station on Wednesday. On Thursday, he and his wife had undergone the mandatory test, the results of which came on Saturday. Since he showed only mild symptoms during his quarantine period, he had wanted to stay home following the recent government orders. After his test result was positive, senior officers ensured that he got admitted to the private hospital,” said a police officer. According to sources, the commissioner of police Anuj Sharma has already spoken to him. “He appeared to be positive and given his mild symptoms, he was confident to return home soon,” said an IPS officer. Disinfection drives were also carried out at the Pragati Maidan police station and Tiljala traffic guards along with Hare Street police station located close to the couple’s residence. Following the protocol, when the Garden Reach OC had taken ill, his driver and guard were quarantined. Senior officers are in touch with ACMOH to ascertain whether anyone else at the Pragati Maidan police station will have to be sent in quarantine. Sharma is likely to visit the police station soon to boost the morale of the force. As the chief of the Pragati Maidan police station, he was directly responsible for arranging the smooth cremation of Covid patients at Dhapa. He was also in charge of a portion of the Hathgacchi area where a couple of people had shown Covid-like symptoms. Meanwhile, cops at Lalbazar said they have introduced several new measures to tackle the Covid challenge in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pragati-maidan-oc-wife-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75523992.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Krishnagiri trick: Why the green matters||CHENNAI: Even as the admission of a 67-year-old Nallur resident of Krishnagiri district, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, to Salem government hospital set off speculations over the move, the 8,000-odd industrial units, both large and small, in the district are awaiting the directive from the district collector to resume operations from this week. Read the entire story on TOI+Is random sampling of tests too random?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/krishnagiri-trick-why-the-green-matters/articleshow/75523997.cms||D Govardan
May 4, 2020||Pune||Seven Covid-19 patients die in Pune, positive cases breach 2,000 mark||PUNE: Seven Covid-19 deaths were reported from the city and while the number of coronavirus positive cases crossed the 2,000 mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday. With this, the number of casualties in the region went up to 111 and the positive cases to 2,051. District administration officials said the condition of 71 patients was serious. The officials said the number of positive cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits was now 1,813 and 122, respectively. The civil surgeon and cantonment boards have 73 cases, while the district heath office of zilla parishad has recorded 43 cases, the officials said As many as 99 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the PMC limits on Sunday. PMC officials said all the seven fatalities reported on Sunday had comorbidity issues. The officials said 55 patients were recovered and discharged during the day. Of the seven people whose deaths were confirmed on Sunday, five were women, including a 24-year-old woman. The two male patients were aged between 50 and 66 years. Five people lost their lives at Sassoon General Hospital and two succumbed to the virus in a private hospital.. the officials said. The deceased were residents of Yerawada, Parvati, Market Yard, Ghorpadi Gaon, Shivdarshan, Ganeshnagar and Padmavati. The officials said they were suffering from comorbidity factors such as pneumonia, respiratory diseases. Six persons died on Sunday, while one woman died on Saturday. The latter’s report came positive on Sunday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took review of the current status of covid-19 in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad through a video conference, which was attended by senior officials of the district administration and the municipal corporations of the two cities. Pune division, which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur districts, has so far registered 2,147 cases. In Pimpri Chinchwad, six Covid-19 positive patients — four women and two men — were found on Sunday, said Pavan Salve, additional medical officer of the healthdepartment in the civic body. The cases were reported from Pimple Saudagar, Chinchwad, Old Sangvi and Moshi, a PCMC official said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-covid-19-patients-die-positive-cases-breach-2k-mark/articleshow/75524648.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Lasalgaon APMC to start auction of loose onions||Nashik: The officials of the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Lasalgaon have decided to resume auction of loose onions for the procurement process being carried out by the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed). An APMC official said farmers have also been seeking the start of loose onion auctions — instead of auction by sacks. “Nafed also wants to procure onions and wants us to begin the auction of loose onions,” he said. “We have decided to start the auction of loose onions from Monday. The auction will be held in two shifts — first, between 9am and noon and then again between 4pm and 6pm,” he added. Only 700 vehicles of onions will be allowed to enter the APMC premises for the auction. “We will auction more onions in case more vehicles arrive during the auction process,” the official said. “Usually the market is closed on the weekends. However, to benefit the farmers, we decided to conduct onion auction on every Saturday,” he added. Earlier, traders were unwilling to start auction of loose onion, but they have now agreed for auction of loose onions. Nafed has also decided to start procurement of onions from Monday. The Centre has directed its central agency (Nafed) to procure 50,000 tonne of summer onions to create a buffer stock. According to Nafed sources, around 45,000 tonne of onions are to be procured from various APMCs in Nashik, Pune and Solapur districts, while the remaining 5,000 tonne will be procured from the wholesale markets in Gujarat. Bulk of onions from Nashik district is to be procured from Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Kalwan APMCs. According to APMC sources, the entry of Nafed for procurement of onions at Lasalgaon may lead to rise in average wholesale onion price by Rs 200 per quintal. Currently, the average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon is between Rs 850 and Rs 900 per quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-apmc-to-start-auction-of-loose-onions/articleshow/75523346.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 4, 2020||Business||Many tech centre staff to WFH for 4-6 months: EY||Bengaluru: Over 60% of the GCCs (global capability centres or the tech centres of MNCs in India) believe that employees who can work remotely without any visible impact on day-to-day operations will continue to do so for the next 4-6 months, an Ernst & Young (EY) survey shows. The survey incorporated perspectives of over 100 GCC leaders in India. Amid the lockdown, more than 95% of GCC employees are working from home. India has over 1,250 GCCs employing over 1 million employees. The EY survey said that over 40% of the GCC leaders had already started preparing to telecommute from the end of February. Thousands of laptops were shipped to homes of employees who had traditionally operated in a desktop environment; and at least 10% of the GCCs also provided additional equipment such as large monitors and printers. Many even reimbursed home internet used for work purposes. Arindam Sen, partner - technology, media & entertainment and telecommunications GCCs leader in EY India, said, “So far GCCs have done an extraordinary job of successfully tackling the challenges posed by the Covid-19 crisis and continue to run operations with minimal or no impact to their overall commitments. As GCCs shift across three horizons, the ‘Now’, ‘Next’ and ‘Beyond’ phases, it becomes critical for the GCC leaders to plan for contingencies, understand the risks and incorporate regulatory changes into their overall strategy,” he said. K S Viswanathan, vice-president-industry initiatives, Nasscom said, “GCCs in India alone employ over 1 million professionals and support over 50 countries in various time zones. It has been commendable to witness the support they have provided to their parent enterprises during this global lockdown while ensuring there is absolute smoothness and continuity in business operations.” The EY survey said GCCs won’t be moving the entire workforce to return to office at once. At least 10% of GCCs said they would only have critical functions operating from the office in the next 2-4 months, while over 60% of the respondents stated that a maximum of one-third of their workforce would be operating from their offices at any given point of time during the same period. Subir Mehra, partner, financial services GCCs leader, EY India said, “Business resilience has become crucial in these challenging times. It provides an opportunity for GCCs to rethink how they can identify, calibrate and manage risks through process optimisation, rationalisation and innovation. GCCs also need to increasingly focus on digitisation, intelligent automation and cyber security.” Going forward, the survey said, over 60% of the GCCs have considered a more formal remote working scenario. They have initiated discussions around rationalising their real estate footprint to accommodate this new model of working, and as a result, reduce costs of operations. Some of the GCCs have also started discussions with their parent corporations on transfer of additional activities to the centre, especially given significant cost pressures in several home markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/many-tech-centre-staff-to-wfh-for-4-6-months-ey/articleshow/75524024.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah cops ‘adopt’ family of arrested riot accused||HOWRAH: It took the police four days to trace the prime accused of the Tikiapara clash where cops, RAF, a police van and a police outpost were attacked by locals. Mohammed Shakib was hiding at home all this while police combed the area and held 11 people connected with the incident. Finally, when the cops arrested the young offender on Saturday, they realised that with the sole bread-winner behind the bar, the family of 10 would now have to starve. So, they came back again, with enough ration to run the family for at least eight days. Shakib’s age is yet to be ascertained and cops from the Howrah police station have requested the court to determine his age. He was produced in court on Saturday and remanded in police custody for three days. Within hours of whisking Shakib away, police came back to his family with 50 kg of rice, 40 kg of potatoes, 20 kg of flour, 18 kg of dal, oil, salt, sugar, tea, biscuits and soap. “Shakib fed the family of 10. With him gone, the family would starve,” said Priyabrata Roy, DC, HQ. On Sunday, cops went back again, with fruits and milk for the family. They also gave a contact number to Shakib’s mother, where she can call the cops if she needed anything. A constable has been put in charge of the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-adopt-family-of-arrested-riot-accused/articleshow/75524002.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||I & Digvijaya Singh misjudged rebel MLAs, says Kamal Nath on crisis that toppled MP govt||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday said he had “misjudged” the breakaway MLAs and erred in continuing to trust them even after they left for Bengaluru, but is confident that Congress will return to power after assembly bypolls in 24 seats. “My judgement was wrong about the MLAs. Both Digvijaya Singh and I thought the MLAs would not quit. I did not believe that Congress MLAs, or an MLA of any party, would succumb to allurement. They used to talk to us from Bengaluru, where they were lodged. They would speak to Digvijaya Singh also. He, too, had faith in them, like I did,” Nath told mediapersons in his first address to the media here for the first time since his resignation on March 20. Nath denied recent reports about differences between him and party colleague Digvijaya Singh. Two days ago, a national TV channel had claimed that he said Digvijaya’s judgement of the rebel MLAs was wrong, which toppled the government. “I deny what has been reported,” he said. Nath said Congress will return to power after bypolls to 24 seats – 22 vacated by the breakaway Scindia faction and two of legislators who have passed away. “I have full faith that the (Congress) government will come back. I have 40 years of experience in electoral politics,” he said. “Today, voters are very aware. They remain silent but understand. It has been proved in Maharashtra, Haryana and Jharkhand that people will not be misguided,” he said at the press meet via video conferencing. “People can understand why the 22 MLAs left Congress. For voters, this has been a betrayal of their mandate and they know the greed for which legislators left the party. These former MLAs will get a befitting reply in their constituencies,” Nath warned, adding that bypolls have been postponed because of the Covid-19 crisis. “After the bypolls, it will be clear what people of Madhya Pradesh want. How will this (BJP) government survive when we win 20-22 seats?” he asked, pointing out that these seats have BJP veterans who carried the party’s flag for 20-40 years, but election tickets will be given to rebels who left Congress. Nath said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has a tough time ahead. “Abhi toh trailer hua hai, poori picture ka intezar kijiye,” the PCC chief said. “Let them make their council of ministers first. This is the only cabinet in history where there was only the chief minister and no minister for nearly a month. And when they appointed ministers, there were just five in number. What will they do now? Who will they make a minister? Shivraj Singh Chouhan has to endure a lot now,” Nath said, adding that it’s unfortunate that the government cannot form a cabinet despite battling financial crisis and the Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/i-digvijaya-misjudged-rebel-mlas-says-nath-on-crisis-that-toppled-govt/articleshow/75524411.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Two factories visited by corona-positive truck driver shut down||RUDRAPUR: State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (SIDCUL) administration on Sunday suspended production at two factories in Pantnagar industrial area of Udham Singh Nagar district, after investigation revealed that a Covid-19-positive truck driver has visited both buildings to unload goods. The move is a fresh setback for the unit, which had only recently limped back to resuming production amid the nationwide lockdown. The truck driver had traveled from Maharashtra to Udham Singh Nagar via Haridwar and was quarantined by police. After he tested positive, he was admitted at Sushila Tiwari hospital in Haldwani for treatment. Upon looking into his travel history, officials found that the man had delivered goods to factories in sector 9 and sector 3 of SIDCUL area. Sources said that the victim had come in contact with several laborers and the warehouse staff at both the factories. Talking to TOI, regional manager of SIDCUL Paritosh Verma said, “The companies have been ordered to shut down and we are trying to find out who came in close contact with the infected truck driver. They will be tested and put in self-quarantine. Health department officials have asked for the factories to be sanitised with disinfectant spray.” An officer of Singnod company, wishing anonymity, said, "We had hardly begun production and now we have to shut down the industry. Human lives are undoubtedly important but so is to run the company as we will not be able to meet out the expenses and give salaries if plant does not go operational.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-factories-visited-by-corona-positive-truck-driver-shut-down/articleshow/75523358.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 4, 2020||Pune||Retirement ceremony of cops wrapped up via text this month||PUNE: Retired police inspector Appasaheb Waghmale — like many other officers who had served the police department diligently over the years — wanted his farewell ceremony to be a special one. “I wanted to retire in the presence of my family members, wearing a new uniform that I had planned to get stitched for the occasion. However, due to coronavirus spread, everything had to be put on hold. I worked till the last day in the office and retired in a small ceremony,” Waghmale said. Waghmale worked for last one month in the red zone areas of the city and maintained security and law and order situation at the quarantine facilities. On April 30, as many as 15 police personnel retired from the services of the state police department. Waghmale was one of them. Generally, a ceremony is organised every month, either at police commissioner’s office or Shivajinagar police headquarters, in the presence of police personnel and their family members. But the April-end function took place in the presence of only three serving policemen and 16 personnel who retired at the Shivajinagar police headquarters without any family members and speeches. The retirement ceremonies are graced by the police commissioner, joint police commissioner and other senior police officers as a rule. However, this time around, city police commissioner K Venkatesham parted with the retiring police officers by sending them a WhatsApp message. Assistant commissioner of police Kalyanrao Vidhate and senior police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav also greeted the outgoing police personnel in a similar fashion. Along with Waghmale, senior inspector Raghunath Jadhav also retired. “I gave 38 years to the department. I had wished a good ceremony on my retirement day. But coronavirus took all that away from me. What to do? We had poor luck,” he said. Both the officers said that they worked relentlessly and executed the bandobast during the lockdown period and retired in a simple ceremony. “Let it be. We will continue to work henceforth also,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retirement-ceremony-of-cops-wrapped-up-via-text-this-month/articleshow/75524652.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||No private hospital planned for a pandemic: Dr Anup Marar||Nagpur: The administration in Nagpur wants to use private hospitals to combat Covid-19 by treating positive patients there. This has upset those who run the private hospitals. On behalf of Vidarbha Hospitals Association, its convener Dr Anup Marar, who is also the managing director of the Orange City Hospitals and Research Institute, speaks to TOI on why it is a faulty move and likely to cause more problems.Excerpts:Can you explain what exactly is the problem?We have an excellent relationship with the administration and have even loaned equipment to government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Suddenly, The administration came out with a list of 12 hospitals which were asked to be in a state of readiness to treat positive patients. All this had to be done under specified norms inside two days. We are already working under strain, so how can we create infrastructural facilities like rest rooms, isolation wards etc? We just don’t have the wherewithal.Are private hospitals equipped to treat Covid-19 patients?Some newer hospitals do have isolation blocks. Not the older ones. Whenever we would get contagious disease cases we would refer them to isolation hospitals. It is not technically possible to convert private hospitals with all norms. Who would be accountable for the shortcomings? The accountability should lie with the government if at all it intends to process the order.Has the administration been receptive to your problems?The VHA has written to the administration pointing out the shortcomings under 4-5 heads. I don’t blame the authorities who are trying to be very proactive. But who is going to bear the recurring financial expenses? We had earlier suggested that all government hospitals with buffer land should be converted into Covid hospitals.Can all hospitals be blocked for Covid treatment?No, where will the accident and delivery cases go? Private hospitals can treat all non-Covid cases under government schemes. Hospitals in residential areas should be kept for non-Covid patients.The administration has been saying it has all powers to take over private hospitals.No, not taking over which would mean handing over our buildings to it. We have only been asked to be in a state of readiness and create facilities. This is the problem.Is treating non-Covid patients the only way private hospitals can contribute during this pandemic?The situation is very dynamic. What the future holds nobody knows. Considering the beds available in secondary and tertiary care, segregation of Covid-19 patients is the best thing to do now. Asymptomatic patients should not be hospitalized. They should be home quarantined or based in institutional facilities so that the available resources can be used beneficially. Every bed has to be for serious patients only. The VHA has also suggested that portable bedside oxygen concentrators be made available. This is easier than having piped oxygen or ventilators.What would happen after all government hospitals are full?The projected numbers are scary. If it increases, the solution could be to place patients in big halls with separate entries. If the projection goes into lakhs, patients will have to be at their homes with oxygen. It is a new thing for everybody.Would private hospitals be willing to treat Covid patients for a cost?Many in Delhi and Mumbai already have isolation blocks. They can surely consider this. Nagpur has always been a city of nursing homes with 50-100 beds scattered all over. In bigger cities, the private hospitals have 500-800 bed capacity. In Nagpur there is not enough land.Private hospitals seem to be worried of the damage to their reputation.We know our goodwill will go up if we are part of the Covid treatment. But, right now, it is a scary situation. If the virus spreads to other parts, will we be held responsible? Some patients have charged hospitals and even doctors have got infected from patients. In such cases, the entire hospital gets blocked and the team quarantined for 14 days. No private hospital has planned for a pandemic.Have you approached higher authorities?All are worried about the future and how we can be part of the process. Private hospitals cannot shirk away from our responsibilities. We have play within the limitations and overcome the shortcomings. Meetings are on for a mutually agreeable decision. (Watch the interview on facebook.com/toinagpur & twitter.com/TOI_Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-private-hospital-planned-for-a-pandemic-dr-anup-marar/articleshow/75524005.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Three persons die while 114 test positive for Covid-19||Jaipur: Three persons died taking the toll to 71 while 114 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday. Two persons died in Jaipur. Pratapgarh witnessed first death due to Covid-19. Out of 71 deaths, 40 have happened in Jaipur. A 35-year-old person, who was brought to district hospital in Pratapgarh died on Saturday. His samples were taken after his death. “The test report was issued on Sunday which came positive. He was brought to the district hospital on April 1 with complaints of breathlessness as he was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection. While undergoing treatment, he died. The doctors suspected him as a Covid-19 case and took his sample,” said a health department official in Pratapgarh. In Centre’s list of districts, Pratapgarh was classified as green zone. But, on Sunday, Pratapgarh reported two cases and one death. A 52-year-old man, resident of Madhavdas Colony at Ramgarh Mod, died at SMS hospital on Saturday. An 85-year-old woman, resident of Station Road was rushed to SMS hospital on Saturday, but doctors declared her brought dead. Her test report issued on Sunday showed that she was Covid-19 positive. The state reported 114 cases on Sunday taking the total cases to 2,886. The districts which reported coronavirus cases are Jodhpur (27), Jaipur (32), Udaipur (5), Chittorgarh (40), Ajmer (3), Bharatpur (2), Kota (2), Pratapgarh (2), while one case was reported from Dungarpur. In Jaipur, eight cases have been reported from Bhatta Basti of Shastri Nagar area, eight from Anandpuri of Murlipura, seven from Ramganj, two from Chand Pole Bazaar, one each case Kishan pole Bazaar, Jobner, Basbadanpura, Glass Factory on Tonk Road, Adarsh Nagar, Hasanpura and Chaura Rasta. Army choppers showered flowers on SMS hospital on Sunday to honour doctors and other healthcare staff which have been tirelessly serving the coronavirus patients for two months. Health minister Raghu Sharma, additional chief secretary Rohit Kumar Singh, SMS medical college principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari along with other doctors and healthcare staff were present at the hospital when army choppers showered flowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-persons-die-while-114-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75524412.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Speeding challans for cars parked at home||New Delhi: Gaurav Bhatia, an IT professional, was in for a shock when at 12.16am on April 27 he got a challan of Rs 2,000 for speeding. The Dwarka resident had not stepped out of his home since March 15. When he posted his complaint on the traffic police handle on Twitter, he found at least a dozen others there facing the same issue. Incidentally, most of the complainants claimed that the photograph attached with the notice on the website didn’t open when they clicked on it. “I got worried thinking that my car had been stolen and rushed down to check in the parking lot. The challan was for speeding near IIT on April 26. I checked the website, but didn’t see a photograph of the violation. Either the system needs an update or it has been hacked. People are being harassed by the wrong challans,” said Bhatia. For Santosh Ranjan, who lives in Nangloi, the challan was issued for a vehicle he didn’t even own. “I got a challan for jumping the red light in Dwarka on March 30. However, when I opened the photograph it showed a car registered in Jharkhand. I don’t own a car registered in Jharkhand or have any relatives there,” he said. Bhavya Sharma, a student, said his father woke him up in the morning and asked him to check the challan message sent for speeding on April 3 at Ghazipur. “My entire family hasn’t gone out of the house in weeks. The car in the photo isn’t ours. My family is worried. We live in Rohini and none of us have been to Ghazipur. The same can be verified from CCTV cameras,” he added. Traffic police haven’t ruled out the possibility of vehicles with fake numberplates plying in the city. They claimed that the wrong image being attached with a challan is a first. Taj Hassan, special commissioner (traffic), said, “It is impossible for the system to make such errors. We request people to mail us their grievances and we will resolve them. Since the speed detection cameras were introduced, everything is automated with zero human intervention.” An inquiry has been started into the complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/speeding-challans-for-cars-parked-at-home/articleshow/75517924.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Crowded rehab centres may turn clusters: Experts||CHENNAI: If there was anything 30-year-old Chennai resident Mohan (name changed) wanted following his recent relapse of alcoholism, it was a need to control his life and choices. To achieve this, he enrolled himself into a deaddiction centre in Mangadu four months ago. But looking back, he says the 90-day stay at the rehab wasn’t just a call for help gone wrong, but one that put him through a nightmare. "Most days, I lay cramped up with at least 100 others in various stages of alcohol and narcotics addiction inside a 1,000 sqft space, with no ventilation, separate rooms or beds. We drank tap water and had just one toilet," says Mohan. Experts in the field of deaddiction research say overcrowded, ill-equipped and corrupt rehabilitation centres can become potential clusters of coronavirus, and if cases haven’t emerged from these institutions, it could be because they haven’t been tested yet. Although the centre in Mangadu said amenities were in place, clients tell a different story. "Patients are kept guarded so that they never step out. They’re so isolated that they’re oblivious to how serious the Covid-19 outbreak in the world is. I left the centre a month-and-a-half ago when the pandemic had just started, and neither were patients tested, nor sent home," says Mohan. With Tasmac outlets shut and sourcing of drugs almost impossible, experts ask what’s preventing centres from sending patients back home until the risk of infection is eliminated. This, more so, when many such centres fall inside containment zones, making it difficult for doctors and psychiatrists to visit them regularly. "No guidelines have been issued for deaddiction centres during the pandemic. It is up to the in-house doctor’s discretion to check patients for infection. Since we’re in lockdown, it’s also difficult to send personnel to inspect their standards of hygiene and physical distancing," says Dr P Poorna Chandrika, director, Institute of Mental Health, which licenses deaddiction centres in the city. "We are however ready to act upon any centre where violations are proved," she says. Experts say people suffering from addiction are vulnerable to Covid-19 because they may suffer from diabetes and blood-borne diseases such as Hepatitis C. Testing is crucial. "Tests need to be conducted even if patients haven’t shown symptoms," says a senior researcher and author in narcotics addiction, who wished to remain anonymous. "Deaddiction centres are not purpose-built. Many are individual homes that double up as rehabs. They may just about meet the minimum requirements such as capacity and number of beds," he says. City-based deaddiction expert and service provider Srinivasan says many in the business are corrupt. "There are centres with nothing less than 130 patients cooped up in a 1,000 sqft hall and denied basic amenities. The management hoodwinks officials who come for testing, by shifting inmates to a stopgap accommodation," he says. "That deaddiction centres are covered under the Mental Health Act further robs patients of their decision-making rights. When corrupt centres force patients to stay on, it becomes detrimental to not just the client, but the system," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crowded-rehab-centres-may-turn-clusters-experts/articleshow/75524007.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Shramik spl leaves for Lucknow with 977 UP migrants||Nagpur: The glee on the faces of hundreds of migrants who lined up to board the ‘Shramik Special’ train between Nagpur and Lucknow was visible. Braving the scorching sun, and putting behind the ordeal they suffered during the month-long lockdown, the migrants were simply overjoyed to return to their native places in Uttar Pradesh. Considering the Bandra incident, where migrants gathered in thousands, the train was kept a closely guarded secret. It was only after a meeting between divisional commissioner and top railway officials on Sunday morning that the plan was announced. The train with 977 migrants from Wardha, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Gadchiroli, and Bhandara districts in Nagpur division left at 7.25pm. The train will cover 974km distance in 14 hours and reach Lucknow at 9.30am on May 4. Divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “We had planned to send 1,000 plus migrants but some travellers cancelled at the last moment.” Those who boarded the train included 133 people from Bhandara 133, Wardha (220), Chandrapur (289), Gadchiroli (108), Nagpur (227). “All the passengers were brought in buses filled only to half the carrying capacity. From Chandrapur district, 307 registered their names but 289 travelled. Civic body paid Rs60,000 towards private bus transport while Rs1.45 lakh was paid to the railways. The migrants paid 90% of the train ticket fare, while those who couldn’t pay this gor help from NGOs,” said deputy commissioner Gajanan Bokde, Chandrapur. In Nagpur district alone, there are still 6,710 migrants remaining at various NMC shelters. “Plans are afoot to shift them to their native places,” source said. On Sunday, every migrant had a different story to tell. “Some 14 of us worked at civil construction sites in Ahmednagar. After lockdown, we lost our jobs and were left with nothing. We started walking to our native place Banda in UP. However, after walking 600km we were stopped at Wardha on April 8-9. Since then we were in a school being fed by teacher-volunteers. They arranged for our travel by registering our names with the district administration. We paid Rs505 each,” said Pankaj and Vinod Verma. Guardian minister Nitin Raut flayed the Railway Board for charging Rs505 from poor migrants. The money should have been given from the PM’s Care Fund. “I’ve contributed Rs5 lakh myself to benefit the migrants,” he added. The migrants included not only workers but families who stayed in these districts running petty businesses, but lost employment due to lockdown. For example, Priti Saxena used to help her husband run a sugar cane juice stall at Hinganghat, but the couple with their kids were returning to Itawah. “We will come back when normalcy returns,” she said. Santram Kanojia had come to Nimji (Kalmeshwar) nine months ago in search of a job. He worked as a farm hand but was returning with his wife to Kanpur. Like Kanojia, there were other small businessmen, students, tourists, pilgrims and guests. For all it was a happy ending. The entire operation was well coordinated by NMC officials, city police and railway administration. All migrants were lined up outside the station and allowed inside after showing tickets. Social distancing was maintained and all migrants wore masks. Around 54 migrants were allowed in each coach. Media was barred from entering the platform. NMC deputy commissioner (tax) Milind Meshram headed the team that distributed masks, lunch, bananas, biscuits and two water bottles to the migrants at the entry point. Meshram said, “We had made available online form and Google sheet of registered migrants. Our Covid-19 warriors, group of NGOs working with NMC, helped people register with us. Every 3 seconds, 10 people registered. We may plan to shift other migrants as well.” There were also eight migrants who reached the station on coming to know of the train from news channel. They were accommodated and allowed to travel in place of some cancellations. They were travelling to Gorakhpur, which is 400km from Lucknow. However, another group of 10 rushing to the station just as the train was set to leave, was stopped by cops near KP ground. All of them, natives of Gonda and Balrampur in UP, had been staying sat Khapri post the lockdown. More ‘Shramaik Specials’ expected Though railway officials are mum on the movement of Shramik Special trains, according to district administration officials some more trains are expected towards Patna in Bihar and Jaipur in Rajasthan. There are still over 6,700 migrants in the district. Most of them are from these two states and Madhya Pradesh. A plan is also doing the rounds to shift these migrants from nearby places like Balaghat, Chhindwara and Seoni in buses or run special trains. The modalities are also being worked out to ferry migrants from Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shramik-spl-leaves-for-lucknow-with-977-up-migrants/articleshow/75524457.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 4, 2020||Indore||Migrants won’t pay anything for home trip: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that no MP migrant returning home will have to pay train fare. “I have been informed that train fare was charged at Nashik from some labourers returning to MP. Ensure that no labourer has to pay for his ride home,” CM told officials after a video-conference with collectors in the evening. Chouhan urged migrants to dial the toll-free helpline 0755-2411180 to have their queries answered and know how to return home. The Madhya Pradesh government has written to the railways for 31 trains to bring all its migrants back. The CM said lockdown 3.0 will be a lockdown with a difference. “While continuing to fight the pandemic, efforts need to be made to gradually start all activities essential for livelihood. There is a need to change our lifestyle and learn to live with corona, as there is no medicine for the virus yet,” he said. Chouhan praised PM Narendra Modi for taking adequate steps to control Corona, and appealed to people “not to see corona infected people with hatred”. “The situation has improved a lot in MP but we must be alert as even a little carelessness will worsen things,” he said. During a video conference with collectors, he took serious note of the Covid mortality rate in Ujjain and ordered a special team of doctors to be sent there. Ordering strict surveillance, he said people from other states will not be allowed to come to MP without proper permission in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cm-migrants-wont-pay-anything-for-home-trip/articleshow/75525129.cms||Ankur Sirothia
May 4, 2020||Pune||Supriya Sule says civil service students in Pune can go home in four days||PUNE: Member of Parliament Supriya Sule on Sunday said civil service students in the city will be sent back to their homes in the next four days after being tested. Sule was talking to newspersons on Sunday via video conference. Over 2,200 students in Pune want to go back to their hometowns ever since the lockdown was imposed. They had written to the district collector, but no action was taken. Sule spoke to collector Naval Kishore Ram regarding the same and he assured that the students would be sent home and a system would be in place within four days. “The number is less. Around 2,000 students can be easily sent back and the load can be off the administration,” she said. “I have spoken to the district administration and they said the students would be tested before they leave,” she added. Sule said the administration would decide what type of test would be conducted on the students. Mahesh Bade of MPSC Students Rights had taken the initiative to collate the data of such students and submit it to the administration. He said the reason for them to go back was lack of money to pay rent, difficulty accessing meals and the resultant rise in living expenses. He said, “The students were also willing to be in self-quarantine for 14 days once they reached home. We are able to give food to nearly 950 of them everyday but that is not enough. Now, the lockdown has been extended further so it will be better if they are at their homes.” Sule spoke on various topics on Sunday. She said the many issues Pune was facing because of the lockdown would be taken up with the state government and other authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sule-says-civil-service-pupils-can-go-home-in-four-days/articleshow/75524654.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Petition to LG against minorities panel chief||New Delhi: A group of eminent persons, comprising retired judges, armed forces veterans, former bureaucrats and intellectuals, has written a letter to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking removal of Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan for a controversial and “provocative” social media post in which he thanked Kuwait for “standing with Indian Muslims”. “A Facebook post of Zafarul-Islam Khan has brought dishonour to the nation. This is an unbecoming conduct, displayed by a very important functionary of the Delhi governmentt,” the group said in the letter, which has 106 signatories, including six retired judges, 43 former army officers of the rank of LG and Maj Gen (many of them ’71 war veterans), 20 retired civil servants and 10 intellectuals. The letter said, “We the ‘Concerned Citizens of India’ are deeply peeved and have therefore, approach the LG of Delhi to remove Zafarul Islam Khan from the post of chairman Delhi Minorities Commission as he has lost the moral and legitimate right to hold such an exalted post having indulged in anti-India activities and has brought dishonour to the nation.” Signatories include former high court judges like SN Dhingra, SM Soni, Pernod Kohli, MM Kumar, Ambaras Joshi, MC Garg; retired bureaucrats Saurabh Kaushal, KK Mittal and M Meena; ex diplomats Bhaswati Mukherjee, Vidya Sagar, P Stondan; and armed forces veterans like former Air Marshal Dushyant Singh and LGs Gurmeet Singh, Arvind Sharma, Karan Singh Yadava, S Ravi Shankar. On Tuesday, Khan shared a provocative post on Facebook to thank Kuwait for “standing with the Indian Muslims” and referred to “Hindutva bigots”, who according to him, miscalculated the reaction of the Arab world about the “persecution of Muslims in India”. He also hailed controversial Islamic “preacher” Zakir Naik in his post as he claimed people like Naik are respectful household names in the Muslim world. However, on Friday, Islam tendered an apology, saying that his tweet was “ill-timed” and “insensitive” in the light of the coronavirus outbreak. While apologising, he claimed that the matter was blown “out of proportion”. The remarks were posted by Khan on Tuesday but deleted after sometime. The Delhi Police has booked Khan for sedition (IPC Section 124A) and promoting religious animosity (IPC Section 153A).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/petition-to-lg-against-minorities-panel-chief/articleshow/75517951.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||As school go digital, several issues disrupt learning for students||Dehradun: As the outbreak of novel coronavirus has forced a temporary shutting down of schools, online classes have been launched for students so that their academic session is not impacted. This, however, has invoked mixed reactions from parents who complain of several issues ranging from strain on eyes because of increased screen time to connectivity issues. “My son has to spend half of his day on mobile as all the study content is being made available on WhatsApp by his school. Children should not be exposed to mobile phones for such a long time as it can put strain on their eyes,” said Kavita Khan, a local resident. Another parent, Veena Sharma told TOI, “The classes of my children are conducted through Zoom app and it disconnects frequently. This makes it difficult for a child to keep up with the rest of the class.” On a similar note, Dharmendra Thakur, a city resident, said, “I have noticed that children are unable to clear their doubts properly during online sessions. Also, they are being burdened with a lot of homework as online sessions don’t leave much bandwidth for more classwork.” Meanwhile, the National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) has decided to take this matter p with officials. “I have been receiving several complaints from parents. Also, the standard of online education being provided by certain city schools is not up to the mark. Small children are getting exposed to mobile screens for a very long time which is not good for their health. Additionally, the students who have got admission through RTE (Right to Education) Act in different schools are from humble backgrounds and do not have access to internet or smart gadgets,” said Arif Khan, president of NAPSR. He further said, “It is becoming difficult for school students to focus on learning due to logistical and other issues. Schools should take note of this and address the issue appropriately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-school-go-digital-several-issues-disrupt-learning-for-students/articleshow/75523371.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Dept probe into assault allegation against cop||Kolkata: An assistant commissioner of police is on the verge of completing an internal inquiry after a senior manager, working with a software firm in Bengaluru, alleged that he had been assaulted by cops on April 28. The complainant Raju Nath, an IIM Lucknow graduate, claimed that he was stopped by the police near Vidyasagar Hospital and brought to book for not wearing a helmet. But the Parnasree police claimed that when he had been placed under arrest, he had allegedly assaulted the Parnasree police. Nath said that he had gone out with his wife to buy medicines for his daughter when the incident happened. The couple staying at Rabindra Nagar had moved the commissioner’s office and Kolkata Police to lodge a complaint against the police. Nath produced a medical report from SSKM, which mentioned “traumatic perforation” in his left ear along with fever as evidence that he had been hit on his head and ears by a sub-inspector. “I have provided a video evidence. I am a middle class man and an educated person. It hurts when I see that I am being portrayed as the accused even when I am not hearing well in the past two days due to my injuries,” Nath told TOI. The Parnasree police refused to comment on the issue. An officer said, “It was surprising that none of the injuries that were alleged by Nath were mentioned in the medical report prepared after his arrest.”  DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas said departmental protocol was followed for probing the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dept-probe-into-assault-allegation-against-cop/articleshow/75524027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||Migrants won’t pay anything for home trip: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that no MP migrant returning home will have to pay train fare. “I have been informed that train fare was charged at Nashik from some labourers returning to MP. Ensure that no labourer has to pay for his ride home,” CM told officials after a video-conference with collectors in the evening. Chouhan urged migrants to dial the toll-free helpline 0755-2411180 to have their queries answered and know how to return home. The Madhya Pradesh government has written to the railways for 31 trains to bring all its migrants back. The CM said lockdown 3.0 will be a lockdown with a difference. “While continuing to fight the pandemic, efforts need to be made to gradually start all activities essential for livelihood. There is a need to change our lifestyle and learn to live with corona, as there is no medicine for the virus yet,” he said. Chouhan praised PM Narendra Modi for taking adequate steps to control Corona, and appealed to people “not to see corona infected people with hatred”. “The situation has improved a lot in MP but we must be alert as even a little carelessness will worsen things,” he said. During a video conference with collectors, he took serious note of the Covid mortality rate in Ujjain and ordered a special team of doctors to be sent there. Ordering strict surveillance, he said people from other states will not be allowed to come to MP without proper permission in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-migrants-wont-pay-anything-for-home-trip/articleshow/75524413.cms||Ankur Sirothia
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||State to have RSRTC bus service in districts under green zone||Jaipur: Following the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs, the state government during the ongoing modified lockdown issued orders on Sunday to operate the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) buses in the green zones of the state. This has given a signal to operate buses in the districts including Sirohi, Jalore, Sriganganagar, Pratapgarh, Bundi and Baran which are categorized as green zone where no Covid-19 positive cases are reported so far. Naveen Jain, chairman and managing director (CMD) of RSRTC said as per the orders of the state government, the corporation is geared up to operate buses in the depots situated in the green zones in the state. “All these buses would be operated in the borders of the green zone districts. Also, the seating capacity in these buses will be restricted to 50%,” said Jain on Sunday . These buses would be operated as per demand and directions by the districts collectors of the districts coming under green zone, he added. So far, as per the health department, the districts including Sriganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, Pratapgarh, Bundi and Baran are green zone where no Covid-19 cases are reported so far. “The district collectors concerned would decide and raise a demand before us to start buses. Also, buses from green zone district won’t be allowed to travel to orange or red zone districts in the state till further orders,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. After the nod from the state government, the CMD, RSRTC too has written to its depot managers to be prepared for the operation of buses in the green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-have-rsrtc-bus-service-in-districts-under-green-zone/articleshow/75524416.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Four from Pune in judicial custody test positive in Satara||PUNE: Four people, including a woman, who were in judicial custody and shifted last week from Pune to the Satara district jail, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. This is the first instance in the state of a jail facility reporting arrested persons testing positive for the contagion. The four inmates were in a group of 48 arrested people who were shifted to the Satara jail. Additional director general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI, “Of the four, two men were arrested by the Pune rural police from Alandi, one man was nabbed by the Sinhagad Road police and the woman by the Chinchwad police. They were involved in crimes like assault on public servants, body offences and disobedience of order. All four have been kept in a quarantine facility set up outside the Satara district jail. The respective police units have been alerted for the contact tracing exercise.” Ramanand said, “The 48 people, arrested over the last week or two for different crimes, were sent in batches to the Satara jail on April 29 and 30 after their remand in police custody ended. This is because Pune’s Yerawada central jail is under a strict lockdown with no one allowed to move in or out. At Satara, those arrested are placed at an isolation facility for Covid-19 tests before being lodged in the jail. The jail officials received their reports on Saturday evening and Sunday morning, which showed that four had tested positive.” Ramanand said, “Medical tests are mandatorily conducted on those arrested before they are lodged in prison. Till their reports come, they are kept in the isolation facility outside the jail for 14 days. After the quarantine period is over, they are shifted to the main prison.” Since the Yerawada jail has been locked down, those arrested and sent to judicial custody are directed to smaller prisons located near Pune. “All these smaller prisons have quarantine facilities,” Ramanand said. Medical teams from the district health department are collecting the swabs, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-from-pune-in-judicial-custody-test-ve-in-satara/articleshow/75524658.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur touches 44.2 degree Celsius, second hottest in region||Nagpur: The city recorded the highest temperature of the season till date on Sunday, with the maximum mercury levels rising to 44.2 degree Celsius, which was nearly two degrees above normal temperature. The city was the second hottest in the region. The earlier highest temperature was recorded on April 17, when the city’s maximum temperature was 43.4 degree Celsius. Other parts of Vidarbha too witnessed a rise in maximum and minimum temperatures. On Sunday, the hottest in the region was Akola at 44.9 degree Celsius. Brahmapuri was the third hottest in the region with a maximum temperature of 44.1 degree Celsius. Amravati and Chandrapur both were at 43.8 degree Celsius while Gondia and Gadchiroli recorded maximum temperatures of 42.6 and 42 degree Celsius respectively. The maximum temperature in Nagpur started rising from mid-April. It first touched 40 degrees on April 11 and since then the mercury levels have mostly been above 40 degrees. The nights also started getting warmer with a rise in minimum temperatures post April 17. The highest minimum temperature of the month was recorded on April 27 at 25.2 degree Celsius. Amid the scorching heat, citizens also got some relief with intermittent rainfall. In the month of April, the city received a total of 15.8 millimetres rain. According to officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, pre-monsoon rain is expected to hit the city this month too. Officials stated that the wind discontinuity is persisting in lower levels and that is causing rainfall in Vidarbha. As per the forecast of the met department, a few spells of rain are expected on May 7 and 8 in some parts of the region. On May 4 and 5, some parts of the region will witness heatwave like conditions too. The maximum temperature in the city might witness a drop following pre-monsoon rain but is expected to rise again in the coming week. As per RMC’s forecast, it might reach 45 degree Celsius by May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-touches-44-2-degree-celsius-second-hottest-in-region/articleshow/75524035.cms||Manka Behl
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cases of encroachments, poaching drop in district||Visakhapatnam: The nationwide lockdown has not only reduced instances of man-animal conflicts, but also poaching and encroachment of forest land. Speaking to STOI, chief conservator or forests Rahul Pandey said, “The positive impact of the lockdown is truly visible. We have hardly seen any forest fires, encroachment activity, poaching, or even timber smuggling.” He pointed out that while timber smuggling has been on the wane mainly due to fall in demand, encroachments are what keeps the forest department on its toes. “Forest fires and encroachment of forest land are directly linked. Almost all forest fires are man-made and wanton. But this year the extent of such fires have not exceeded 168 hectares in entire Visakhapatnam circle,” Pandey said. When asked about poaching activity, Pandey said that no cases were reported between March and May in Kambalakonda reserve forest, while there were two cases last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-of-encroachments-poaching-drop-in-district/articleshow/75522487.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Liquor shops to open today in Kolkata's non-containment zones||KOLKATA: After five dry weeks, tipplers in Kolkata will finally get a taste of their favourite booze. In a major development, off-shops in non-containment zones in Kolkata have been allowed to open from 12pm on Monday. Around 35-40 such liquor shops will roll their shutters up in central and some parts of south Kolkata. The timings, however, may change from Tuesday depending on instructions from Nabanna. Initially, the excise department had verbally informed off-shop owners in green and orange zones that they could open. After taking stock of the situation in the city, it has decided to go ahead with the plan in Kolkata too. “We received calls from excise officials to open our shop from Monday,” said an off-shop owner in a non-containment zone in central Kolkata. The city has over 600 off-shops, but, according to sources, only a few of them will open. However, as of now, all shops in north Kolkata will remain shut because of the containment-zone rule. The state excise department on Sunday initiated the groundwork for resuming liquor trade. All the deputy excise commissioners were asked to prepare a list of stand-alone off-shops in non-containment zones and discuss them with the respective excise superintendents on Sunday. The MHA has allowed off-shops to open in all non- containment zones, irrespective of green, orange or red. “Deputy excise commissioners will assess the number of off-shops outside market complexes or malls in their respective areas. In case of red zones, they will assess if the shop is in a containment zone,” a source said. On Saturday, there had been a dozen circulars — allegedly from the excise department — doing the rounds on social media. However, it has been learnt that the department has not issued any official circular for resumption of liquor trade following the MHA directive. A retailer told TOI that, as far as he knew, liquor shops would open from Monday in green and orange zones and some parts of red zones. “If off-shops open in red zones, it will be for a shorter period than in the other areas,” he said. In the green and orange zones, off-shops will open at 10am. A few states, including Karnataka, Assam, Maharastra and Meghalaya, have also allowed liquor shops to open from Monday. In another development, Bevco heads have been told to join work at respective warehouses by 10am on Monday. “Most of the Bevco warehouses have already started the process to resume operations,” added a source. Bengal has 22 Bevco warehouses and all of them are likely to reopen on Monday. Amrit Kiran Singh, executive chairman of International Spirits and Wine Association of India, had earlier told TOI that it has advised all state excise departments to implement ‘Project Safe Shield’ — guidelines on how to sell liquor during the lockdown and beyond — while reopening off-shops. Bengal has an annual market for 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL, which includes whisky, rum and vodka, and 8 million (80 lakh) cases of beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-shops-to-open-today-in-non-containment-zones/articleshow/75524036.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Child drinks roach pesticide, suffers continuous seizures||Bengaluru: A three-year-old girl mistook pyrethroid solution, a cockroach pesticide, for a soda-based beverage and took a sip, following which she suffered continuous seizures. In need of life-saving treatment and paediatric emergency specialists amid lockdown, the girl had to be shifted from one hospital to another. The girl was finally brought to People Tree Hospital near Yeshwantpur close to midnight on April 24, more than 10 hours after the incident. Her condition stabilised on April 26 and she was discharged. The child’s father told TOI the pesticide had been transferred to an empty beverage bottle. “We had kept the bottle on the terrace balcony, along with plants, so as to keep it away from the kids. But somehow my daughter saw the bottle and took a sip from it thinking it to be juice. The liquid fell on her hand and dress and its rancid smell was hard to miss,” he said. She was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, but the family wasn’t satisfied with the treatment as the girl’s seizures hadn’t stopped. Around 11pm on April 24, she was taken to People Tree Hospital. The girl was first intubated in the ICU. The doctors wanted to understand what was it that she gulped and the bottle had to be brought to the hospital. “Initially, it wasn’t clear what she consumed. Only later we realised it could be pyrethroid,” said Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, consultant paediatric intensivist chief, People Tree paediatrics. The doctors rang up the poison helpline of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi and consulted experts. “When she was brought to the hospital, neither was she responding to verbal communication nor was she able to open her eyes. She was comatose. She responded to treatment and improved the next day,” said Dr Supraja. Dr Supraja said since the announcement of the lockdown, they have seen three more similar cases. "These include an eucalyptus ingestion leading to seizures in a two-year-old boy, a child who inhaled floor cleaner kept in a beverage bottle and another who sucked the wick of a mosquito repellent," she added, suggesting parents be careful to avert absolutely preventable paediatric emergencies. Things at home that could be dangerous for kids * Mothballs: Contain either naphthalene or para dichlorobenzene. They are fumigants (volatilised into the air) * Nail polish remover, nail-glue remover * Hydrocarbons such as kerosene, lamp oil, gasoline, paint thinners, furniture polishes, motor oils * Alcohol * Mosquito repellent liquids, coils * Pesticides and insecticides * Medicines and ointments * batteries, which are mostly lithium coin cells How to stay safe * Discard all leftover chemicals like paints, varnish, turpentine oils once work is over * Keep all chemicals out of sight for kids * Keep chemicals in ‘original labelled’ containers * Don’t transfer chemicals to beverage bottles *Never mix or work with chemicals in front of children||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/child-drinks-roach-pesticide-suffers-continuous-seizures/articleshow/75523854.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown games lead to cluster in Ashok Ngr street||Chennai: In yet another case of an emerging cluster in the city, more than 24 people have tested positive in Ashok Nagar Pudur 11th Street on Sunday. Corporation officials said a majority of the cases are contacts who played carrom, ludo with the primary sources. The primary sources were two people aged 40 and 25 years, who took to selling vegetables during the lockdown. Both had visited the Koyambedu market, from where they are suspected to have contracted the virus. Corporation officials said one of them is a construction worker who took to selling vegetables as there was no construction activity in the city for the past 45 days. After showing symptoms, the two tested positive on May 1 (Friday), after which the street was brought under containment and their immediate family and other contacts were traced. It was then that the officials realised that apart from selling vegetables, the two had also played carrom, ludo with friends in their street to kill time. Samples were taken from as many as 50 of them, of whom 22 have tested positive, said an official. Ashok Nagar falls under Kodambakkam zone (Zone 10), which has recorded 199 positive cases till date — the third highest in the city behind, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar (Zone 6- 322 cases), Royapuram (Zone 5- 275 cases). Koyambedu wholesale market falls under this zone. From just 60 cases on April 27 to 199 cases on May 3, the number of cases has trebled in the zone in a week. Vadapalani market is already under containment since April 24 after a vendor there was tested positive. The increase in the number of cases has made residents pensive. “Most of the vendors buy vegetables, fruits and flowers from the Koyambedu market. Health officials should test all vendors as they will not come forward to get themselves tested. The recent rise in cases is due to Koyambedu only,” said Vasanthi Kannan, a resident of Kodambakkam. In V R Pillai street in Triplicane, in which 42 people had tested positive until Saturday, the number has increased to 52, special nodal officer for Chennai J Radhakrishnan said. Two residents of the street — relatives, who were volunteering and distributing food and refreshments in and around the neighbourhood — were the primary sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-games-lead-to-cluster-in-ashok-ngr-street/articleshow/75524038.cms||Srikkanth D
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Four defeat virus in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: Four patients of coronavirus from Chhota Udepur were discharged on Sunday as their repeated tests turned out to be negative. So far, 10 patients from the district have been cured and four others continue to undergo treatment. The peon of Chhota Udepur general hospital, Chetan Rathwa, who had worked in the isolation ward, and three persons living near railway station – Nazim Bakar, Irshad Bakar and Faizal Mala – were discharged on Sunday. As the four patients got out of the isolation ward, they were applauded by the hospital staff, office-bearers of Chhota Udepur municipality for defeating the deadly virus. All four of them will now undergo self-quarantine for two weeks as per the protocol. “Four other patients who are currently under treatment will hopefully be discharged next week if their consecutive tests will be negative,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-defeat-virus-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/75522838.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: College-goers studying in Kota may face scrutiny||PUNE: Students from the city, who returned from Kota in Rajasthan on Saturday, may have jumped from the frying pan into the fire. The authorities have come to understand that a number of the youngsters were, in fact, registered as students of colleges in Pune even as they were preparing for entrance exams in another state. Commissioner of education Vishal Solanki has ordered an inquiry in relation to such students. “We have the list and details of all students, who returned from Kota, and their admission details will be sought for further action,” Solanki stated. Kota has turned into a hub for coaching classes that prepare students for entrance examinations held for Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Students enrol for the coaching classes from across the country. A number of students from Maharashtra were stranded in Kota after the lockdown and the Rajasthan administration decided to send them back to their respective cities. As a result, over 70 students from Pune returned to the city, travelling in state transport buses. Some parents made the education department aware that many students had taken admission Pune colleges and their attendance was being marked illegally. Solanki told TOI, “At present, our focus is on making students comfortable and letting them rest after having returned from Kota. Once they are settled, we will follow up with the list of students and their details that are in our possession. Later, we will conduct a proper inquiry into the matter to find out the truth and take appropriate action thereafter.” The education department had also enforced biometric attendance two years ago in junior colleges across the state. However, implementation of the system has been very poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/college-goers-studying-in-kota-may-face-scrutiny/articleshow/75524657.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||HIGH-5: MEET THE 60+ COVID-BEATERS||Bhopal: While it is a given fact that the elderly are more at Covid-19 risk than the younger population, a few instances of elders who have recovered from the deadly virus gives us hope. TOI gives a glimpse of cases where vulnerable elders people with underlying medical conditions emerged victorious after a bout of Covid-19. Abida Begum, 80 The 80-year-old, who suffers from blood pressure problems, has successfully battled Covid-19. Incidetally, the senior citizen had witnessed the MiC gas leak of 1984 that took place in Bhopal. Though vulnerable, even at 80, Abida Begum remains feisty and can pillion ride a motorcycle, if needed. “We do not necessarily have to bring out the car for my grandmother,” said emergency health services worker, Hashmin Khalid. Abida Begum tested positive for the deadly contagion, four days after her son and daughter-in-law tested positive for Covid-19 Her son is a health worker too. “I was standing on my feet in seven days,” she said. She was in the room next to her son. So what does she credit her quick recovery to? Compassionate treatment by the hospital and living in a joint family system, she says. She was admitted to the hospital on April 14 and was discharged on April 28. Dr Upendra Dubey, 64 Health department veteran, Dr Upendra Dubey, is 64. Not only did he himself fight Covid-19, but he also cared for his wife and son who too tested positive for coronavirus . “I am over 60, with diabetes and other pre-existing conditions. I had fever for more than a week. That was a worry. But when my levels stabilised, I realised my body was producing sufficient antibodies for me to recover,” said Dr Dubey, who is deputy director in the health department. His wife and son have also been discharged. Currently, they are in home quarantine of 14 days. Dr Dubey is on work from home duty. Ram Bharati, 75 The senior citizen was hospitalised for the first time in his life when he was diagnosed with COVID-19. During hospitalisation in Bhopal, away from his family in Itarsi, he started operating a smartphone for the first time. A resident of Itarsi, about 100km from Bhopal, Bharati tested positive for Covid-19 on April 10. He worked in a clinic where a doctor had tested corona-positive. After his hospitalisation, Bharati returned to Itarsi on April 24. After four days in quarantine at Itarsi, he returned home. Bharati lives in a small house with 11 people. His lifestyle at 75 is perhaps what made the elderly man triumph over Covid-19. “My father walked about 3 km to the clinic. His daily routine was leaving the house at 8 am and returning past sunset. He also visited other locations where he cooked on special occasions,” said Bharati’s 35-year-old son, Mandlesh. S K Mehmood, 78 The 78-year-old was diagnosed with COVID-19 on April 2 and recovered on April 20. The former mechanic’s lifestyle is a key reason for his quick recovery. Early to bed and early to rise, Mehmood sleeps by 10 pm and wakes up at 3 am every day. Extended morning walks and reading are part of his daily routine. Eating a balanced diet and citrus fruits was his stable diet, before the advent of Covid-19, “The body is like a machine. If you take care of its maintenance on regular basis, you do not get into a medical emergency,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/high-5-meet-the-60-covid-beaters/articleshow/75524439.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Info dept rescues ill woman pushed out of PG facility||Bengaluru: An ailing orphan woman forced to vacate her paying guest accommodation and found stranded in front of Jayadeva hospital was rescued on Saturday night by the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), after a BBMP doctor tweeted about her plight. The 104 and 108 helplines refused to come to her rescue. The DPIR’s quick-response team reached the spot with an ambulance within an hour of the tweet and took the woman to Jayanagar government hospital where she was provided food. The 31-year-old woman, Meena, worked as a call centre employee in Bengaluru. Originally from Hyderabad, she recently lost her job.“She was asked to vacate the PG in BTM Layout because other inmates complained about her medical condition. She first called the ambulance complaining of breathlessness. However, after she reached Jayadeva hospital, she was not given admission as she had no cardiac condition. This is when medical volunteers called me to inform about her case. I first did a video consultation with the patient to ensure it’s not a Covid-related case,” said Dr Bhaskar Rajkumar, a medical officer with BBMP and also a volunteer with the DIPR. “Orphan girl, pushed out of PG - having breathlessness and ear abscess is stranded in front of Jayadeva - 104 and 108 declined to take her - Kindly Help,” Dr Bhaskar tweeted at 10:56pm.At 10:58pm, P Manivannan, secretary, DIPR tweeted, “Please take her immediately to Indira Nagar ESI hospital. An emergency vehicle is at the DIPR control room. @Karmika_Sahaya will alert the doctors at ESI Indiranagar.”The woman was doing better on Sunday, doctors treating her said. A detailed evaluation of her case has been carried out by doctors and treatment is under way. “She will have to stay in the hospital for the next two to three days. We are now coordinating with various people to get her an accommodation. The BBMP has also been informed about the PG that asked her to vacate and appropriate action will be taken,” said Dr Bhaskar. The DIPR has filed a formal complaint against the PG.A TWEET & TIMELY HELP10:56pm: “Orphan girl, pushed out of PG - having breathlessness and ear abscess is stranded in front of Jayadeva - 104 and 108 declined to take her - Kindly Help,” tweeted Dr Bhaskar.10:58pm: “Please take her immediately to Indira Nagar ESI hospital. An emergency vehicle is at the DIPR control room. @Karmika_Sahaya will alert the doctors at ESI Indiranagar,” responded P Manivannan, secretary, DIPR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/info-dept-rescues-ill-woman-pushed-out-of-pg-facility/articleshow/75523816.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Preliminary report shows 21 more positive cases in D’gere||Davanagere: The Davanagere district administration said that 21 people, whose throat swab samples were sent to a lab in Shivamogga, tested positive for Covid-19 as per the preliminary report. Deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said the 21 will be subjected to one more medical test on Monday. The process of contact tracing will be initiated only after the confirmation, he said. Bilagi said the 21 patients are undergoing treatment at the designated Covid hospital here. Confirmation that they contracted coronavirus could push Davanagere city from orange to red zone. It had moved from green zone to orange zone following a spurt in coronavirus positive cases last week. Confirmation of these 21 cases will leave the district with 28 active Covid-19 patients. While two patients have been discharged, one died on April 1. Six cases reported on Friday were linked to P-556 and P-533 who are from Jalingar and Bhashanagar. The district administration has collected the throat swab samples of 330 people from these areas. “Of those, 37 people’s samples were considered as A category and sent for test to Shivamogga. From the 37, 21 were found to be infected with Covid-19 as per the preliminary report on Sunday,” the DC said. Jalinagar and Bhashanagar are the two containment zones in Davanagere now. “The district administration has decided to shut down all economic activities, except the shops selling essential commodities. Strict adherence to social distancing is a must and so is wearing mask to cover nose and mouth while venturing out of the house,” Bilagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/preliminary-report-shows-21-more-positive-cases-in-dgere/articleshow/75522481.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Met issue ‘orange alert’ of hail on May 5||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre has issued a warning saying that isolated places in both hills and plains of Uttarakhand may witness hail, lightning and thunder squall in the next 72 hours. The Met department has also issued a yellow-coloured warning for hail and lightning at several places, especially in the hills, on April 4 and 6. Besides, amber-coloured alert of thunder squall with winds at a speed of 50-60kmph have also been issued for plains on May 5. Moreover, warning has also been issued for heavy rainfall at Nainital, Pauri, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts on May 5. According to Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, "A fresh western disturbance is going to affect the weather in Uttarakhand for the next few days. Thunderstorms, lightning and rainfall are likely to lash parts of the state between April 4 and 6." On Sunday, the weather started changing across the state with light showers accompanied by thunder cloud development witnessed at many places, including state capital Dehradun. Several places received light to moderate showers on Sunday. Dhanolti received 50mm rainfall, while Mussoorie was lashed by 20mm showers. Mercury settled below normal level at most places and is likely to drop further due to expected rain and thunder activity in the state. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 32.4 degrees Celsius, almost two notches below normal level. Similarly, the maximum temperature in Pantnagar remained at 33.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issue-orange-alert-of-hail-on-may-5/articleshow/75523375.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 4, 2020||Nashik||6 sheep killed in leopard attack||Nashik: Six sheep were killed in a leopard attack at Sonambe village in Sinnar taluka of the district. The incident took place in the wee hours of Sunday. The sheep belonged to a farmer called Runja Bodke and were kept in his farmhouse. The forest department was informed about the incident following which, a team was sent to the village. The presence of a big cat in the area has sparked panic among villagers, who have asked the forest department to set up a cage to trap the leopard. A forest department official said they are in the process of setting up the cage. “We have sent a team to the spot and a cage is to be set up at the location where the leopard attacked the sheep,” the official said. There have been several incidents of leopard spotting and attacks in the district. Two boys — a four-year-old in Donwade village near Bhagur area and 12-year-old — have been killed in leopard attacks in the past two weeks. On Saturday, a leopard was trapped in a cage at Shivade village near Sinnar. The cage was set up around a week ago after some villagers had spotted the big cat near the village. On April 29, a five-year-old male leopard was trapped in a cage set up at a village in Niphad taluka of the district. The cage was in place for eight days before the animal was trapped in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-sheep-killed-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/75523379.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||Liquor vends to open today amid strict norms||DEHRADUN: Over 40 days after being closed due to lockdown imposition owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, liquor vends in Dehradun and other districts will open on Monday amid strict guidelines and social distance norms. State excise commissioner Sushil Kumar told TOI that liquor vends would be opened in green, orange and red zones (excluding containment areas). “The liquor shops would be opened like any other commercial establishment and necessary instructions have been passed to all liquor vend owners in this regard.” This year’s excise revenue target is Rs 3,600 crore which officials said may be difficult to achieve considering the losses they have suffered. The state has over 500 liquor vends and six exclusive high end wine shops. Liquor industry insiders say that they have already suffered a loss of Rs 100 crore. "Given the market conditions due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the excise revenue collection is likely to come down to Rs 2,000 crore," said a liquor industry veteran. The reason for the drastic fall in excise revenue collections are plenty according to industry insiders. "There is no business activity in the market. Migrant populations have left and tourist footfall will not be like earlier. The liquor consumption will therefore witness a natural downfall," said a liquor vend owner in Dehradun. The agitated liquor vend owners are also planning to not open their shops and move to the high court against the state excise policy. When queried on this, the excise commissioner said, It is the shopkeepers’ decision to keep the shop open or not." On the sale of the old liquor stock, he said, “They cannot sell it like that. The state government will buy back the stock if they do not have licences this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/liquor-vends-to-open-today-amid-strict-norms/articleshow/75523380.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 4, 2020||India||Migrants on edge as clock ticks & chaos looms||Caught in the chaos of an evacuation exercise too complex to be orderly, despairing migrant workers on Sunday clashed with police in MP, fought among themselves in Gujarat, tried to gatecrash Andhra Pradesh’s borders with Telangana and Odisha from either side and used dirt roads to dodge lengthy registration and screening protocols at checkpoints set up by Rajasthan. Some 7,000 migrant workers blocked the Agra-Bombay Road in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani — a red zone — and attacked police, injuring the additional SP, an SDM and three other cops. They were angry at being blocked on the Maharashtra-MP border and demanded to be allowed to pass through MP on their way to UP, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha. Tempers flared on the Telangana-AP border, too, after hundreds of people, most of them migrant workers, attempted to cross over from either side, only to be confronted by police contingents. In Gujarat’s Kutch, 16 cement factory workers were arrested after a clash broke out between two groups over arranging transport to return to their native UP. Guest workers in Chennai also showed signs of restiveness, with many of them lining to submit self-declaration forms and seek permission to leave. “If the government refuses to help us, we will start walking towards our village in a day or two,” a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-on-edge-as-clock-ticks-chaos-looms/articleshow/75524809.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: College classes too start moving online||KOCHI: As the lockdown has disrupted the academic schedule of college students who were preparing for university exams, the All Kerala Private College Teachers Association (AKPCTA) has started an online learning programme called ‘Learn in Lockdown’ for degree students doing B.A, B.Sc and B.Com. The programme uses the platform of Telegram messaging application by creating groups for each course. Teachers of various colleges under the four universities- Kerala, Kannur, Kozhikode and Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam - post learning materials including audio and video lessons. The initiative has become a success and nearly 1,000 teachers and 98,000 students throughout the state use the platform. Classes for 214 courses are currently taken online. “The Learn in Lockdown programme is a great relief for the students who were frustrated by the social isolation, especially when they have to face exams once the lockdown is lifted," said Sebastian Joseph, head of History department at UC College, Aluva, who is leading the history classes for students under MG University. "The lockdown has led to the loss of more than 50% of academic days in almost all universities and portions are pending in bulk especially for second-semester students. Students are making use of the interactive sessions offered by listening to the recorded lectures of faculties and seek clarification on difficult areas in the syllabus,” he added. As the application enables adding a large number of participants, separate groups have been created for each course. The students join by clicking on the links provided to them by college principals and teachers. Each group is monitored by course coordinators and resource faculties. After providing the lectures based on the syllabus, students are allowed to interact with the teachers by enabling the chat function in the group. “New members of the groups can view previous chats and lectures provided. Now we are planning to give classes to postgraduate students too and a detailed plan is under formulation. Also, the students of Sanksrit under Kerala University had requested to start classes for them and it is now on. Classes will be started for B.Ed students also,” said A S Sumesh, a faculty of MES College, Nedumkandam, a member of the working committee that coordinates the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/college-classes-too-start-moving-online/articleshow/75523411.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||FDA inspects community kitchens, gives tips on hygiene||Nagpur: A team of Foods and Drug Administration (FDA) landed up to inspect some community kitchens on Sunday, but returned without taking any punitive action after learning they were operating in association with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and serving food to around 50,000 beggars and stranded persons daily. There was reportedly some tension when FDA team reached for inspection. NMC sources told TOI, “The FDA teams reached a few community kitchens and asked for license. Some community kitchens have been set up by NGOs and social organizations in association with NMC to serve the needy during lockdown. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi spoke to the FDA officials and suggested no action should be taken. Later, the FDA teams inspected the kitchens, and gave some guidance,” sources said. FDA officials told TOI, “The teams guided the community kitchens on maintaining hygiene and sanitation. It was just a routine inspection. No action has been taken as they are serving needy people.” Since lockdown, teams of NMC and NGOs led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and deputy commissioner Milind Meshram have distributed food to 12.25 lakh beggars, labourers staying in shelter rooms, stranded people and students, as on Sunday. Food is being supplied daily to 49,952 people. Even foodgrains with other essential products have been supplied to 6,638 students as of now. Baby food has been supplied to 72 families. Food is being cooked at 26 community kitchens, of which a few were already licensed, and others were set up on temporary basis across the city after lockdown came into force. NMC officials said, “We and representatives of NGOs are taking outmost care in cooking, conveyance as well as distribution of food. Proper social distancing norms are also being followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fda-inspects-community-kitchens-gives-tips-on-hygiene/articleshow/75524055.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Rlys needs 6hrs to ready trains for guest workers, but no requests from govt yet||Chennai: Southern Railway will need at least six hours to prepare a 24-coach train to ferry guest workers home, after the state government sends a request. But the zone is yet to get such a request from the government. Since, passenger trains are not being operated during the lockdown, rakes parked in the yards need to be checked, cleaned and released for service. Around 50 employees may be needed at the yard for this. A senior railway official said efforts are on to ensure that trains can be arranged at the shortest possible notice. “It will be easy to prepare coaches as shutdown restrictions are being relaxed and more employees are supposed to report for work on Monday. Hence, a rake can be arranged quicker. If a request comes in the morning, a train can be arranged for departure by 3pm or 4pm,” he added. Since passenger services are not going to be operated till May 17, sparing a rake will be easy. “Bringing the workers from their camps, grouping them according to the destinations they want to go to, arranging food for them and other preparation will take some time. Trains can be readied by then,” said an official. Going by the number of guest workers stuck in camps and shelters run by the government, the city may need several trains to transport them. One train can carry 1,000 passengers or less because of social distancing norms. “Four passengers will be allowed in a coupe as middle berths are not to be occupied. Only one person is allowed to sit on the side seats because of social distancing requirements. Only 54 people will be allowed to travel in a coach.” As the guest workers have already been sent from Kerala by trains, railway officials are worried that guest workers in Tamil Nadu may throng the railway stations as it happened on March 25, demanding trains to take them home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-needs-6hrs-to-ready-trains-for-guest-workers-but-no-requests-from-govt-yet/articleshow/75524053.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: College classes too start moving online||KOCHI: As the lockdown has disrupted the academic schedule of college students who were preparing for university exams, the All Kerala Private College Teachers Association (AKPCTA) has started an online learning programme called ‘Learn in Lockdown’ for degree students doing B.A, B.Sc and B.Com. The programme uses the platform of Telegram messaging application by creating groups for each course. Teachers of various colleges under the four universities- Kerala, Kannur, Kozhikode and Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam - post learning materials including audio and video lessons. The initiative has become a success and nearly 1,000 teachers and 98,000 students throughout the state use the platform. Classes for 214 courses are currently taken online. “The Learn in Lockdown programme is a great relief for the students who were frustrated by the social isolation, especially when they have to face exams once the lockdown is lifted," said Sebastian Joseph, head of History department at UC College, Aluva, who is leading the history classes for students under MG University. "The lockdown has led to the loss of more than 50% of academic days in almost all universities and portions are pending in bulk especially for second-semester students. Students are making use of the interactive sessions offered by listening to the recorded lectures of faculties and seek clarification on difficult areas in the syllabus,” he added. As the application enables adding a large number of participants, separate groups have been created for each course. The students join by clicking on the links provided to them by college principals and teachers. Each group is monitored by course coordinators and resource faculties. After providing the lectures based on the syllabus, students are allowed to interact with the teachers by enabling the chat function in the group. “New members of the groups can view previous chats and lectures provided. Now we are planning to give classes to postgraduate students too and a detailed plan is under formulation. Also, the students of Sanksrit under Kerala University had requested to start classes for them and it is now on. Classes will be started for B.Ed students also,” said A S Sumesh, a faculty of MES College, Nedumkandam, a member of the working committee that coordinates the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/college-classes-too-start-moving-online/articleshow/75531213.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
May 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: College classes too start moving online||KOCHI: As the lockdown has disrupted the academic schedule of college students who were preparing for university exams, the All Kerala Private College Teachers Association (AKPCTA) has started an online learning programme called ‘Learn in Lockdown’ for degree students doing B.A, B.Sc and B.Com. The programme uses the platform of Telegram messaging application by creating groups for each course. Teachers of various colleges under the four universities- Kerala, Kannur, Kozhikode and Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam - post learning materials including audio and video lessons. The initiative has become a success and nearly 1,000 teachers and 98,000 students throughout the state use the platform. Classes for 214 courses are currently taken online. “The Learn in Lockdown programme is a great relief for the students who were frustrated by the social isolation, especially when they have to face exams once the lockdown is lifted," said Sebastian Joseph, head of History department at UC College, Aluva, who is leading the history classes for students under MG University. "The lockdown has led to the loss of more than 50% of academic days in almost all universities and portions are pending in bulk especially for second-semester students. Students are making use of the interactive sessions offered by listening to the recorded lectures of faculties and seek clarification on difficult areas in the syllabus,” he added. As the application enables adding a large number of participants, separate groups have been created for each course. The students join by clicking on the links provided to them by college principals and teachers. Each group is monitored by course coordinators and resource faculties. After providing the lectures based on the syllabus, students are allowed to interact with the teachers by enabling the chat function in the group. “New members of the groups can view previous chats and lectures provided. Now we are planning to give classes to postgraduate students too and a detailed plan is under formulation. Also, the students of Sanksrit under Kerala University had requested to start classes for them and it is now on. Classes will be started for B.Ed students also,” said A S Sumesh, a faculty of MES College, Nedumkandam, a member of the working committee that coordinates the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/college-classes-too-start-moving-online/articleshow/75531211.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Don’t prevent workers from returning home’||VIZIANAGARAM: The district police have warned of legal action against those preventing migrant workers returning to Vizianagaram from going to their respective homes. Speaking to mediapersons here on Friday, superintendent of police B Raja Kumari said, “All workers returning home have been screened for Covid-19 where they were working and here before being sent to quarantine centres.” The migrant workers are all being sent to various quarantine centres where they will stay for the prescribed period. The SP also stressed on the need for public discipline and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dont-prevent-workers-from-returning-home/articleshow/75522499.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||11 positive patients shifted to Covid hosps||Kolkata: Eleven patients who had tested positive for novel coronavirus at NRS Medical College and Hospital (NRSMCH) have been shifted to Covid-designated hospitals. The medicine ward and the gynaecology operating theatres where the patients were being treated have been sanitised. The hospital authorities traced the healthcare workers involved in the treatment of the patients at the medicine ward. Some of their swab samples will be sent for confirmatory test. “We have shifted 10 patients to MR Bangur Hospital while one patient has been sent to ID&BG Hospital for further treatment,” said Saibal Mukherjee of NRSMCH. Out of the 11 patients, seven were admitted in the gynaecology ward while one was admitted in the male medicine ward. The rest of the patients were being treated in the Covid isolation ward. The gynaecology and medicine patients too were shifted to the isolation ward later after they had developed symptoms. They were shifted to the Covid hospitals after their test reports came. “We have sanitized the whole gynaecology complex so that we can admit new patients. Such incident of patients turning positive is going to be part of the healthcare facilities for some time now. But we can’t stop treating other patents. We need to take precaution to minimise risks,” said Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11-positive-patients-shifted-to-covid-hosps/articleshow/75524031.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Stranded in Hubballi, Gujarat carpenters want to return home||Hubballi: A group of carpenters from Gujarat comes to Hubballi every year, earning livelihood by making and selling cricket bats for about seven months. They return to their native state during the rainy season. This has been the practice for the past 20 years for them. However, this year has been harsh on them due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The pandemic has hampered their business. Struggling to get food, these carpenters are seeking help from the authorities to go back to their native place. Nanakabhai Babubhai, 60, a resident of Khanjari in Kheda district, Gujarat, is one of the carpenters visiting Huballi for 20 years. He said that the fears over coronavirus affected their business before March, when the sales pick up. Every year, the carpenters from Gujarat stay in Hubballi from December to June and sell about 5,000 cricket bats, ranging from Rs 150 to Rs 300, in each shop. But this time, the makeshift shops in front of the KIMS Hospital lack enough customers. This year, 17 people came to Hubballi with raw material of over Rs 1 lakh for three shops, said Nanakabhai. “After the sudden lockdown, we found it very difficult to get food as shops were not open. In the beginning, a few people gave us rice and other items. Sometimes, police gave us readymade food and now we are purchasing essential items from a grocery shop on credit as we don’t have money right now with us,” said Nanakabhai, who brought his son and nephew to Hubballi this time. Nanakabhai said half of his family is in Gujarat where the condition is worsening. “I’m much concerned about my family there and want to go back to my village,” he said. Hubballi Urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal said the officials will visit provide necessary help to the carpenters. “If they wish to go back to their village, their names will be registered. Till that time, they will get food kit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stranded-in-hubballi-gujarat-carpenters-want-to-return-home/articleshow/75521821.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 4, 2020||Business||Infy top exec salaries rose 23% in FY20||Bengaluru: Salaries and other employee benefits to Infosys’s whole-time directors, executive officers and company secretary rose 23% to Rs 118 crore in 2019-20, compared to the year before. This includes compensation paid to its chairman Nandan Nilekani, CEO Salil Parekh, COO UB Pravin Rao, independent directors and other executive officers. Infosys said it has recorded employee stock compensation expense of Rs 56 crore and Rs 33 crore respectively towards key managerial personnel for the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years. Commission and other benefits to non-executive / independent directors stood at Rs 8 crore in the 2020 fiscal, same as in the previous one. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infy-top-exec-salaries-rose-23-in-fy20/articleshow/75524046.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Civic body starts survey of police quarters||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started special survey of police residential quarters in the city to ensure that there are no Covid-19 cases. This comes after a staffer of the rural police tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The NMC has started health check-ups of the families of police personnel residing in various quarters in the city. Some police personnel who resides in Nashik city are on duty in Malegaon and other affected areas. After six people tested postive in the city, the NMC sealed four more containment zones, including three in the Cidco division of the city — Savta Nagar, Uttam Nagar and Pathardi Phata — and one in Satpur colony. The six patients included a staffer of the rural police, who is a city resident and had been posted to Malegaon. He had given his throat swab sample for testing on April 26 and had come to Nashik by truck on April 28. He has been shifted to the Nashik civil hospital. As he has not been to his residence in Hirawadi Panchavati in the past two weeks, the NMC did not seal the area. This is the second incident that a staffer of the police department who is a resident of the city tested positive. Last month, a resident of Nashik Road, working in the police department in Mumbra tested positive.  “We have decided to conduct a survey in all the police quarters in the city. We have started a door-to-door survey in police quarters near old Central Bus Stand areas,” said NMC officials. Apart from the police personnel, two other Covid-19 patients had a travel history to Malegaon and Jalgaon. “NMC has taken serious cognizance of people coming to the city from outside despite police security. The NMC has written a letter to the police administration in this connection and has urged to ensure that people from affected areas do not enter the city,” said the NMC officials. Meanwhile, the health department of the NMC conducted a door-to-door survey in the four containment areas in the city. NMC has traced a total of 46 high-risk contacts from these four new containment areas. Their throat swab samples have been sent for testing. With the six new patients, the city’s overall Covid-19 cases have increased to16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-starts-survey-of-police-quarters/articleshow/75523393.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||15 medics among 43 home quarantined; 3 Chanda areas sealed||Chandrapur: Civic administration has sealed Krishna Nagar, adjoining Sanjay Nagar and Durgah ward localities after a resident of Krishna Nagar was found positive for Covid-19 on Saturday evening. Three members of the 50-year-old patient’s family have been put into isolation ward and their samples have been sent for testing.Total 28 members of six families from residential apartment in posh Shivaji Nagar area where the patient worked as security guard and 15 medics including 10 doctors who came in his contact during initial treatment have been put into home quarantine.Collector Kunal Khemnar issued a statement urging people not to panic and told none from the containment areas will be allowed outside except for medical emergencies.Sanjay Nagar and Durgah ward, both adjoining Krishna Nagar having population of over 10,000, have been declared as containment zone. Surrounding 7km area has been declared as buffer zone and health department will carry out screening in this area also to track people with symptoms of coronavirus infection.Civil surgeon Dr ND Rathod informed that different teams, comprising 40 employees of health department, have started house-to-house screening of people to detect Covid patients. Around 2,500 people were screened on Sunday. The process of contact tracing in the area is underway, he added.Entire area has been sanitized by spraying disinfectants.Dr Rathod claimed that the patient had visited GMCH complaining of chest pain and many doctors and nurses had come in contact with him during initial treatment. “We have asked 10 doctors, three staff nurses and two attendants to stay in home quarantine,” he said. Total 28 persons belonging to six families from an apartment where the patient worked as security guard have also been put into home quarantine, he said adding that swab samples of all these suspected contacts will be taken after six days.As per information furnished by the security guard, he was suffering from fever since April 23. The guard also claimed that he had not gone outside the district in the last 15 days. Authorities are trying to ascertain his claims and the source of infection. His condition is stable now. Meanwhile, district collector along with senior officers visited the containment area on Sunday morning. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar reviewed the situation in the evening. Photo captionKrishna Nagar and neighbouring areas in Chandrapur have been sealed and being sprayed with disinfectantsNBPhotos sent on WhatsApp group||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-medics-among-43-home-quarantined-3-chanda-areas-sealed/articleshow/75524058.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Residents unite to feed needy daily||HYDERABAD: K Srinivas Rao, a resident of Ayyappa society and Tollywood actor Venu Thottempudi are feeding around 300 to 500 migrant workers and the poor. “Every day we try to cover two to three areas across the city from Gachibowli to Jubilee Hills depending on the demand,” Rao told TOI. “Initially we started with a WhatsApp group and soon other friends in the city joined us. Everyday, someone or the other contribute to ensure that we are able continue this food distribution,” he added. The food is being prepared by Lakshmi Tiffin Centre located at the 100 metre road in Madhapur. It is delivered using a mini truck in coordination with Madhapur and Jubilee Hills police stations. “The food packets that we are distributing consist of either sambhar rice or chicken biryani or egg biryani. Apart from these items, buttermilk, banana, water bottle and boiled egg are also given to the needy,” Venu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-unite-to-feed-needy-daily/articleshow/75524462.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Chennai||More cops at check posts as many try to sneak out of city||Chennai: Police have increased strength at check posts on the outskirts of the city following reports that many people were trying to leave Chennai without valid vehicle passes or supporting documents. A check post at Vandalur now has a 30-member team headed by a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to ensure documents are checked faster and vehicles carrying essential items don’t wait for long in queues. On Saturday, many vehicles tried to get out of the city despite not having passes citing personal reasons; and some even had false documents, said a senior police officer from Chengelpet district. “On an average, 10-15 such vehicles were caught and sent back to Chennai,” he added. This happened soon after news about lockdown extension was out. Chennai’s Covid-19 figures are on the rise and this could have prompted such attempt, say officers at the check post. Officials of Greater Chennai Corporation, authorised to issue vehicle passes for inter-district movement for death, pre-fixed marriages or medical conditions, however, did not witness any sudden rise in number of applications. On Saturday, 1,357 people applied for leaving Chennai, 292 were approved and the rest rejected, according to official data. This was close to the figures reported every day since the lockdown began on March 24. Overall, nearly 36,000 applied to leave Chennai during the lockdown period (till May 2) and over two-third of applications were rejected. Most of the rejections were repeated claims and the applicants didn’t have proper ID cards, supporting documents or a valid reason authorised by the government, to leave Chennai, said a senior corporation official. To a question on cross-checking of supporting documents submitted by applicants, the official said, “Only a couple of cases have eluded our screening and they were caught at police check posts in other districts. So over 99%, it has gone smooth”. From Monday, all vehicle e-passes will be processed by the corporation through http://tnepass.tnega.org/, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-cops-at-check-posts-as-many-try-to-sneak-out-of-city/articleshow/75524062.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||No jobs, no money to take care of families; migrants who returned to U’khand worry for their survival||Nainital: On March 22, Sundar Singh left Gurugram and came to Kachhi, a remote village in Bhikiyasain block of Almora district. He felt lucky that he had escaped the plight of thousands of others who were walking to their villages. But almost a month-and-a-half into the nationwide lockdown, he is plagued by worry as the few thousand rupees that he was carrying has run out. Singh who worked as an electrician is living with his parents and five other family members in the village. Speaking to TOI, he said that his family owns a small patch of land but the family has given up agriculture because of frequent animal attacks. "I used to earn Rs 9,000 each month while my elder brother would also send around Rs 15,000. But for the past two months I have had no income and the savings are also running out," he said, adding that his elder brother is still stuck in Delhi. Like Sundar Singh, thousands of others are facing similar challenges. While some of them haven’t paid their rents for months, others are scrambling to get enough money to buy seeds for the next crop and yet many are facing shortage of food. Mayank Kumar, 24, lived in Delhi’s Dakshinpuri area and worked as a daily wager. The spread of the virus rendered him unemployed leaving him with no option but to come back to his village in Chaukhutiya block. “I would get Rs 300 each day and lived with my sister and her family. However, as the outbreak became severe, I couldn’t find any work. I thought that the situation will be normal in a few days but it’s been over 40 days and I have no money left. The only source of income for my family now is a small patch of land which we have here," he told TOI. Government estimates suggests that more than 59,000 migrants have returned to their villages so far. Most of those who have come back worked as daily wagers or as labourers in cities such as Delhi, Chandigarh and Dehradun. SS Negi, vice-chairman of the state migration commission, said that the commission has collected data from various districts that show that most of the migrants have come back to Almora and Pauri Garhwal districts. “Most of these people have lost their only source of income. Even those family members who are still in big cities have stopped sending remittances which is why, the average family income has taken a hit. Moreover, most of them can’t even rely on agriculture since the average land ownership is also very low," Negi said. He added that while this poses a challenge, it is also an opportunity for the government to introduce schemes and release special packages so that most of the people who have returned continue to stay on in their villages. "Migration out of hills has been a major issue for the state. The economic catastrophe caused by the coronavirus is an opportunity for us if we can provide employment to the people since it is unlikely that the major cities will open up any time soon," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-jobs-no-money-to-take-care-of-families-migrants-who-returned-to-ukhand-worry-for-their-survival/articleshow/75522501.cms||Prashant Jha
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||2 deaths, 15 +ve cases in Akola on Sunday||Nagpur: Sunday was a disastrous day for Akola when 15 positive cases of Covid-19, including two deaths, were reported in a day. As most of the cases are from different localities in the municipal corporation limits, the risk of community spread is now high. Considering this, the district collector has announced a complete lockdown in Akola for the next 2 days. Barring Akola, Sunday was a day of relief for all other parts of Vidarbha. Nagpur and Yavatmal recorded only one new case each, and Amravati 2. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Vidarbha reached 380, including 94 recovered, 18 deaths and 1 suicide. With four patients recovered and discharged from Nagpur, the total number of discharged patients touched 50. Nagpur also witnessed a second case of Covid-19 positive mother delivering a baby on Sunday. A 23-yr-old woman admitted in GMCH delivered a healthy baby boy on Sunday. Both mother and baby are doing well. Akola has witnessed an unusual spurt in Covid-19 cases. Health officials informed that 5 staffers of a private hospital tested positive on Saturday. They are residents of five different localities. They had treated a woman who died of Covid-19 on April 30. District collector Jitendra Papalkar told TOI that the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is a major cause of concern. “We have no option but to implement strict curfew. Just on Sunday, we have received 15 new confirmed positive cases. The number of total cases has reached 55 from yesterday’s 40,” he said. Yavatmal reported a positive case late on Sunday night. Out of 39 reports received on Sunday, only 1 was positive. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal to 91, with 81 being active. On Monday, a central government team is visiting Yavatmal for a review. District collector MD Singh has reiterated his appeal to the public to remain at home and if at all they step out maintain social distancing strictly. On the probable date of setting up of the proposed VRDL in the GMC Yavatmal, Singh said he is in touch with Pune’s Haffkine Institute for the procurement of new equipment required for the laboratory. He has also contacted an overseas company. “As soon as we get the machineries, we will start the lab,” he added. The administration in Chandrapur is on toes now after finding one positive case. Civic administration has sealed the Krishna Nagar, Sanjay Nagar and Durgah ward localities after a person from Krishna Nagar was found positive 19 on Saturday evening. Three members of the 50-year-old patient’s family have been put into isolation ward and their samples have been sent for a test. In Buldhana, district collector Suman Rawat Chandra announced that no relaxation will be given in lockdown. “Some people are circulating a pre-lockdown video claiming that it has been lifted in Buldhana. Strict action will be taken against them for spreading misinformation and misrepresentation of facts,” she said in a video message issued on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-deaths-15-ve-cases-in-akola-on-sunday/articleshow/75524474.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Thiruvanmiyur market shut after vendor tests positive||CHENNAI: The city corporation shut down the Thiruvanmiyur fruit and vegetable market immediately after a vendor tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. On Sunday, a special camp was held where swab samples from 100 vendors were collected. Results will be out tomorrow (Monday), senior officials said. The market falls under the Adyar zone (zone 13) of the civic body, which has registered 27 cases as on Sunday morning according to data published by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). The vendor who tested positive on Sunday is a 63-year-old resident of Indira Nagar and was tested on Friday, sources said. He is now safe and samples of his family members have also been taken. “He used to travel to Koyambedu to purchase vegetables from the wholesale market. It is suspected that he may have got the infection there,” a corporation official said. Koyambedu market cluster is proving to be the latest source of infection across the city and state, with more than 100 positive cases recorded so far. Officials said they will try to reopen Thiruvanmiyur market by Wednesday. Vendors will also be decentralised and moved to five different locations in the vicinity to facilitate social distancing, an official said. Before its closure on Sunday, the market was spread across the North and East Mada streets in Thiruvanmiyur. A month ago, shops were set up in the parking space of the market as well. Photos of crowding at the market 10 days ago, at a time when intense containment measures were being implemented by GCC, shocked residents across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thiruvanmiyur-market-shut-after-vendor-tests-positive/articleshow/75524059.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 4, 2020||Nashik||‘Gram Dakshata’ to keep vigil on people coming to Nandurbar||Nashik: The Nandurbar district collector has formed ‘Gram Dakshata’ committee to keep watch on the movement of people coming into the village from neighbouring state or districts. The government has recently allowed people stuck in different parts of the states and districts to return their respective homes. All of them would be kept in a village quarantine facility for a period of 14 days. “However there are people who are taking the routes through the jungles and odd routes during day and night and crossing the border which cannot be manned completely. Hence we have formed the Gram Dakshata Samiti that will keep a watch of all such people coming home and ensuring they are taken to nearest health centres for their tests,” collector Nandurbar Rajendra Bharud said. The Samiti consists of Gram Sevak, Police Patil and Sarpanch who have been given the responsibility of keeping a close watch on all the people moving inside the village in any home and ensuring that they are housed in the local school before their medical check-ups. “The Committees have been made responsible to ensure they pick up people who come into the villages and notify the tahsildar and the taluka medical officer who will further initiate health checkup system for the people,” another senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gram-dakshata-to-keep-vigil-on-people-coming-to-nandurbar/articleshow/75523426.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar police collects Rs 42.34 lakh fine during lockdown||RUDRAPUR: The Udham Singh Nagar police have booked as many as 4,617 people for reportedly violating the nationwide lockdown in the past 40 days and a fine of Rs 42.34 lakh was collected from the offenders, superintendent of police (SP), crime Devendra Peencha said. A total of 529 cases have also been registered against the violators. According to the SP, "Till May 3, 529 cases have been registered and 4617 people have been booked for violation of lockdown orders. Most of them were booked under section 41 and 81 of Police Act, while action has been initiated against many others under the Epidemic Diseases Act." "The police department and the City Patrol Unit have challaned 6272 vehicles while 188 vehicles were impounded during the lockdown period," Peencha added. He said that strict action will be taken against those who continue to violate restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-police-collects-rs-42-34-lakh-fine-during-lockdown/articleshow/75523418.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cyclone to hit Andhra Pradesh? IMD on vigil||VISAKHAPATNAM: A cyclone is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal along the south India coast this week, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). If the present conditions continue for next three days, and no change of the present track of the system, then the cyclone may hit AP. IMD director for Amaravati centre S Stella said IMD has not issued any cyclone warning to the Andhra Pradesh coast as on Sunday. IMD is monitoring the track and features of the system, which was traced as low pressure on Sunday. “There is a low pressure over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. It will take next few days to reach its next stages like the cyclone,” Stella told TOI. Stella said there are certain features like sea surface temperature, winds pattern or winds direction the present well-marked low pressure system is supposed to face to reach the next stages like depression, deep depression and then cyclone. “The system is slowly moving. Chances are there for the formation of cyclone, but it is too early to predict its track like whether it is moving towards Andhra coast or take a recurve towards Bangladesh,” Stella added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cyclone-to-hit-ap-met-dept-on-vigil/articleshow/75522510.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||IAF chopper showers 400 kg petals on AIIMS, Hamidia & Chirayu hosps||Bhopal: On the hot Sunday morning, as people were settling down for the day’s schedule, there was a sudden roar in the city and as curious people came out and looked up they found an IAF helicopter flanked by two C-130 aircraft dotting the city skyline. The chopper showered floral petals on hospitals to acknowledge the untiring efforts of the warriors battling against Coronavirus. The chopper and transport aircraft made a quick descend as they passed over AIIMS Bhopal, Hamidia hospital and Chirayu medical college and showered petals on the team of doctors, paramedics, nurses, sanitation staff and others leading the fight against COVID-19. On the ground, the chopper was welcomed with claps and waiving of hands by the health and other personnel. About 400 kg sanitised rose petals were dropped over AIIMS, Bhopal and Chirayu hospital. Station Commander, Air Force Station Bhopal, Group Captain Shreepad Tokekar, VM, coordinated the operation. The MI –17 helicopter flew over the two hospitals between 10 am and 10.30 am and showered flower petals, Group Captain Tokekar told TOI. He added that the MI 17 took-off from Nagpur airport around 8 am and it was refuelled at Bhopal airport around 9 am. Liasoning officer, Wing Commander Abhishek Yadav said helicopter made three rounds of Chirayu hospital and two rounds of AIIMS for showering petals. Crew members of MI 17 were Sqn Ldr Abhinav Sankhla (Captain), Fg Offr Rohit Dadarwal (Co-pilot), Sgt Sumit Singh (Flt Engr), Sgt Satnam Singh (Flt Gun), Sgt Rajpurohit (Ground Crew in charge), LAC Rahul Chauhan and Cpl Sagar Deshmukh. People mostly health workers clad in personal protecting equipment and sky blue coloured aprons, following physical distancing norms from below cheered and clapped looking at the sky in reciprocation. At Chirayu hospital’s campus, an Army band played tunes. Health workers, doctors and patients lined in rows and clapped and thanked as petals were showered on them. Police and revenue officials too clapped in gratitude to the health workers at the two hospitals here. Wing commander Yadav said, “Usually people thank the armed forces, but this time we paid our gratitude to the people on the frontline against COVID -19 fight.” He thanked Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode and Bhopal airport director Anil Vikram for their support. The IAF helicopter went returned to its base at noon after successfully completing its operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/iaf-chopper-showers-400-kg-petals-on-aiims-hamidia-chirayu-hosps/articleshow/75524460.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 4, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown find: Lila Majumdar’s rare works||KOLKATA: Rare, unpublished writings of Lila Majumdar have tumbled out during the Ashutosh College student Soumyakanti Dutta’s lockdown clean up in the city. Dutta, a member of ‘Sandesh’ and ‘Bichitrapatra’ magazines, was given the responsibility to take care of Majumdar’s collection by her son Ranjan when they took up the task of making a documentary on the author. Ranjan’s old age and health conditions did not allow him to take care of his mother’s vast treasure trove. The treasures found by Dutta at his Paikpara residence in the past one week include Bengali translation of Shakespeare’s some plays, English translation of Abanindranath Tagore’s lecture on Indian art and painting -‘Bageshwari Shilpoprobondhaboli’, an unpublished biography of Mother Teresa in English. The priceless memorabilia includes Deshikottama award, letters from Rabindranath Tagore, Premendra Mitra, Ashapurna Devi, Nandalal Basu, water colour paintings and embroideries by Lila Majumdar, original manuscripts, essays in English and Bengali on society and status of women and many negatives of unseen photos. “I shifted a lot of stuff from Lila Majumdar’s house to mine at Paikpara a few months ago. The lockdown gave me adequate time to go through the matters extensively and find what important documents had been lying unattended. I discovered the priceless writings for book lovers and researchers during the clean-up,” said Dutta. The Ashutosh college student found 10 exercise books comprising translation of Abanindranath Tagore’s ‘Bageshwari Shilpoprobandhoboli’ translated by Majumdar into English along with Bengali translation of Shakespeare’s Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth and Julius Caesar. The unpublished biography of Mother Teresa by her was also discovered during the clean-up. Author Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay said, “It is like discovering a treasure trove all of a sudden. All these rare works will enrich our literature, if restored properly.” Srilata Banerjee, grand daughter of Majumdar, said, “Amid the gloom of lockdown, the news of Didibhai’s unpublished and little-known works being discovered is a ray of sun shine.” She thanked Dutta and his other teammates Souradeep Banerjee, Ayan Chatterjee for taking up the huge task of archiving and publishing Majumdar’s rare works. The famous and rare magazines like Probashi, Bharatbarsha, Mukul, Rangmashal’s edition on Sukumar Ray have been retrieved. According to Dutta, these editions date back to 1920s and 1930s. The water colour paintings, mostly natural landscape, drawn by Majumdar, date back to1940s and 50s. Following the advice of Sandip Ray, film director, Dutta are digitizing Majumdar’s unpublished writings, including the ones on her nephew Satyajit Ray on the occasion of his birth centenary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-find-lila-majumdars-rare-works/articleshow/75524054.cms||Dipawali Mitra
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||On migrant workers’ return, ruckus in village||Dehradun: A few villagers of Pokhal village in Pauri Garhwal created a ruckus when some migrant workers who were coming back from Dehradun, returned to the village. According to sources, the villagers suspected the returnees to be Covid carriers and picked a fight with the bus staff. The bus staff threatened to call police, and a heated argument ensued. The area falls under the jurisdiction of revenue police and soon thereafter, the local tehsildar and other officials reached the spot. Providing details about the matter, SSP (Pauri Garhwal) Dalip Singh Kunwar said, “Eight people have been named in the FIR registered under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Act.” Doon-based activist Udit Ghildiyal said he was not surprised at the reaction of villagers. “Villagers think migrant workers will spread the infection in the hills which have been relatively safe from the outbreak of the disease. Bringing the over one lakh migrants back during the lockdown and getting them tested, without any friction with locals, is going to be a tricky task for the state government,” said Ghildiyal. Meanwhile, Harish Negi, a migrant worker who returned to his village in Rudraprayag district from Delhi recently, told TOI, “In my village, people are asking me and my family to remain inside the house and not venture outside. All of us are observing home quarantine for 14 days so that no one has any problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/on-migrant-workers-return-ruckus-in-village/articleshow/75522509.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 4, 2020||India||16 more Shramik trains carry migrants workers, students, tourists back home||NEW DELHI: At least 16 Shramik Special trains departed from different stations on Sunday including 10 heading to Bihar transporting stranded migrant workers, students and tourists. Sources said nearly three dozen such trains were pressed in to service since special train operations started on Friday and Indian Railways is ready to run over 300 such trains to meet the demand. According to details obtained from different zones, two trains each from Kota in Rajasthan to Barauni in Bihar and Bengaluru to Danapur (Bihar) started on Sunday. Five other trains from different stations in Kerala to Barauni, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Katihar and Darbhanga were also flagged off. Three trains carrying nearly 3,600 Odia migrants started from Surat to Jagannathpur in Ganjam district and another train from Chikbanavara station in Bengaluru started its journey to Khurdha Road near Bhubaneswar. One train from Nagpur to Lucknow also started with nearly 1,200 passengers during the day. While the exact details of trains scheduled for Monday are not known, TOI learnt that one train from Alappuzha in Kerala to Katihar and two trains destined for West Bengal will start. Another five Shramik Special trains will run from Surat on Monday - three to Odisha and one each to Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Patna in Bihar. In a tweet on Sunday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “As a part of our promise to bring back citizens of Bengal stranded in other states, two special trains from Ajmer and Kerala would leave tomorrow for West Bengal with more than 2,500 migrant labourers, students & patients. Everyone coming in to be screened as per protocols.” According to railway ministry protocol, the originating state will indicate the exact number of passengers travelling in a train and it should be around 1,200 or at least 90% of the train’s capacity. The detailed protocol also specifies how the state authorities will bring the identified passengers to the originating station and provide food, mask and sanitiser to the passengers boarding trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/16-more-shramik-trains-carry-migrants-workers-students-tourists-back-home/articleshow/75524813.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Nine-month-old baby among 28 new cases in Malegaon||NASHIK: A nine month-baby and a doctor were among the 28 new coronavirus patients who tested positive in Malegaon on Sunday. The total numbers of patients in Malegaon town thus breached the 300-mark to reach 325 — doubling in just six days — even as the district’s count touched 361. The individuals who had tested positive include a State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawan, a staffer from the office of additional superintendent of police and a doctor involved in the surveillance of immunization process. Moreover, a doctor from Dabhadi also has tested positive for the infection. Seven fresh cases were recorded in the Jalgaon district on Sunday while one person succumbed taking the death toll there to 13. The number of cases in the district today rose from five on April 24 to 52 numbers on May 3. The Covid-19 patients confirmed on Sunday include a 40-year-old man from Ajintha Chowk, a 65-year-old man from Adawad in Chopda, two persons from Pachora and three from Amalner taluka. The person from Ajintha died hours before his swab test reports came in. Meanwhile, to provide services to non-Covid patients in Malegaon, at a time when private medical practitioners are yet to open their establishments, the Bhartiya Jain Sanghatana has decided to deploy 11 mobile vans to treat such patients in the town. “Launched under the concept ‘Doctor At Your Doorstep’, the vans will boost the healthcare system in Malegaon, which is the need of the hour,” Maharashtra agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said. The vans will move across the town and render services to those in need. Mayor Tahera Sheikh, divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, collector Suraj Mandhare, Nashik range inspector-general of police Cherring Dorje, superintendent of police (rural) Arti Singh, district surgeon Suresh Jagdale, and others were present. “These are exclusively for non-Covid patients. Any serious case will be referred from these vans directly to the sub-civil hospital that has been reserved for non-Covid patients. At the same time, if there are patients with the symptoms of Covid-19, they will be directed to Covid Care Centres for further tests,” Mane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nine-month-old-baby-among-28-new-cases-in-malegaon/articleshow/75523435.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 4, 2020||Dehradun||‘The pandemic has made me realise the importance of my work as a nurse’||Dehradun: Sunita Arthur, sister-in-charge of the coronavirus isolation ward at Doon Hospital, feels that for the first time in her 16-year-long career, the pandemic has made her realise the importance of her work as a nurse. Arthur, who is in her forties, says that this is the most challenged she has ever been at work, as not only does she have to care for her patients, but also protect herself from the highly contagious virus. For the last two months, she has been following a strict 30-minute-long drill of sanitising herself and putting on her Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kit. Once inside the ward, she has to be careful about maintaining a safe distance from the patients. The same rigorous process of sanitisation has to be repeated while exiting the ward. “The nursing staff has to follow a strict protocol while attending to the patients. I thoroughly sanitise myself with a soap kept outside the house before I come in contact with my family. It takes another 30 minutes,” she said. Arthur lives at the Nurses Colony in Dehradun, with her husband, who is part of the support staff at Himalayan Institute of Medical Sciences and her 17-year-old daughter who studies in class 12. “I tell my husband and daughter about my day when I get home. They are worried about the risk my job involves, but are supportive. I sent my mother-in-law to a relative’s place as a preventive measure,” she said. In spite of the challenges, Arthur takes pride in her job. “I have spent over a decade in this profession, serving patients, but the current crisis has made me take all the more pride in my work. I feel like a soldier serving the nation in the time of a health emergency.” Arthur added that while administering medication and recording the condition of patients is routine procedure, she now has a new challenge, which is keeping the infected persons calm. “We have to take care of people who are not mentally prepared to stay at these wards and face acute anxieties. We spend most of our time easing their stress and helping them recover,” she said. Incidentally, Arthur is following in the footsteps of her mother and older sister, who also chose to be nurses. “I find a lot of peace in serving people. I get several calls from my relatives, who ask me about my well being and encourage me to keep doing my job. It keeps me going and I will continue to serve the country until it is free of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/the-pandemic-has-made-me-realise-the-importance-of-my-work-as-a-nurse/articleshow/75520984.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Schools deeper in financial hole as parents refuse to pay||Nagpur: Private unaided schools in district say a cumulatively crores of rupees are pending as fees because many parents are citing government advisories and refusing to pay up. TOI on Sunday had reported about the government’s plan to issue guidelines advising schools not to increase fee for the new session.A CBSE school principal said, “The issue is first about pending fee which is not being paid by many parents. My school is owed over Rs 50 lakh and this is a very small amount if you compare with others who charge very high fees and are located in city limits.”Another school trustee said not increasing the fee could not be a solution to the current crisis. “In district, almost Rs 10 crore must be the pending as fee for all schools cumulatively. Parents just refuse to pay up and say there is government order. But we have online payment facility for which parents don’t have to venture out. We are also giving them monthly instalment facility,” said the trustee.Rajendra Dayma, president of state level Independent English Schools Association (IESA) said the pending fee logjam was a huge issue. “Currently across Maharashtra we are witnessing a deficit of almost 30% in receipts. Can you imagine managing with just 70% of income? Which costs will you cut when everything is essential,” asked Dayma.He added the government had faltered in a big way. “It’s a populist decision to ask schools to refrain from collecting fee. This has spelt doom for all stakeholders and unfortunately even those parents who can pay, are now refusing to,” said Dayma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-deeper-in-financial-hole-as-parents-refuse-to-pay/articleshow/75524067.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 4, 2020||Business||Goldman, Capg in no hurry to return to offices||Bengaluru: Tech firms are preparing their workplaces and employees to return to office. They will do it in a staggered manner, and with new guidelines in place. Goldman Sachs, which has 6,000 employees in its Bengaluru facility, said some of its safety measures include thermal screening, providing masks and maintaining social distancing of 9 feet at the workplace. Gunjan Samtani, head of Goldman Sachs Services in India, said the government recommends social distancing of 6 feet, but the firm is being conservative and providing more. “Other measures include less than 50% occupancy in company provided transport, packed meals for all employees working in the office since our cafeteria will not be operational, no face-to-face meetings and only virtual/ telephone interactions. Our health centre will actively connect with all staff to review risk factors and minimise exposure to the disease as far as possible,” he said. Some sources close to the company told TOI that the company has even given employees working in critical functions a $300 allowance to beef up their home internet infrastructure. Last week, Wipro chairman Rishad Premji tweeted that 120 of their employees in Kochi returned to work and were following social distancing measures including foot pedal-based hands-free sanitiser, sensor-based faucets, and signs inside the elevator for social distancing. Hexaware CEO R Srikrishna said they will operate with 50% staffers in office till a vaccine is found. Sudhir Tiwari and Sameer Soman, managing directors for ThoughtWorks in India, said all their projects are well equipped to work from home, “so we don’t anticipate this (those returning to office) to be more than 5% of the office strength (initially).” Over a period of time, they plan to increase it to 25%. Venkat Neelakantan, VP in Capgemini, said 95% of its client billable staff is working from home now, and they don’t plan to have more than 10% of employees to be in office initially, when the lockdown is lifted. Over the next 3-4 weeks, they plan to increase it to 30%. “We will slowly increase this number basis the guidelines and if there is a need for employees to be in office,” he said. Capgemini has 1.2 lakh employees in India. Microsoft and JPMorgan said they are monitoring the situation, and will take steps based on government guidelines and what’s best for their employees’ well-being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-capg-in-no-hurry-to-return-to-offices/articleshow/75524064.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Forces salute frontline Covid warriors||Kochi/T’puram: Expressing solidarity with state’s health department and honouring Covid-19 frontline warriors in the region, Southern Naval Command (SNC) of Indian Navy undertook thanksgiving gestures such as naval officers visiting health workers, flypast of aircraft and steampast of naval ships at Kochi on Sunday in accordance with the directive of the chief of defence staff (CDS). In Thiruvananthapuram, Indian Air Force and Coast Guard also conducted activities on Sunday to honour the frontline workers. Indian Coast Guard illuminated its ships at Shanghumukham area on Saturday and Sunday. Indian Air Force under the aegis of Southern Air Command showered flower petals over Government Medical College Hospital and General Hospital from Sarang helicopter. Commodore N Anil Joseph, station commander Kochi naval area, Commodore Arti Sarin, command medical officer and Commodore G K Dutta, chief staff officer (personal & administration) visited Ernakulam General Hospital and honoured the doctors, nurses, paramedics, police personnel, firemen, sanitation workers and other frontline workers there. The officers conveyed the appreciation on behalf of the Indian Navy and applauded their efforts in successfully treating the Covid-19 patients and also thanked them for their efforts in maintaining Ernakulam as a ‘green zone’. The hospital was selected as a representative for all medical fraternity, health workers and all agencies of the state involved in the fight against Covid-19. Dr Anita, GH superintendent, Dr Kuttapan, district medical officer, Dr Ganesh Mohan and Dr Geetha of Kalamassery Medical College, Dr Sreedevi, district health officer and Dr Shyamini, port health officer and others at general hospital, Ernakulam, were also present. As part of the thanksgiving gesture, Chetak helicopters of the Navy showered flower petals on the district hospital. Subsequently, seven aircraft flypast consisting of two Dornier aircrafts, a SeaKing helicopter, two advanced light helicopter (ALH) and two Chetak helicopters of Indian Navy was conducted over Marine Drive. This was immediately followed by steampast by seven fast interceptor crafts of the Navy, in the channel, displaying a banner “India thanks corona warriors”. Rajendra Maidan, Ernakulam, was open to the public for a limited time adhering to social distancing protocol to witness these activities and show their support. Earlier in the day, the SNC band played some famous numbers on a warship berthed opposite the Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) and near the Vikrant-Venduruthy bridge, epochal landmarks of Kochi. The ships of SNC, anchored in the centre of the Ernakulam channel, undertook the traditional ceremonial illumination, along with the firing of green flares and sounding of siren, in the evening, showcasing Indian Navy’s solidarity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forces-salute-frontline-covid-warriors/articleshow/75523469.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Only 2 of 55 swabs +ve, tests at Amt Covid lab from today||Amravati: After seeing an alarming spurt in the number of Covid positive cases in the last three days, the administration as well as citizens heaved some sigh of relief on Sunday as only two of the 55 swab test reports reaching here turned out to be positive, taking the total number of cases to 55.Collector Shailesh Naval, who had on Saturday exhorted people to observe 14-day home quarantine and lauded Hathipura residents for successfully breaking the novel coronavirus chain by strictly following the government instructions, was a relieved man on Sunday. “We received 55 swab reports from the lab and barring two, all other tested negative,” he said.Naval said both the positive cases are women aged 62 and 25 from Kholapuri Gate and Taj Nagar areas, respectively.“Both were institutionally quarantined at Covid Hospital as contacts of previously positive cases from their area and now they have been shifted to Covid-19 ward for treatment,” he said.With today’s one case, the number of Covid cases coming from Kholapuri Gate has entered double digits at 10 — the highest from a single locality. Taj Nagar too increased its tally to seven, the second highest.From March last to date, the health administration has tested 1,529 swabs and 55 of them have tested positive so far, while 1,077 negative. “We are still awaiting reports on 388 samples,” an official said.This wait is likely to get curtailed as the lab at Amravati University is all set to start testing samples from Monday. The AU lab is expected to test 48 reports each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-2-of-55-swabs-ve-tests-at-amt-covid-lab-from-today/articleshow/75524066.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Rumour sends guest workers rushing to cops for help to return home||Chennai: Lack of proper communication with stranded guest workers on sending them to their native places led to several people thronging two police stations in the city on Sunday, following rumours that the law enforcers would help them get back home.  Confusion prevailed as many workers thronged Pallikaranai and Ambattur Estate police stations with self-declaration forms and photocopies of their Aadhaar hoping that would facilitate their departure. The police personnel, clueless about the situation, had to accept the forms. At least 500 workers from Villivakkam, Ayanavaram and Ambattur reached the Ambattur Estate police station and submitted petitions urging officers to send them home safely. Police had to bring in Hindi-speaking personnel to explain to the workers that there was a mix-up. “We had asked guest workers in Ambattur Estate limits to submit their details for our own verification. They called up their friends and relatives from other parts of the city thinking this was to send them home and this led to the confusion,” said a senior jurisdictional police officer.  More than 40 workers turned up at the Pallikaranai station. “We had no idea why they came. They were misinformed by a few fellow workers,” said Pallikaranai inspector Azhagu. The government had appointed senior IAS officer Atulya Misra as state nodal officer to assist guest workers, pilgrims and students stranded within Tamil Nadu and TN people stranded outside the state. The government had also appointed senior police officers to handle the needs of guest workers. However, none of the officials seems to have reached out to the workers on the matter. “No one has informed us about when we will be sent back home,” said a worker at the Pallikaranai station.  The workers TOI spoke to said they were unaware of the state government’s self-reporting portal for those stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rumour-sends-guest-workers-rushing-to-cops-for-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75524068.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Hubballi railway workshop resumes work today||MYSURU: The railway workshop in Hubballi has been granted permission to resume work on Monday. Neeraj Jain, chief workshop manager, railway workshop, Hubballli, said employees will work in two shifts -- 6am-12.30pm and 1.30pm-8pm – as instructed by the headquarters. There are nearly 3,000 employees in the Hubballi workshop. Meanwhile, the Central Railway Workshop at Ashokapuram in Mysuru is awaiting permission from the district administration to resume work. It plans to resume work, adhering to the safety and social distancing norms related to Covid-19. The employees will be divided into four groups, making them work in two shifts: 6am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 8pm. The workshop, which has more than 1,500 employees, usually operates in one shift. The authorities here expect to resume operation with 800 employees as the staff with children aged below 5, diabetics, those with hypertension and workers residing in sealed areas will be exempted from work. P Srinivasu, chief workshop manager, Central Railway Workshop, South Western Railway, said all precautionary measures, including social distancing, will be kept in mind when the work resumes. “Employees will be allowed only after thermal screening and those with symptoms will be sent to the railway hospital where we have isolation wards,” he said. Srinivasu said at any point of time, 25% of the total strength will be working in each shift. “There will be no canteen. Instead, we have decided to provide packed food to all our employees. The headquarters has also given the same instruction to the Hubballi and Bengaluru workshops,” he said. The main work of Central Railway Workshop is periodical overhauling of coaches. For the past few years, it has also been fitting bio-toilets to existing coaches. The Central Railway Workshop had converted 96 train coaches into hospital isolation units and made masks for its employees and staff of other railway departments in the Mysuru division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hubballi-rly-workshop-resumes-work-today/articleshow/75522514.cms||R Uday Kumar
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi railway workshop resumes work today||MYSURU: The railway workshop in Hubballi has been granted permission to resume work on Monday. Neeraj Jain, chief workshop manager, railway workshop, Hubballli, said employees will work in two shifts -- 6am-12.30pm and 1.30pm-8pm – as instructed by the headquarters. There are nearly 3,000 employees in the Hubballi workshop. Meanwhile, the Central Railway Workshop at Ashokapuram in Mysuru is awaiting permission from the district administration to resume work. It plans to resume work, adhering to the safety and social distancing norms related to Covid-19. The employees will be divided into four groups, making them work in two shifts: 6am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 8pm. The workshop, which has more than 1,500 employees, usually operates in one shift. The authorities here expect to resume operation with 800 employees as the staff with children aged below 5, diabetics, those with hypertension and workers residing in sealed areas will be exempted from work. P Srinivasu, chief workshop manager, Central Railway Workshop, South Western Railway, said all precautionary measures, including social distancing, will be kept in mind when the work resumes. “Employees will be allowed only after thermal screening and those with symptoms will be sent to the railway hospital where we have isolation wards,” he said. Srinivasu said at any point of time, 25% of the total strength will be working in each shift. “There will be no canteen. Instead, we have decided to provide packed food to all our employees. The headquarters has also given the same instruction to the Hubballi and Bengaluru workshops,” he said. The main work of Central Railway Workshop is periodical overhauling of coaches. For the past few years, it has also been fitting bio-toilets to existing coaches. The Central Railway Workshop had converted 96 train coaches into hospital isolation units and made masks for its employees and staff of other railway departments in the Mysuru division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-rly-workshop-resumes-work-today/articleshow/75530603.cms||R Uday Kumar
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Indora Maidan on verge of destruction ‘in absence of custodian’||Nagpur: Biggest among all playgrounds in North Nagpur, Indora Maidan is on the verge of destruction due to rampant encroachment and digging activities done for programmes and exhibitions. Shockingly, there is no custodian for this sprawling playground having an area of around 20 acres, if concerned persons are to be believed. When TOI last visited the playground, it was found that few traders had stored construction material on some part. The playground’s surface was damaged due to entry of trucks loaded with construction material. Huge quantity of debris and garbage was lying in many parts. Surface of remaining area was totally undulated. Some construction has been done in one corner. Pigs and cattle roaming on the playground has become a regular sight. Founder of Slum Soccer Vijay Barse, who had conducted two tournaments few years ago, told TOI that they used to also run a women’s football club on this playground. “Some traders who have encroached the playground do not allow sports activities. It is unfortunate that the playground is not being looked after by government machineries,” he said. Barse said that he had raised the issue with revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat during the last winter session of state legislature. “I will pursue the matter and not allow the playground to vanish,” he said. “Indora maidan can be developed as a state-of-the-art playground due to the vast area and being close to Kamptee road. It can be a boon for North Nagpur sportsperson and people as very few playgrounds are situated in this part of the city,” he said. According to corporator Sandip Sahare, one of the event organizers had demolished part of compound wall for bringing exhibition infrastructure. “It is a playground and under jurisdiction of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). I had many a time lodged complaints with NMC, but to no avail,” he said. An NMC official told TOI that it is open space of Bezonbagh Society and not handed over to the NMC by collector’s office. “Therefore, we are not responsible for it,” he said. An official from collector’s office said, “NMC had sanctioned layout of Bezonbagh Society. It is the responsibility of NMC to take over the open space before releasing plots. NMC should at least take it over now and preserve it,” he said. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had sanctioned funds for construction of compound wall around the playground some years ago. The work was done by the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). Madhukar Patil from Bezonbagh Society said, “Society is owner of the land having khasra no. 97/1 and 101/2. It is not an open space of the layout, so not a playground. It is an open land given to the society in 1970s. But there is confusion, which should be resolved by the government. Society should be given the land for playground purpose,” he said. The city is losing sprawling playgrounds for one or other purposes. Kasturchand Park has been affected due to Metro Rail station and other works. Reshimbagh playground is usually occupied for various programmes. The NMC is changing user of Patwardhan ground at Dhantoli for commercial purpose. Open spaces of layouts which are supposed to be developed as playgrounds too are hit due to construction of community halls, statues, parking, gardens etc. PLAYGROUND ENCROACHED * Indora maidan is situated on the right side of road connecting Indora Square on Kamptee road with Jaripatka * It is the biggest playground in North Nagpur * Many, including Slum Soccer, used it for sports purposes * There is confusion between NMC, collector office and Bezonbagh Society, so no custodian of playground for last many years * Traders are storing construction material * Trucks and other vehicles are always parked here * Anyone enters and holds programmes and exhibitions * Debris and garbage lying everywhere on the playground||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indora-maidan-on-verge-of-destruction-in-absence-of-custodian/articleshow/75537344.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||After five new Covid-19 cases, no. of containment zones in dist rises to 15||Visakhapatnam: Vizag reported five new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the number of containment zones in the district to 15 and the number of cases to 34. Four lakh people under 25 wards of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and two rural areas now fall under red zones. Sources said 1,14,819 households in the Port City, Narsipatnam and Kasimkota and Padmanabham mandals will be included under red zones. Containment zones with high population are Gopalapatnam (above 60,000), where a case was reported on Saturday. Among the 15 containment zones, Rangireeju Veedhi (above 45,000), Dandu Bazaar (40,000), Chengalaraopet (39,000) and Kunchamamba Colony in Gajuwaka (37,000) have high population. Vizag reported its first Covid-19 positive case in March after a man tested positive in Allipuram. His wife later tested positive as well. The couple were discharged from hospital after they tested negative on several tests following 14 days of isolation. The highest number of cases have been reported from Dandu Bazaar (7), Railway New Colony (6), Revadi (4) in Padmanabham and Komativeedhi (3) in Narsipatnam. Allipuram, Muslim Thatichetlapalem and ITI Junction have reported two cases each. Other containment zones have reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-five-new-covid-19-cases-no-of-containment-zones-in-dist-rises-to-15/articleshow/75522522.cms||Siva G
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||On the brink of despair, migrant couple stranded in Visakhapatnam chooses life||VISAKHAPATNAM: Amid the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, the story of Dona and Mithun, a migrant worker couple from Arunachal Pradesh stranded in a labour shelter in Visakhapatnam, speaks about defying despair and beginning afresh. In 2018, the inter-faith couple who had known each since high school, ran away from their native state and landed in the City of Destiny. The two were at the time barely adults. They found job in a cement factory near Yelamanchili and were married in keeping with their respective religious traditions. After a year, the couple planned to move to the Gulf in the hopes of a better life. “I paid all my savings to a visa agent and we were supposed to travel in March 2020. But after the Covid-19 turbulence started, the agent kept postponing the visa formalities and fled one day without responding to our calls anymore.” Their ordeal had just begun. With all savings gone, Dona realised she was pregnant. Within two weeks, they lost their job at the cement factory due to the lockdown. Back on the streets and with no support, they started walking back to Arunachal Pradesh, 2,500 km away, battling hunger and despair. Dona wanted to have an abortion, but all elective medical facilities for a medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) at hospitals were closed. “We could not even commit suicide because no trains were running and we had no money to buy pesticides. After walking for about 110 km in three days, to the district border, the police brought us back with some others to a shelter home in Vizag city,” said Mithun. It was at the shelter home where some good Samaritans like Dr Malladi Sarma from NRI Medical College were distributing food and carrying out tests for migrants. “Slowly, interacting with the doctors and social workers, hope revived. We both wanted to end our lives in severe hunger and despair, but people like Dr Sarma taught us that life means to live,” said Dona. Speaking to TOI, Dr Sarma said, “Dona showed me photographs of their marriage following Hindu, Christian and Muslim traditions just to prove they are Indians above all.” Nearly a fortnight after their stay at the shelter, the government and district authorities have made their travel arrangements to Arunachal this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/on-the-brink-of-despair-migrant-couple-chooses-life/articleshow/75522538.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 4, 2020||Business||UIDAI to pay CBSL for Apr||Bengaluru: Aadhaar issuing body UIDAI said it has agreed in principle to make payments to Conneqt Business Solutions Ltd (CBSL), formerly Tata Business Support Services, on humanitarian grounds during the lockdown. UIDAI said that the contract between UIDAI and CBSL is neither cancelled nor suspended. But the contract, it said, is on “per connect minute” basis irrespective of the number of resources engaged. “The contact centre services of UIDAI during the month of April 2020 were put on hold for the duration of lockdown following declaration of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic,” UIDAI said. So there’s no payment liability, it said. Last week, some CBSL staff had taken to Twitter to express their anguish over not getting April salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uidai-to-pay-cbsl-for-apr/articleshow/75524069.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Three more discharged as 50 recover in city||Nagpur: Three patients, including a 15-year-old girl, recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from hospital in Nagpur on Sunday. With these three, the city completed half century of the recovered patients.Out of 151 total patients in Nagpur, now 50 have been discharged and eight have completed their home quarantine period of 14 days successfully. They are completely Covid-19 free now. Out of first 50, total 26 were admitted in GMCH while 24 were in IGGMCH. The recovery rate of Nagpur’s patients is 33.33% which is way more than Maharashtra state’s 17% and national recovery rate which is around 25%.Nagpur’s first patient was recorded on March 11 and was discharged from hospital on March 26, exactly the 15th day of admission in hospital.City’s 50th patient who got discharged on Sunday is a 15-year-old girl from Satranjipura. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 11 and was admitted in GMCH on April 12. The girl was asymptomatic carrier but had tested positive in her 14th day test. As per protocol, treatment was continued and fresh samples were taken on 20th and 21st day of admission. Both samples came negative. Hence, she was given discharge on May 3.With city completed half century of recovered patients, Vidarbha is now moving towards century. Till Sunday, 94 patients have successfully recovered and been discharged from different hospitals in the region. Most of the admitted patients are asymptomatic and expected to recover on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-more-discharged-as-50-recover-in-city/articleshow/75524070.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Malnad had special place in poet’s life||Mysuru: The beauty of Shivamogga district has influenced many of the works by K S Nisar Ahmed. Perhaps the best manifestation of this inspiration is found in Nityotsava, the song in praise of motherland which celebrates the grandeur of Jog Falls, Tunga River and the Sahyadri mountains in Malnad. Well-known writer from Shivamogga, Na D’souza, one of Nisar’s good friends, said the Nityotsava Kavi was influenced a lot by the serene beauty of Malnad region. “According to me, two important poems of Nisar Ahmed are Nityotsava and Kurigalu Saar Kurigalu,” he said. Nisar wrote Nityotsava in 1978 for a recording at the All India Radio station in Bengaluru. Shivamogga had a special place in his life. He served at the Sahyadri College twice – from 1967- 72 and 1975-78. Chairing the 73rd Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in Shivamogga in December 2006, Nisar recalled the proud legacy of Kannada language and spoke about the steps needed for its promotion. Nis inaugurated the 408th edition of the Mysuru Dasara on September 21, 2017. He delivered the message of communal harmony on this occasion. He started his speech by reciting lines from the poems of Da Ra Bendre, another great Kannada poet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/malnad-had-special-place-in-poets-life/articleshow/75521855.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nashik||District still in red, but some restrictions eased||Nashik: With 361 Covid-19 positive cases, the Nashik district continues to be a red zone. However, the city, which has had 16 cases, can expect some respite with the government okaying reopening of shops and private offices with limited staff provided they strictly adhere to all social distancing and hygiene norms. “There is absolutely no relaxation in the containment zones. But in other areas, standalone shops are permitted to open and private offices can also operate with less than 33% staff. The detailed notification will be issued by Monday,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said quoting the revised guidelines of the state government on measures to be taken for Covid-19 containment. The collector, however, clearly ruled out the reopening of liquor shops across the district. “We are deferring the decision to start the liquor shops, but we will be consulting the police commissioner and others before deciding on the finer points. The notification will reflect the same,” Mandhare added. About essential services, Another senior officer from the administration, while talking about essential services said a decision on time restrictions was yet to be decided. “We will be deciding on the timings to ensure there is no rush on the streets,” he said. The standalone (single) shops, neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential complexes are permitted to remain open in urban areas, excluding the corporations Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Malegaon Municipal Corporation, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Corporation, without any distinction between essential and non-essential category provided the number of such shops is less than five in a lane, read the condition 7 (2) (d) of the order dated May 2 and signed by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. While all the standalone shops in rural areas will be allowed to function, the shopping malls and complexes across the district will continue to remain closed, the order added. At the same time, government and private offices in the district, excluding Malegaon, can operate with up to 33% staff of, the order said. However, traffic movement will remain restricted as there will be no public transport or even the radio cab operating services in the district. Box Open & Shut Allowed: Single shops and neighbourhood shops in residential areas; shops in partially in urban areas barring the Malegaon municipal limits; shops in rural areas; private and government offices can operate with up to 33% staff Not Allowed: Spas; saloons; barber shops, inter-city & intra-city buses, taxis, cab aggregators, autorickshaws; shopping malls and complexes across the district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-still-in-red-but-some-restrictions-eased/articleshow/75523440.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC move to ‘detain’ 1,400 Satranjipura residents challenged in HC||Nagpur: A Chhaoni resident has moved the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court challenging the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s move to “detain” over 1,400 persons from Satranjipura and its similar plans for Mominpura residents on the pretext of quarantining them. Since the petitioner has termed in his prayers an “extraordinary situation”, the administrative judge allowed hearing on a Sunday. It’s only second time in Nagpur bench’s history that the hearing took place on a Sunday. Earlier, the HC had heard a case on April 8, 2019, filed by assembly speaker Nana Patole, who had contested Lok Sabha polls from the city, raising doubts over efficacy of the EVMs. Justice Anil Kilor issued notices to the Centre, state chief secretary, NMC and other respondents, asking them to file a reply by Tuesday. Terming the NMC’s action as illegal, petitioner Mohammad Nishat, through counsels — Tushar Mandlekar and Rohan Malviya — contended that the move violated the prescribed protocols and guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health and family welfare. Quoting Union ministry’s guidelines on institutional quarantine facilities, Mandlekar argued that such centres should ideally be on the city’s outskirts, but in Nagpur all Covid suspects are kept at MLA Hostel, Vanamati, Ravi Bhavan and VNIT Hostel, which are situated in crowded areas, thus risking the lives of residents. Representing the NMC, counsel Sudhir Puranik said patients who are in the category of ‘high risk contacts’ are being quarantined. He submitted that the corporation is strictly following the guidelines issued in respect of Covid-19. NMC’s health department medico Dr Pravin Gantawar pointed out that care has been taken as per guidelines before taking any person to quarantine facility. He said with a view to break the chain of Covid-19 virus and in the interest of citizens, such necessary steps have been taken. “The authorities are picking up persons randomly from Satranjipura and Mominpura and quarantining them though they don’t fall in ‘high risk’ and ‘low risk’ contact categories. If any person is outside the purview of both the categories, putting them into quarantine amounts to infringement of their rights under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of Constitution of India,” said Mandlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-move-to-detain-1400-satranjipura-residents-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/75524494.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 4, 2020||Chennai||MSMEs, others confused about reopening for biz||Chennai: Many micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and other businesses in Chennai’s suburbs are still unclear about the procedures to be followed for reopening their units. They claim that the government order that allowed reopening from Monday was confusing and there was no clarity on whether their employees require separate passes to commute to workspaces and back home. Tamil Nadu government on Saturday allowed MSMEs, except those located within corporation limits and containment zones, to reopen with 50% workforce from Monday. Soon after hearing the news, MSMEs started applying for vehicle passes for its employees, but many were rejected, say industry owners. Chennai has hundreds of MSMEs on its outskirts in the Kancheepuram, Chengelpet and Tiruvallur districts. “Not all workers reside near their workplaces. For instance, workers travel all the way from Porur and Tiruvallur to work in units at Thirumullaivoyal and Thirumalisai. What if police don’t allow them to cross district borders without a vehicle pass,” asked C Babu, former state president of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA from Chennai. While the GO states that no such passes were required for those located in village and town panchayats and company ID cards will suffice, it doesn’t mention other areas. “If the government was keen on allowing MSMEs to reopen, it should issue an order instructing police to accept self-declaration forms given by companies and not expect us to approach collectors. Also, ID cards were mostly not given for such skilled workers as they keep shifting to different companies every three or four months,” Babu added. As far as NBFCs were concerned, they were not sure whether they should apply for permission or they can continue as usual. “There is no clarity about the state government order,” said Meghraj Lulawat, who was denied permission to run an NBFC at Kilpauk. Greater Chennai Corporation officials in response said that his shop was located in a trade complex and rules don’t permit them to open. Sanjay Bhansali, managing director of Deccan Finances, said many NBFCs were also confused about using company vehicles and allowing employees’ to use own vehicles to commute. Civic officials clarified that arranging transport was mandatory for major industries, construction, IT and ITES firms but not for smaller businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/msmes-others-confused-about-reopening-for-biz/articleshow/75524072.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 4, 2020||Chennai||GST growth of 5.5% pulls economy down||Chennai: Tamil Nadu has recorded the lowest GST revenue growth among industrial states in the last financial year. Data released by the GST website shows the state’s growth at 5.48%, was significantly lower than the national average of 7.17%.GST revenue includes central GST, state GST, inter-state GST and cess. Tamil Nadu’s total GST revenue in 2019-20 was Rs74,430.43 crore, compared to Rs70,562.21 crore in 2018-19.Experts say the reason for the poor performance is slowdown of its biggest sector – manufacturing. "Overall there had been a slowdown in the country during 2019-20 and Tamil Nadu was not an exception. Being a manufacturing state, the GST growth is likely to be lower compared to previous year due to the lower growth of GSDP," said New Delhi-based professor N R Bhanumurthy of National Institute of Public Finance & Policy. Last year the automobile industry, with its hub in TN, had seen a setback in demand and many firms had been forced to scale down production.The poor numbers, therefore, were not unexpected. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in his budget speech on February 14 had said the growth in 2019-20 is 7.27% against 8.17% in the previous year. "Global and national level economic headwinds are faced by Tamil Nadu as well, at this time. But TN has withstood these fierce headwinds and we expect a stronger growth performance in 2020-21," said Panneerselvam.In states like Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, pharmaceuticals, agriculture and IT sectors pulled up the numbers. But in TN, lack of such diversity of industries affected the state’s growth, say experts. Sources in the finance department told TOI that the slowdown hit Tamil Nadu more due to the presence of manufacturing companies. "Tamil Nadu which is an automobile hub has been hit badly after the slowdown began. This is one of the main reasons for the GST growth being low in Tamil Nadu," said Madras School of Economic director K R Shanmugam.Changing GST council rates, and taxes on products compounded the issue as small traders and manufacturers could not properly file their GST. "There are some unsettled issues in Tamil Nadu which are also affecting the GST collection. Issues with filing of GST returns have not yet been solved," said Shanmugam. He said when GST was launched it was expected that the tax revenue growth in Tamil Nadu will be 14% each year. But looking at the growth in 2019-20, the state has a long way to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gst-growth-of-5-5-pulls-economy-down/articleshow/75524071.cms||B Sivakumar
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mother, teen girl commit suicide||NAGPUR: A 40-year-old woman and her 15-year-old daughter have committed suicide by hanging themselves from the ceiling fan at their home on Sunday afternoon at Alankar Nagar. The reason behind their act is still not known. The two said goodbye to their family members in the suicide note and did not blame anyone. The deceased have been identified as Utreksha Meshram and her daughter Rupali. According to police, Utreksha and her husband were suffering from a STD. They were living with a daughter and a son. On Sunday, when Utreksha’s husband and their son were sitting in the hall, the mother-daughter duo locked themselves inside another room and hanged themselves. The incident came to light when Utreksha’s husband called her but she did not respond. He then broke the door only to find his wife and daughter hanging from the fan. He raised an alarm and neighbours gathered. Hudkeshwar police were informed and rushed to the place. They sent the bodies to GMCH where post-mortem was conducted. Hudkeshwar police have registered case of accidental deaths. Senior PI Rajkamal Waghmare said we recovered a suicide note from the spot but no conclusion could be drawn from it abouot reasons for their act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mother-teen-girl-commit-suicide/articleshow/75524076.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Armymen give sweets to Deolali Camp police||Nashik: Personnel from the armed forces on Sunday paid a visit to the Nashik Deolali Camp police station to express gratitude towards their contribution in the government’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The armymen expressed their gratitude towards police personnel in various parts of the country — either by flying past hospitals, showering flowers from helicopters or performing outside government hospitals. Senior PI of the Deolali Camp police station Devidas Vajale said that senior army officer of the School of Artillery in Deolali Camp also sent a message of gratitude for policemen who serve on the frontline during times of crisis. The armymen also distributed sweets to police personnel during their visit. A large number of police personnel are posted in the containment zones of the district in view of lockdown. These policemen are doing their duty despite knowing that they too could contract the virus, said senior police officials, adding that police are constantly on their toes to ensure that people do not step out of their homes. Despite several warnings, some people are hesitant to adhere to police instructions. They are not only endangering their lives, but also of others, including on-duty policemen and people in the essential services category, the officials added. The Deolali Camp police staff said that they were happy to learn that the army too has taken note of the their constant efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/armymen-give-sweets-to-deolali-camp-police/articleshow/75523454.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Awaiting results, bodies at morgue start decomposing||Aurangabad: Due to a limited storage capacity at the Government Medical College and Hospital’s Aurangabad-based morgue, bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients have been lying outside the storage area while awaiting the results of throat swab tests. Some of the bodies have started decomposing. Currently, the GMCH morgue is operating from an alternative facility in the nephrology building. All six cabinets on priority are being used to preserve unidentified and unclaimed bodies with medico-legal cases. Experts from the forensic department cited a series of natural as well as technical reasons for the early decomposition of bodies. In the cases involving dead bodies of those who tested positive for Covid-19, most relatives are under institutional quarantine, making it difficult for them to collect the bodies. All the bodies coming from the medicine department — including those who had been under treatment for fever and breathing difficulties — are being treated as positive, unless their swab tests conclude them to be negative. GMCH’s head of forensic science Kailash Zine told TOI: “All the bodies are wrapped in body bags made of thick plastic so that there is no cross-infection. Normally, it takes about eight hours to get reports of the swab tests. Due to rising temperature, co-morbidity factor of the deceased clubbed with the use of thick body bags, decomposition is happening fast.” The officer said all the bodies of suspected patients are being kept in a separate hall instead of the freezing cabinets. “To put a body in the cabinet, it requires three men. We can’t risk exposing three men for each body,” said Zine. Sources said after the recent controversy about handing over the body of a 65-year-old woman, who later was found to be Covid-19 positive, the GMCH administration has decided to not to hand over the bodies till the reports test negative. In the cases involving positive patients, the GMCH administration, the civic body authorities and some NGOs are carrying out the last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/awaiting-results-bodies-at-morgue-start-decomposing/articleshow/75517285.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Indian Army honours city’s healthcare warriors||Vadodara: A band of Indian Army honoured doctors, nurses and healthcare staff in the city on Sunday morning. The military band played Gorkha Regiment’s martial music at the state-run SSG Hospital in the presence of hospital and healthcare staff of the city to honour them as frontline warriors in the battle against coronavirus. The tune is usually played when soldiers go in the battlefield or during training exercise to create duty first attitude. “We had selected the tune as doctors, nurses and healthcare staff are fighting a long battle. It is a very old tune,” an officer told TOI. Colonel Dogyel Sherpa along with major Tushar Bargali, major Abhishek Gunjan and major Deepak Khurana remained present at the programme when the 10-member band played the music. Later, SSG Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, dean of Baroda Medical College Dr Tanuja Javadekar, Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s medical officer Dr Devesh Patel among others were felicitated on behalf of the entire medical and healthcare fraternity. “Ever since the first Covid-19 patient was admitted, SSG Hospital has remained in the centre of the fight against coronavirus. Social distancing norms and other guidelines were maintained at the programme,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/indian-army-honours-citys-healthcare-warriors/articleshow/75522859.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bhopal||COVID-19 16 test positive||Bhopal: As many as 16 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal on Sunday, taking the number of cases to 543. Covid-19 has impacted Press Complex area of Bhopal. In MP Nagar Zone-1, a vegetable vendor and two others tested positive for the deadly contagion. They have been hospitalised. Other cases were reported from Jehangirabad, Bhudwara and Shahjehabad area. Two people were reported from Noor Bagh campus. Three more Covid-19 patients were admitted to AIIMS Bhopal. Total 48 Covid-19 patients are presently admitted in hospital of AIIMS Bhopal. 43 patients are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 wards and are clinically stable. Five are critically ill and undergoing treatment in Covid ICU on oxygen support, according to institute officials. All admitted patients are receiving treatment as per treatment protocol. Two people were got discharge after successful treatment on Saturday. Patients expressed their gratitude towards the AIIMS Bhopal and to all cadres of health staff for the care and services. So far since beginning of Covid-19 crisis four patients have died in AIIMS Bhopal. There have been no deaths in the last 24 hours. Some 507 tests were conducted in AIIMS Bhopal lab on Sunday. Ten new cases were diagnosed. Apart from it, repeat positive were five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-16-test-positive/articleshow/75524505.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Apply online for passes for cooks, house help: Chennai corporation||CHENNAI: People employed as house help and cooks can return to work from Monday, but will need to apply for a pass from the Greater Chennai Corporation. The civic body’s commissioner G Prakash on Sunday announced that those employing domestic help and cooks can apply for passes online at tnepass.tnega.org. Apart from this, self-employed workers such as plumbers, electricians, airconditioner servicemen, carpenters, home care providers for people with special needs and others can also apply for permission through the same website, GCC informed through a press release. Meanwhile, shops selling essential goods can function from 6am to 5pm. E-commerce service providers handling food and essential commodities can deliver as per the time already permitted. Restaurants will be allowed to function from 6am to 9pm. Prakash also announced that all construction activities in the city can start from Monday, but only with workers staying in-situ (within the construction site). Proper precautions like masks and social distancing will have to be followed. However, this doesn’t apply to sites which are in containment zones. SEZ, EOU, export units, import export companies after due inspection and approval by the commissioner can be started with 25% of the workforce. IT and IT-enabled services will be allowed to function only with 10% of workforce (minimum 20 employees). The employees should travel only in vehicles operated by the respective organisations. The companies can apply for travel passes on the same website. Shops selling construction, hardware, cement, construction material, sanitary ware and electrical items shall be allowed from 9am to 5pm. Shops dealing in servicing mobile phones, selling other electronics, motors, spectacles and household appliances will be permitted to function from 10am to 5pm. The corporation has sent notices to around 750 marriage halls in the city saying they will be converted into quarantine centres if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/apply-online-for-passes-for-cooks-house-help-corpn/articleshow/75524077.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nashik||People stuck in Ahmednagar start leaving||Nashik: People stranded across Ahmednagar district due to the lockdown have started returning to their native places after fresh guidelines to allow the movement were announced. A group of tourists from Rajasthan, out for a pilgrimage, had been stopped by the police on April 1. Since then, the travellers had been stuck in Ahmednagar. After the Centre allowed inter-state movement of the people by their own vehicles (with strict adherence to social distancing norms), these 52 people started their journey back home. “It has been a very long and unexpected halt at Ahmednagar. But the administration took good care of us. Except for the haunting thought that we were away from our homes and families, everything else was peaceful,” Ramesh Meena, one of the travellers, said. Ahmednagar has about 2,200 people who have been put up in shelter homes, including migrant workers are from Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and many more places. “All of them will now be able to go home as the administration would arrange for ‘Shramik trains’ that will carry only the ones who have been put up in camps and have health certificates. Besides, they also have to get no-objection certificates from their home states,” the officer said. The officer also added that they would be arranging for the travel of the workers who need to go to Uttar Pradesh, even those stranded in Nashik Nashik. “Officers have told us about people stuck in Nashik. As soon as we finalise the plans, those stranded in Nashik could be accommodated in the special train,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-stuck-in-ahmednagar-start-leaving/articleshow/75523447.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Covid distress finds voice in Kathakali||Thrissur: Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on life like never before with lockdowns and isolation. As people struggle to cope with the new normal, lyricist A V Vasudevan Poti has written a Kathakalippadam (song) about the dreaded virus, for which mudras have been composed by former principal and present dean of Kalamandalam, Kalamandalam Balasubramanian. The Kathakalippadam describes how the Covid-19 pandemic has upended normal life and seeks divine intervention to help humans in their race to find a vaccine to fight the coronavirus. In his verses, Vasudevan Poti seeks the blessings of Dhanwanthara Moorthy (Hindu God of medicine) to help find a treatment for Covid-19. The Kathakalippadam has been sung by well-known Kathakali singer Nedumpally Ram Mohan. When Kalamandalam Balasubramanian came across the song on a WhatsApp group, he decided to compose ‘mudras’ for the concepts mentioned in it. “There were three words which were unrelated to Kathakali. They were: Covid-19, Vaidyan and Dhanwanthara Moorthy,” said Balasubramanian. “There are 24 mudras codified in the treatise, Hasta Lakshana Deepika, an ancient text followed by Kathakali artists. I created three mudras for the three words mentioned in the Kathakalipadam based on the Shukathundam Mudra,” saidBalasubramanian. “The song seeks God’s blessing in developing vaccines and treatments to fight the coronavirus. Dhanwanthara Moorthy is considered the father of medicine. He is the ultimate healer and the God who has the power to cure all diseases,” said Balasubramanian They conducted a performance with limited facilities due to lockdown restrictions and it was recorded on a mobile phone. However, it has gone viral on social media. Vasudevan Poti said it was the severity of the coronavirus pandemic that caused devastating human suffering across the world that prompted him to think about writing a Kathakalippadam about it. “The song reflects the times,” he said. “After lockdown restrictions are lifted, we are planning to conduct a Kathakali performance based on the song,” said Balasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-distress-finds-voice-in-kathakali/articleshow/75522557.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Woman stays negative despite being with +ve daughter for 14 days||Nagpur: A 35-year-old woman from Satranjipura, city’s first coronavirus hotspot, has remained negative despite staying with her 11-year-old corona positive daughter at Isolation Ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for last 14 days. The girl had tested positive on April 20 and her mother whose reports were awaited at that time shifted from MLA Hostel Institutional Quarantine Centre to GMCH to be with her. TOI had on April 22 reported about mother’s decision not to let her minor girl be admitted alone at Isolation Ward.GMCH doctors told TOI, “Reports of the woman were negative after she came to GMCH with her daughter. Mother and daughter are in same ward with other positive persons but are maintaining safe distance. Both wear mask, gloves and take all precautions. Their masks, gloves etc are changed every three hours. The woman is taking extra care and having no health issues,” doctors said.Doctors added, “Samples of woman and her daughter will be taken and tested before taking decision on their discharge.”The minor girl was among 10 members of the family that was quarantined at MLA Hostel in connection with 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first Covid-19 death. They are neighbours of the deceased. Samples of minor girl, her mother, father, two siblings and other family members were taken on April 18. Reports of remaining family members were negative.Probably, the girl used to play with children of deceased’s daughter so she was only positive from the family.On Saturday, another woman from Satranjipura got admitted with her 16-month-old girl (positive) at IGGMCH Isolation Ward despite having been negative herself.Earlier, a woman from Mominpura had got admitted with her five-year-old son (positive) even though her reports were awaited. After a day, the woman tested positive.One person from Khamla has continued to stay with his daughter at IGGMCH Isolation Ward despite turning negative and recommended for discharge on April 11. In this case, both were positive when they were admitted. The two have completed 38 days in isolation ward as the girl remained positive. Fresh samples of the girl are likely to be taken tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-stays-negative-despite-being-with-ve-daughter-for-14-days/articleshow/75524082.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Chennai||Highest unemployment rate in state: Nat’l survey||Chennai: More than a month into the lockdown, when the dust has gathered over tools and savings have run dry for daily wage workers, an employment survey by the think tank Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows the stark reality of Tamil Nadu. The state registered the highest unemployment rate of 49.8% in the country in April.While the national figure stands at 23.5%, the unemployment rate in TNincreased by 43.5% within a month. In March it was 6.3%, according to the survey. Over a longer time period, unemployment has moved from 0.9% in May 2019 to its current rate.As per the survey, unemployment was highest in Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, and Bihar at 49.8%, 47.1%, and 46.6%.Closure of TN’s vibrant labour-intensive micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) since March 25 left a majority of workers without any employment. Tamil Nadu, along with Kerala, is among the few states which has more number of non-agricultural workers in their economies. "This could be the main reason for the unemployment rate increasing in the past month in Tamil Nadu," said professor M Vijayabaskar of Madras Institute of Development Studies."Since the effect of lockdown is felt more in urban areas compared to rural areas, also since Tamil Nadu is one of the most urbanised state, the unemployment rate is very high compared to the other states," said Vijayabaskar.CITU vice-president A Soundarajan said in south and north Tamil Nadu, many people employed in cashew, beedi and matchstick industries were affected badly and many had lost jobs.The way out after the lockdown is for the government to support the MSMEs and other industries which employ more people, said industrialists and trade union members. "Even before lockdown several lakhs of jobs were lost during the slowdown and with the lockdown, it is a double whammy for Tamil Nadu," said A Soundarajan."Since July last year, automobile companies were facing problems and contract and casual labourers lost their jobs. Similarly, textile industry is one such industry which has been affected badly even before the lockdown. Here too, many people working in dyeing factories and as tailors lost jobs," said Soundarajan. "There are more than 80 lakh people waiting for employment in the employment exchanges. This is because jobs in private sector are very hard to get even before the lockdown. All these have led to Tamil Nadu having the highest unemployment rate," said Soundarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/highest-unemployment-rate-in-state-natl-survey/articleshow/75524040.cms||B Sivakumar
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Fin insecurity triggers domestic abuse’||Thiruvananthapuram: A quick study conducted by Kerala Institute of Local Administration (Kila) has cited financial insecurity as one of the major reasons for domestic abuses during the lockdown period, which the UN Women termed ‘shadow pandemic’. During the lockdown period from March 23 to April 18, various helplines in the state received 188 complaints of domestic abuse, of which 102 were about physical abuse.Among various reasons, financial difficulty was cited as reason behind 40 cases and alcoholism behind 28. While 13 cases were related to suspicion, four cases were for refusing to have sex. Kila conducted an analysis of the complaints received by various helplines run by organizations such as Bhoomika, Mitra and Sakhi. In tune with international studies that prove a connection between stress caused by financial insecurities and increasing domestic violence, KILA too cited that financial issues caused by the spread of Covid-19 are affecting women the most. A field level study, on the other hand, showed that non-availability of alcohol has contributed to a peaceful environment in various homes. Abusive partners are the major villains in most cases. Husbands are cited as the accused in 131 cases, while in-laws are the abusers in 23 cases. Children are the accused in 10 cases while parents are abusers in six cases. One of the major observations of the report is that the number of unreported cases would be much higher than those reported. Mobility issues due to lockdown, presence of the accused in the house, lack of mobile phone and internet facilities or options for recharge, lack of alternative accommodation for stay if abandoned from the house, etc. were found to be some reasons for non-reporting. In Kasaragod, some women facing domestic abuse cited that they feared reporting as they have no option at the time of pandemic. One of the significant observations in the study is the failure of women to recognize sexual abuse as a crime due to the social condition which normalizes marital rape. Kila director general Joy Elamon said that it was not an elaborate study, but a quick one to understand the situation. He said that the study points to the need to strengthen social support system and to senstitize public through various options. He said that number of cases was not important as many victims would not be able to report due to various reasons. “Women are made to bear the stress if a man loses job or faces pay cut. Their own job loss is another concern,” he said. Elamon said that in some houses, lockdown has opened up avenue for families to spend more time together, sharing domestic chores and for a better environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fin-insecurity-triggers-domestic-abuse/articleshow/75522543.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Business||54% face loss in income, 67% cut spends: Survey||BENGALURU: The lockdown has hit consumers hard, forcing them to change their spending pattern. A survey on Indian consumer sentiments conducted amid the lockdown by management consulting firm McKinsey showed that 54% people have seen a loss in income and 67% have cut back on their spending. Grocery, household supplies, and at-home entertainment areas are the areas where consumers indicated they are going to continue spending. Consumers are cutting back their spending on non-essentials like apparel, accessories, footwear, alcohol, snacks, food-takeout & delivery, consumer electronics, personal care services, vehicle-purchase, and out-of-home entertainment. In the survey, conducted between April 10 and 13, 57% respondents said they had witnessed a loss in household savings in the past two weeks and 55% felt they will continue to lose out for the next two weeks. But 58% feel the economy will bounce back stronger than before in 2-3 months compared to about 52% in a March-end survey. The coronavirus outbreak will cause further change in the channels of shopping. Purchase of household supplies, grocery, personal-care products, entertainment and media will expand online. Some sectors like apparel, alcohol, tobacco, jewellery and snacks are likely to be offline-focused. Before the lockdown started, a McKinsey report had shown a 40% rise in consumer spend at online grocers, surpassing traditional retail formats. Only local kirana shops matched this rise in spend due to proximity to consumers amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/54-face-loss-in-income-67-cut-spends-survey/articleshow/75524081.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stranded Indians in Malaysia have little money left to return||VISAKHAPATNAM: After it was reported that several stranded Indian nationals were detained by immigration officials in Kuala Lumpur on April 1, the Indian high commission in Malaysia reached out to them over the phone. More than 325 Indians, a majority of them from the southern states, have been stranded in Malaysia since March 17 as flights have been cancelled. However, officials of the Indian high commission said that the people willing to travel need to have atleast Rs 25,000-Rs 30,000. If a rescue flight from Malaysia to India is arranged in this week, the amount would be inclusive of the air fare and the quarantine facilities on reaching India. Sources in Malaysia, said the government has taken all their details and is preparing a list prioritising senior citizens, pregnant ladies and people with health issues. On receiving a call from the Indian embassy on Sunday, Manoj whose parents are stranded in Malaysia, said, “Since my parents are senior citizens, they said a flight from Malaysia might be arranged on priority basis. On being asked for confirmation on willingness to travel, I was unsure as the prices were very high. A lot of money is stuck as I booked and cancelled tickets thrice during the lockdown. It is difficult to bear such a huge price which is five times more than normal.” “My parents who are from Vizag are senior citizens and had come here on a tourist visa. My father is 70-years-old and mother 65-years-old and blood pressure patients. They are waiting to return to India as they need to consult doctors,” he said. Padma (name changed) who is from Nellore, said, “Most of the money that I had saved was spent in the past one and half month as my family got stranded in Malaysia. It is very difficult for me to arrange Rs 80,000-Rs 90,000 for their return to India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stranded-indians-in-malaysia-have-little-money-left-to-return/articleshow/75522564.cms||Reshma Jain
May 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Police to continue decoy operation||NASHIK: Police have decided to continue with the decoy operations at checkposts in the city to ensure that the police personnel and volunteers do not allow movement of vehicles. Senior officials of the city police said that a decoy team visited the sealing point in Vilholi to check the functioning of the police personnel on Saturday. The team expressed satisfaction after learning that the personnel deployed there did not allow even a single vehicle to pass without a valid reason. There are a total of 86 points in the city where police checkposts have been set up. A team of police personnel carry out decoy operations at any of these posts randomly and report the findings to the senior police officers. During the decoy operation, the undercover policemen usually travelling on private two-wheelers or cars give various excuses to the personnel at these checkposts so that they are allowed to cross the point. Sometimes money is also offered to check if the on-duty personnel budges and falls into their trap. Police said that they were putting in their best efforts to ensure that people are adhering to the lockdown norms. For this, they have also put in place a system of issuing passes to citizens to travel within the city, but only for emergency purposes. More than 1,200 people have been issued passes by the city police for intercity travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-to-continue-decoy-operation/articleshow/75523463.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||We will starve unless business returns to normal, says Murli Sakharkar (47), photocopy shop owner||I run a photocopy shop in a sub-registrar office and live in Kotwal Nagar. I am not married and I live alone. Still I have run out of money. Unless the government lifts the lockdown I will face starvation. I had about Rs 20,000 in my account when the lockdown began. I do not have a below poverty line (BPL) ration card and hence have to buy everything at market rate. I also paid the electricity and water bills. In addition, I gave some money to my two assistants as they also have to take care of their families. Now I have almost run out of money. I used to earn about Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 per month after paying salary to my two assistants. So I don’t have much savings. Not only will I face problems but the families of my two assistants will also starve unless business is back to normal. I paid my assistants some money in early April but now I don’t have any money to pay them in May. I know they will face a lot of problems if I don’t pay them but I simply don’t have any money. They and I are practically in the same boat. All of us face a grim future. The government must understand there are crores of people like us who do not have substantial savings. If the lockdown continues, we will simply have no money to even buy food. Either the government must provide financial assistance or lift the lockdown. There is no other way. (As told to Ashish Roy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-will-starve-unless-business-returns-to-normal-says-murli-sakharkar-47-photocopy-shop-owner/articleshow/75524087.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Valpoi civic body waves off rent in municipal market||Valpoi: In a first, shopkeepers at the Valpoi municipal complex will be exempted from payment of rent for three months owing to the national lockdown on account of Covid-19. Health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane on Saturday held a meeting with the shopkeepers. After hearing their grievances, he directed the Valpoi Municiapal Council (VMC) to waive off shop rent for February, March and April. The 94 shopkeepers had recently submitted a memorandum to the civic body with an appeal that rent from commercial establishments operating as shops in VMC-owned complexes be waived off on account of the lockdown. “I have discussed this matter with the VMC and directed them to suspend the rent for three months. I have also asked the lease holders and tenants to bring to my notice their problems pertaining to infrastructure,” Rane said. The Valpoi MLA said that since VMC is ‘C’ class municipality, the government can take a decision to compensate the people affected during the lockdown. VMC chairperson Akhtar Ali Shah confirmed that the municipality has waived off the rent following instructions from the minister and taking into consideration the shopkeepers’ plight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/valpoi-civic-body-waves-off-rent-in-municipal-market/articleshow/75524508.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RTA starts WhatsApp services to avoid crowding at offices in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a attempt to keep the Road Transport Authority (RTA) offices free of crowds, WhatsApp services have been introduced where people can clarify doubts and enquire about procedures. Deputy transport commissioner at RTA Visakhapatnam, GC Raja Ratnam said that the service was launched on pilot basis on Sunday and the department expects responses to pour in from Monday. “We thought of introducing this facility to help people in clarifying their doubts about our online services and also limit the number of people going around the RTA offices even after the lockdown ends,” Ratnam told TOI. Ratnam said the personal WhatsApp numbers of the transport department staff have also been shared for swift redressal of grievances. The RTA officials have assigned one administrative officer for each service and released the officer’s WhatsApp number into the public domain, Ratnam added. For example, WhatsApp number 9848528493 can be used for clarifications on Aadhaar-based services. The user can send messages and an authorised officer will respond. For tax related issues, message on 9652516725. For changes in VCR application, the number is 9848528321. Similarly, any issue that needs to be informed to the road transport officer, people can send messages to the WhatsApp number 9848528366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rta-starts-whatsapp-services-to-avoid-crowding-at-offices/articleshow/75522550.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 95% positive cases from those already quarantined||Aurangabad: Cell tower tracing clubbed with large-scale contact tracing and testing has ensured that over 95% of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 10 days were quarantined by Aurangabad authorities much before their reports were generated.Starting from April 27, Aurangabad has started witnessing registration of Covid-19 positive cases in two digit numbers each day. Almost all of them are from those who are already put under institutional quarantine. Aurangabad’s success rate of quarantining possible suspects before they test positive has been good. The authorities concluded that the successful contact tracing and large scale testing of primary as well as secondary contacts has not only prevented further spread of the infection to a considerable extent, but also identified a large number of silent careers. The state has already taken cognizance of the ‘Aurangabad pattern’ which is likely to be considered for implementation in the red as well as orange zones across Maharashtra.Till Saturday evening, the total number of Covid-19 positive patients in Aurangabad reached 244.It all started with the revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar ordering large scale testing of all possible apartments and houses in a given locality of a containment zone in addition to primary and secondary contact tracing of every person testing positive for Covid-19.Working on the lines, Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey hand-picked 12 members, including two cyber crime experts provided by the city police. Thereafter, a special task force (STF) was formed on April 22.When contacted, Pandey said, “In the past 10 days, our STF has managed to contact trace almost every person that might have come directly or indirectly in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. As a result, over 90% who ended up getting tested positive for the infection were already quarantined.” Following the standard operating procedure, the STF is amongst the first to receive Covid-19 test reports of all the patients from the Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad-based Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL). The information also reflects on a dashboard provided to the STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-95-positive-cases-from-those-already-quarantined/articleshow/75517314.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Walayar ready to receive returnees||Palakkad: The state government and the district administration have made elaborate arrangements at Walayar interstate checkpost, known as the gateway to Kerala, as the central government had allowed the movement of people between the state from Monday under certain strict restrictions of Covid-19 lockdown. The medical examination centres and other checking counters were set up by health, revenue and police departments working 24 hours. Those who wish to enter the state or go out should register online along with medical certificates and details of their journey. They will be examined by the medical team at the checkpost before they are allowed to pass through, said Rajani Chidambaram, manager of National Health Programme. Their vehicles will be allowed to enter the state at Walayar through four tracks. 16 health counters are set up for medical and other examinations. Vehicles will be regulated before entering the checkpost at the state border. 12 health staff will be on duty at a time, in addition to the police and revenue department officials. Out of the 16 counters, 1 to 14 are for those entering Kerala and 15 and 16 for those leaving the state. 17k guest workers waiting to go home in PalakkadThere are 17,000 guest workers waiting to return to their state out of the 28,000 now remaining in the district. But there are no trains from Palakkad to take them and demands were made to start special trains from here to north Indian states. The Kanjikode Industries Forum leaders said that if the guest workers leave for their states it will affect the functioning of the industrial area as many companies depend on them to operate. They said that 60% of guest workers from Kanjikode wanted to return to their states. Whether they will come back and when they will return is the question before the industrial units here. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/walayar-ready-to-receive-returnees/articleshow/75522580.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Truck drivers told to limit interactions||Kozhikode: Truck drivers returning from other states to Wayanad have been told by the district administration that they can continue their work by avoiding public interactions. The decision was made after a truck driver who had returned to the district from Chennai tested positive for Covid- 19 on Saturday. District collector Dr. Adeela Abdulla said the truck drivers would be screened at Muthanga border check-post. Those who can stay alone in their houses can do so or they can stay at the Covid Care centres so as to avoid contact with the public. The period of stay in houses or Covid Care centres won't be considered as an observation period. The district administration is also exploring the possibility of allowing truck drivers to proceed to their houses from Muthanga while other drivers can take the loads to the destinations. Truck owners should ensure vehicle facility for the drivers to go home and also additional drivers. A final decision in this regard will be taken after a meeting of lorry owners to be held at the collectorate on Monday. Meanwhile, police have imposed strict restrictions in Mananthavady. District police chief R Ilango said that there will be strict restrictions on people to enter Mananthavady police station limits from outside or to move out till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/truck-drivers-told-to-limit-interactions/articleshow/75523499.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Goa green-lighted into lockdown phase 3||PANAJI: Construction activity continues to pick up in the state with the availability of raw material also improving, said industry stakeholders. The MHA’s decision to allow migrant workers to leave the state has some smaller builders worried but CREDAI – Goa does not expect a significant impact on construction activity in the days to come. Real estate developers have also begun to notice an increase in raw material prices, which could remain on the higher side, said stakeholders. “Most sites have started work again and each contractor will have his own workers. Activity may slow down if many workers leave, no doubt, but it won’t stop,” said CREDAI – Goa president Nilesh Salkar. Construction projects where raw material and labour is available have started full fledged activity and have also begun to release wages to workers to ensure them a decent livelihood. What is worrying builders is the increase in rates for a truck of sand, which comes from across the border. A builder who did not wish to be named said that authorities at the checkposts are stopping and seizing trucks carrying sand. Under the cover of darkness, sand is being extracted from Tiracol river, said the builder. Sand extraction is prohibited in Goa. “Sales inquiries are coming in but many builders have not yet opened their offices even though construction has started at a proper pace,” said a Panaji-based builder. Construction activity at Mapusa, Porvorim, Dabolim, Kadamba Plateau and Sancoale has resumed with builders trying to complete as much work as possible before the monsoons set in. “Only work that does not happen during the monsoons is new foundation. Once the plinth is complete, work inside goes on. The site work does slow down because of the rains but internal masonry, finishing goes on,” said Salkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/construction-picks-up-but-materials-become-pricier/articleshow/75524664.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Workers may stay back if they wish’||Thiruvananthapuram: State chief secretary Tom Jose has directed the police and district administrations that only those guest workers who are insisting on going back to their native places should be sent to their hometowns on special trains being arranged by the government during the lockdown period.“There’s no need to forcefully send away guest workers who are willing to stay back in Kerala. The police and district administrations should show extreme vigil not to force them to leave the state as the state government is providing all necessary support to those migrant labourers who wish to stay back,” the chief secretary said in his directive, which was issued here on Sunday, following complaints from guest workers that authorities were forcing even those not interested to leave in special trains.It was from May 1 that special train services started operating from the state to carry guest workers to their hometowns spread across the country. As many as 1,200 persons went to Odisha on the first such train on Friday, while a total of four trains began their journey from Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Kannur stations on Sunday carrying guest workers hailing from Bihar.The chief scretary, in his directive pointed out that the situation would change once the lockdown gets lifted and that various sectors like construction and manufacturing would become active. “The state government has been providing special care for its guest workers since the declaration of lockdown in the country. Top priority was given in ensuring them required food and accommodation facilities,” the directive pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/workers-may-stay-back-if-they-wish/articleshow/75522576.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Dry days over: Liquor stores in Goa to lift shutters today||PANAJI: Retail and wholesale liquor outlets in the state will commence sale of packaged bottles from Monday. Their opening is, however, subject to certain conditions, like following of social distancing norms and compulsory wearing of masks by both the seller and buyer, as per an order issued by excise commissioner Amit Satija on Sunday. The order allowing reopening of liquor outlets is not applicable to licences in prohibited areas and for licences that have been suspended. In a separate order, the excise department has permitted distilleries, breweries, wineries and country liquor bottling units to commence manufacturing and sales activities. All liquor outlets and manufacturing units will have to close earlier than usual, by 6pm. “Liquor licenced premises to open at their usual permitted time and must close by 6pm to enable employer and employees to reach home by 7pm,” the order stated. Normally, closure time for retails units is at 9pm, extendable by two hours on prior permission from the excise department. The order specifically made clear that under no circumstances bars and taverns will be allowed to open. Any violation of the order will be dealt with strictly, the excise commissioner said. Retail shops have been directed to ensure that customers maintain a minimum distance of six feet from each other and that not more than five persons are present in the queue at a time. They have to also provide hand sanitisers. Use of the Arogya Setu app has been made mandatory for all liquor shop employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dry-days-over-liquor-stores-to-lift-shutters-today/articleshow/75524666.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||Maj was looking forward to starting a family||New Delhi: Four days ago when Brigadier (retd) Chandrakant Sood called up from Panchkula to speak to his son Major Anuj in Kashmir's Handwara, they briefly spoke about his possible homecoming after the end of lockdown. They also chatted about Anuj joining his parent unit, Brigade of Guards, in Gurdaspur. On Sunday, as news broke that Anuj had been killed in a brutal gun-battle with Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists in Kashmir, the family stoically fielded incessant calls from relatives and friends. One of those was from Anuj’s young wife Aakriti. She wanted to know how she could arrange a vehicle pass, needed during the lockdown, to drive from Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh, where she had gone to visit her parents, to Panchkula near Chandigarh. "My daughter-in-law Aakriti could barely speak at first. She wanted to come immediately to be with us. But my wife and I were able to convince her to come when the mortal remains reach us on Monday,” the retired brigadier, who was with the Indian Army Corps of EME, told TOI. The couple had got married in 2017 and Anuj moved to the Valley within four months of that. "They were planning to start a family,” Sood said. “Aakriti was working with a firm in Pune. She couldn’t be with Anuj as wives are not allowed where he was posted. But she was anxiously waiting for his return. Anuj was to come back from Rashtriya Rifles and join in Gurdaspur with his unit.” Those who knew Anuj, 31, said he was fanatical about sports and found time to pursue it though he was involved so often with counter-insurgency operations. "He was a topper at Punjab Public School, Nabha, and represented the Army in equestrian events. He kept squash as his additional hobby even after he joined the Army in 2012," said a friend. “I remember when Rashtriya Rifles was being raised as a specialised unit to tackle militancy during the time I was in service, Anuj was very curious about it. He would ask me about it all the time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maj-was-looking-forward-to-starting-a-family/articleshow/75524815.cms||Rohan Dua
May 4, 2020||Madurai||3 held for illegal sale of liquor||The Virudhunagar district police officials have arrested three people on charges of selling liquor bottles in a lodge during lockdown on Saturday. The officials have seized 4,706 liquor bottles.Based on a tip-off, a team of officials lead by Virudhunagar assistant superintendent of police R Shiva Prasad carried out an inspection at a lodge situated at the Ramamoorthy Road in Virudhunagar on Saturday. During the inspection, the officials found that three people selling liquor bottles stocked up in a FL 3 bar attached to the lodge, despite the government ordering to close all the Tasmac outlets and bars in the state for the containment of Covid-19. Following this incident, the Virudhunagar East police have registered a case and arrested three people identified as Kandasamy,51, of Muthuramanpatti, Selvaganesh,31, of Kammapatti and Ramasubramanian,43, of Sevalur. Search is also on for lodge owner Rajaguruvan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-held-for-illegal-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/75524515.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Panaji fish market resumes operations under supervision, stocks sell out in 5 hours||PANAJI: Open sale of fish resumed in the Panaji market amidst heavy security by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) inspectors and police personnel on Sunday. Forty-eight of the 55 fish vendors showed up at the market in the early hours of Sunday morning and sale started from as early as 6am onwards. Vendors sold fish from their designated spaces, marked out for them by the CCP. Fish was sold only to customers who were wearing masks. TOI had reported on May 3 that there would be a ‘no mask, no fish’ diktat. On Sunday, shoppers turned up from Panaji and beyond city limits for the fish which ran out by 11am. The fish market was to be kept open till 1pm. “We placed barricades around the area and only two rows of vendors were allowed, to ensure social distancing among both vendors and customers,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The same system for fish sale will be in place until the lockdown is lifted, he said. There were no officers from the fisheries department to keep watch. Fisheries director Shamila Monteiro said that this is because the Panaji market doesn’t come under her department’s purview. “It is a good step to resume sale of fish. This will give traditional fishermen an opportunity to market their catch,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/city-fish-market-resumes-ops-under-supervision-stocks-sell-out-in-5-hours/articleshow/75524668.cms||Nida Sayed
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maha-Punjab blame game intensifies as 20 Nanded gurdwara staff, 3 others test +ve||Aurangabad: As many as 20 employees of the Nanded gurdwara, a majority of them involved in the langar, as well as two drivers and an attendant of the buses that recently transported the stranded Sikh pilgrims to Punjab, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The rising number of people associated with the gurdwara testing positive has intensified a face-off between the Punjab and Maharashtra governments over the spread of the contagion. Nanded district administration has declared the entire Takhat Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Gurudwara, different bathing ghats and premises around the shrine as containment zone, banning public movement including that of devotees. The total number of confirmed cases in Nanded district has surged to 26, including two fatalities. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday accused the Maharashtra government of misleading them on the Covid-19 results of pilgrims who returned from Nanded. Singh said that they were told by the Maharashtra government that the pilgrims were tested thrice and that the results were negative. “However, when the tests were done in Punjab, about 200 of them tested positive for Covid-19.” Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra cabinet minister Ashok Chavan, who hails from Nanded, said he would not want to get into blame game, adding, “Whatever has happened is definitely due to the people who have come from Punjab.” The Punjab government and authorities in Nanded, including the trustees of the gurdwara board, have been at loggerheads over the timing when the pilgrims had contracted the infection. Nanded deputy collector Prashant Shelke said a group of langar staffers were serving more than 3,700 stranded pilgrims, some of whom were found positive only after returning to their native state. Around 90 staffers from the langar and gurdwara premises have been shifted to the dedicated Covid care centre and the health authorities have undertaken a massive contact-tracing operation since Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maha-punjab-blame-game-intensifies-as-20-nanded-gurdwara-staff-3-others-test-ve/articleshow/75517338.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 4, 2020||Goa||With flowers and lights, defence forces applaud corona warriors||Panaji: From showers of petals to lit-up ships, the armed forces stationed in Goa showed their appreciation to doctors and healthcare workers who are on the frontline in the fight against the novel coronavirus. In response to the call by the Union ministry of defence, the Indian Navy, Army and coast guard did their bit on Sunday to show the nation’s gratitude. While a naval Chetak helicopter flew over Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, and Cottage Hospital, Chicalim, to drop flower petals, coast guard Chetak helicopter flew over ESI Hospital, Margao, and dropped flower petals. “Our doctors, nurses and health workers have rendered selfless service in controlling the spread of coronavirus,” said commanding officer, INS Hansa, Commodore Hemant Padbidri. He also said that 1,500 naval men and women got together in formation at INS Hansa to display a message thanking the corona warriors. The coast guard also showed the nation’s appreciation by illuminating three off-shore patrol vessels at Mormugao harbour. They also sounded the ship’s siren and fired flares in the evening. Apart from this, the Army’s 2 Signal Training Centre provided sweets to Goa police in North Goa. Brigadier Sanjay Rawal of 2 STC handed over the sweets, made by the Army, for the field staff of North Goa district as a sign of appreciation for the work done during the lockdown. The Navy and coast guard distributed sweets at Vasco Police station and at hospitals. “This initiatives of the armed forces was a gesture to thank doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and all other healthcare workers for their tireless and selfless efforts during the ongoing pandemic,” said the coast guard in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-flowers-and-lights-defence-forces-applaud-corona-warriors/articleshow/75524516.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cop killed as police vehicle hits boar on Wardha Road||NAGPUR: Helping a mentally ill woman reach her home turned tragic for a police party when the vehicle they were travelling in hit a stray animal on Saturday late night at National Highway 7 near Jamtha Stadium. The driver of the vehicle, constable Khushal Shegokar, 45, was killed while four others sustained injuries. TOI has been reporting about the accidents caused due to stray animals on road but administration are turning a blind eye to the problem. It couldn’t immediately be ascertained if the animal involved was a wild boar or common pig. The injured have been identified as API Snehal Thorat, constable Sajid Sayed, constable Harsha Shende and a citizen Chhaya Dhopte who sustained minor injuries. The police party belonged to the Buti Bori police station and was taking Chhaya to her home in Khaparkheda. Police said Chhaya, who is mentally ill, was seen wandering by some local residents in Thakur Layout. They took her to Buti Bori police station. Cops learnt from her that she hailed from Khaparkheda. They contacted Chhaya’s father who stated she had been missing for four to five days. Due to lockdown, Chhaya’s father could not come to Buti Bori to pick her up, so cops decided to take her home. Near Jamtha Stadium the animal suddenly came before the vehicle. Shegokar hit the animal and crashed the vehicle into a roadside nullah. The animal was also killed. A passerby informed police control room. Hingna police rushed to the spot. Meanwhile, a private bus driver also stopped to help the injured cops. He took them to a hospital in city where Shegokar was declared brought dead while others were admitted for treatment. Hingna police on Sunday morning filed a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-killed-as-police-vehicle-hits-boar-on-wardha-road/articleshow/75524093.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 4, 2020||Goa||Transport dept set to meet to decide fate of pvt buses||Panaji: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho is set to meet with representatives of various bodies of private bus owners on Monday and decide a strategy on how to implement the 50% occupancy mandated by the government to make the public transport system operational again. Private bus operators, who are known to operate by cramming their buses, taking in passengers beyond capacity, are not keen to resume operations at 50% capacity. They have demanded financial assistance from the government. Monday’s meetings are expected to evolve a strategy to keep the transport systen running. “I’m meeting with the South Goa bus operators in the morning and later in the day, with North Goa operators. We will discuss and see how to move forward,” Godinho told TOI on Sunday. Kadamba Transport corporation (KTC) has been running into loss for several years now, and it is now compelled to operate its fleet at 50% capacity. “We do not know how long this will be the scene. Operations will have to be resumed with social distancing and other measures in place with the first priority being protection against the virus,” he said. “They have been known to defy rules and their one-point agenda has been to make profit. ,” commuter Samidha Khanolkar said, dubious about whether private buses would follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/transport-dept-set-to-meet-to-decide-fate-of-pvt-buses/articleshow/75524667.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 distress finds voice in Kathakali||By: Sandeep Thomas THRISSUR: Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on life like never before with lockdowns and isolation. As people struggle to cope with the new normal, lyricist A V Vasudevan Poti has written a Kathakalippadam (song) about the dreaded virus, for which mudras have been composed by former principal and present dean of Kalamandalam, Kalamandalam Balasubramanian.The Kathakalippadam describes how the Covid-19 pandemic has upended normal life and seeks divine intervention to help humans in their race to find a vaccine to fight the coronavirus. In his verses, Vasudevan Poti seeks the blessings of Dhanwanthara Moorthy (Hindu God of medicine) to help find a treatment for Covid-19. The Kathakalippadam has been sung by well-known Kathakali singer Nedumpally Ram Mohan. When Kalamandalam Balasubramanian came across the song on a WhatsApp group, he decided to compose ‘mudras’ for the concepts mentioned in it. “There were three words which were unrelated to Kathakali. They were: Covid-19, Vaidyan and Dhanwanthara Moorthy,” said Balasubramanian. “There are 24 mudras codified in the treatise, Hasta Lakshana Deepika, an ancient text followed by Kathakali artists. I created three mudras for the three words mentioned in the Kathakalipadam based on the Shukathundam Mudra,” saidBalasubramanian. “The song seeks God’s blessing in developing vaccines and treatments to fight the coronavirus. Dhanwanthara Moorthy is considered the father of medicine. He is the ultimate healer and the God who has the power to cure all diseases,” said Balasubramanian They conducted a performance with limited facilities due to lockdown restrictions and it was recorded on a mobile phone. However, it has gone viral on social media. Vasudevan Poti said it was the severity of the coronavirus pandemic that caused devastating human suffering across the world that prompted him to think about writing a Kathakalippadam about it. “The song reflects the times,” he said. “After lockdown restrictions are lifted, we are planning to conduct a Kathakali performance based on the song,” said Balasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-distress-finds-voice-in-kathakali/articleshow/75522594.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets ICMR nod to start plasma therapy, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the start of plasma therapy for critically ill Covid-19 patients from Monday. The announcement came after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permitted SMS Hospital to carry out the therapy under strict protocol. The state has been pressing for ICMR nod to use plasma therapy after it showed encouraging results in the beginning of the pandemic in the state. In a video conference, Gehlot said that the state was keen to use the therapy on coronavirus patients in critical condition as directed by the ICMR. “The state is ready to use this therapy as per the rules in the state,” he said. The doctors at SMS Medical College have been conducting research on the therapy from the start of the outbreak. Plasma therapy aims to use the antibodies of a person, who has recovered from Covid-19, on coronavirus patients who are critically ill. The team of doctors have already identified plasma donors to start the therapy. The treatment is for patients in conditions from moderate to severe. State health minister Raghu Sharma had sought ICMR's approval on April 24. Rajasthan has among the highest number of coronavirus patients in the country, but one which has the highest recovery rate too. Till Sunday, the state has reported 2,832 virus cases, with 915 discharged from hospitals. This will give the doctors a very big pool of recovered patients whose plasma can be harvested. A recovered patient can donate plasma once a week for four weeks. Menawhile, to speed up Covid-19 testing in the state, Gehlot has imported two machines with a capacity to test 4,000 samples at a time from the US. The government has also decided to purchase RNA test kits themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-gets-icmr-nod-to-start-plasma-therapy-says-gehlot/articleshow/75524513.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Over 4k in dist without any means to travel back home||Nagpur: If migrant workers from shelter homes are being ferried to their homes in trains and buses, there is another segment of stranded persons hoping the government would transport them back home.There are over 4,000 persons in Nagpur district alone who have applied online but do not have any means of transport for going back. They have requested the government to make arrangement, but even the authorities are not in a position to help at this moment, said sources.There are two types of stranded persons. The first are the labourers who began walking to their homes in different states and are now living in shelter homes. Second category are those people who had come down to Nagpur and were held up due to the lockdown.These persons had reached Nagpur through public transport, and now have no means to go back as trains, buses, or airways remain to be closed.“The latter have to make online applications on the basis of which e-passes will be issued for their transit,” district collector Ravindra Thakare said.Thakare said that out of the total applications received online, there are 4,200 applicants who have mentioned that they have no means to travel back. They have requested the government to make arrangements.After the initial chaos settled, it was also found that in some of the cases same persons had made more than a single application. “It may be for different reasons. However after a review, the number has come down to 6,900 odd as against over 10,000 earlier,” said a source.Thakre accepted that at present there is no arrangement, though various sources are being explored. “The modalities are being discussed with the state transport corporation too, however, nothing has been finalized,” he said.The cases will be taken up for approval from May 5, as priority will be given to migrant workers.The movement will be allowed only after the getting an approval from the district collector concerned of the receiving state.As the migrant workers being transported through trains are being charged a fee of around Rs300 depending on the distance, there are many who are not in a position to pay. For them some of the NGOs may be approached to sponsor their travel, said a source in the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-4k-in-dist-without-any-means-to-travel-back-home/articleshow/75524091.cms||Shishir Arya
May 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: KTC buses, taxis & pilots to get into gear today||PANAJI: The state is restarting the operation of Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd buses with up to 50% capacity from Monday for the use of all citizens. Until now, the bus service was operational only for government employees. Only interstate buses are suspended except for the transportation of migrant workers, transport director Rajan Satardekar said. Buses can ply only between 7am and 7pm. So, the last bus will have to leave for a destination by 5.30pm. Taxis have been allowed to operate, but their main customers travel from the airport to hotels and vice-versa. The local usage is only 20-25%, sources said. Rent-a-bike and rent-a-car services that largely depend on tourists have also been allowed to operate. Motorcycle pilots will also resume services from Monday. “We were eagerly awaiting the thumbs up from the transport department,” motorcycle pilot Suresh Vernekar said. Ferries are already plying with bare minimum fleet since the frequency of commuters is low owing to the lockdown. Ferry crew will ensure social distancing is maintained aboard the vessel. Only limited number of passengers will be permitted during each commute, captain of ports James Braganza said. “With the resumption of transport, we will see about 80% return to normalcy. The only thing missing will be the buzz in vehicular movement due to lack of tourists in the state,” Satardekar said. Private bus operators however are still in two minds on resuming services. Owing to the 50% passenger limit, they’re worried they won’t be compensated through the existing bus fare. The number of trips per day will also be few due to limited operations. Private Bus Owners’ Association president Shiva Kambli said “We have to see if markets open since many people travel for shopping. We may start operating in Panaji, Mapusa and Margao if their markets are open, ,” he said. Others want to begin operations so they can pay off loans and make a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-taxis-pilots-to-get-into-gear-today/articleshow/75524669.cms||Nida Sayed
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Man gets bail, but cops to release him after testing||Granting bail to a man arrested in connection with a murder case, the high court has directed police to release him after testing and certifying that he is not affected with Covid-19. The petitioner, Sudhan, who was arrested by Kottar police in Kanyakumari, moved the Madurai bench of Madras high court seeking bail. The petitioner, who was arrayed as the first accused in the case, was remanded in judicial custody on January 20.  The counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner is in judicial custody for more than 100 days. He submitted that the person who was arrayed as the second accused was already out on bail. Citing that the investigation has been completed and charge-sheet was also filed, he sought to grant bail to the petitioner. . Justice P Velmurugan granted bail to the petitioner by imposing certain conditions. The judge directed the police to take steps to test the petitioner for Covid-19 and he shall be released only after certifying that he was not affected by Covid-19. The judge further observed that if the petitioner was tested positive for Covid-19, then he shall be kept under quarantine as per the directives of the health department.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-bail-but-cops-to-release-him-after-testing/articleshow/75524517.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Train with guest workers from Bihar to leave Alappuzha on Monday||ALAPPUZHA: Alappuzha is all set to send the interested guest workers from the district by train on Monday. Alappuzha district collector M Anjana said that the first train from the district for the guest labourers to Katihar in Bihar will start its journey from Alappuzha at 3pm on Monday. “As many as 1,140 commuters can travel on Monday via train and they need to bear the travel expenses. As per the plan prepared by the district administration, guest workers staying in Mavelikara will be brought to Alappuzha railway station in 21 KSRTC buses. At least 23 buses will be used for transporting the labourers from Ambalappuzha. As per the Covid-19 guidelines, one bus can carry 27 people,” the officials informed media. To send the interested guest workers to their native places, the district administration has collected the details of guest workers. A special team has been constituted for this purpose and they visited camps and completed the registration process. District medical office will issue medical certificates to the travellers. Food and water will also be supplied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/train-with-guest-workers-from-bihar-to-leave-alappuzha-today/articleshow/75522605.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Udaipur||No income, herders forced to abandon camels in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Camel herders in the state are finding it difficult to survive amid lockdown without any source of income. This pandemic has forced many of them to free their camels to fend for themselves as they cannot afford to care for them. Hiralal Dewasi, a camel herder from Udaipur, said since the lockdown they are not being allowed to graze their camels. “We are beaten up if we try to take camels for grazing. At home, we have no source of income. Before lockdown, camel milk was purchased by Saras dairy but now they have stopped buying it due to lack of transport facilities. We are on the verge of starvation and have to find ways to feed camels,” said Dewasi. According to the Livestock Census report 2019, camel population in the state has reached its lowest point in seven decades. As the economic viability of camel has decreased, their numbers have gone down. The government started selling camel milk to provide livelihood to herders. Camel milk is found to be very helpful for children with autism and disability. It was supplied all over the country and the demand is still there, but no way to supply it. Hanwant Singh, founder of Lokhit Pashu-Palak Sansthan, working for the conservation of camels said that he is receiving calls from all over the country for camel milk. “It is helpful for the development of children but we cannot transport it. Recently, the Centre had started a scheme to supply camel milk through train after the lockdown which was stopped after few weeks. Lockdown has severely affected the livelihood of camel herders and the government should come forward for some temporary relief,” said Singh. For the last six months, thousands of camels in the state have died due to the skin disease. The state government and Hanwant Singh’s organization have vaccinated many camels but in lockdown, the work is put on hold. Bhanwar Chaudhary, another camel herder in Barmer, said that most of the camel owners have left their animal to fend for themselves. “What are we supposed to do? In Barmer, there is no farming due to desert area. Animal husbandry is our only source of income. Camel is such a big animal and feeding them is difficult. All the animal fairs this year were called off due to pandemic. We have not earned a single penny in lockdown. Most of us have let our camels free. Either they would die of skin disease for which there is no assistance from government and if survive after the lockdown, we will look into it then,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-income-herders-forced-to-abandon-camels-in-raj/articleshow/75528908.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan labourers entering state without screening||JAIPUR: Migrant workers are entering Rajasthan from Gujarat without screening or registration, causing concern for district administrations of Dungarpur, Pali and Sirohi. Long queues at border checkpoints and the fear of quarantine are forcing migrants take alternate routes into the state via villages, forests and farmlands along the border. On record, officials have refused to admit that even a single migrant worker has entered the state without proper screening and registration. But on condition of anonymity, they have expressed concerns that hundreds of migrant workers may have already crossed the border from various Covid-19 hotspots such as Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot. “As most of them are locals, they’re not facing objection from villagers,” said a government official. “As most of them are locals, they’re not facing objection from villagers,” said a government official. Dungarpur district collector Kanha Ram told TOI that they have checkposts at all 15 entry points to ensure that no migrant worker comes into the state without screening. “If any worker manages to get through without any screening, we have mobile teams to screen them at their locations,” said Ram. Ratanpur border has become the focal point of migrant crisis in the state. Over the last five days, 36,000 migrant workers have been screened and registered and allowed to enter the state through this border. Officials are expecting the figure to cross close to two lakh in the coming days as migrants from different parts of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh head towards Ratanpur border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-labourers-entering-state-without-screening/articleshow/75524518.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||No income, herders forced to abandon camels in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Camel herders in the state are finding it difficult to survive amid lockdown without any source of income. This pandemic has forced many of them to free their camels to fend for themselves as they cannot afford to care for them. Hiralal Dewasi, a camel herder from Udaipur, said since the lockdown they are not being allowed to graze their camels. “We are beaten up if we try to take camels for grazing. At home, we have no source of income. Before lockdown, camel milk was purchased by Saras dairy but now they have stopped buying it due to lack of transport facilities. We are on the verge of starvation and have to find ways to feed camels,” said Dewasi. According to the Livestock Census report 2019, camel population in the state has reached its lowest point in seven decades. As the economic viability of camel has decreased, their numbers have gone down. The government started selling camel milk to provide livelihood to herders. Camel milk is found to be very helpful for children with autism and disability. It was supplied all over the country and the demand is still there, but no way to supply it. Hanwant Singh, founder of Lokhit Pashu-Palak Sansthan, working for the conservation of camels said that he is receiving calls from all over the country for camel milk. “It is helpful for the development of children but we cannot transport it. Recently, the Centre had started a scheme to supply camel milk through train after the lockdown which was stopped after few weeks. Lockdown has severely affected the livelihood of camel herders and the government should come forward for some temporary relief,” said Singh. For the last six months, thousands of camels in the state have died due to the skin disease. The state government and Hanwant Singh’s organization have vaccinated many camels but in lockdown, the work is put on hold. Bhanwar Chaudhary, another camel herder in Barmer, said that most of the camel owners have left their animal to fend for themselves. “What are we supposed to do? In Barmer, there is no farming due to desert area. Animal husbandry is our only source of income. Camel is such a big animal and feeding them is difficult. All the animal fairs this year were called off due to pandemic. We have not earned a single penny in lockdown. Most of us have let our camels free. Either they would die of skin disease for which there is no assistance from government and if survive after the lockdown, we will look into it then,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-income-herders-forced-to-abandon-camels-in-raj/articleshow/75524099.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Just what the doc ordered: Mile sur... to boost morale of citizens||Nagpur: While they are working as front-line soldiers in the isolation wards and treating Covid-19 patients in both the government medical colleges in the city, many doctors have come up with some motivational stuff for citizens and for all those who are risking their lives in this fight against coronavirus.Senior doctors, former and present professors, associated with the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) launched a video song ‘Mile sur mera tumhara’ on Saturday. This very popular anthem of the yesteryears has been sung by 15 doctors associated with the IGGMCH.Eye and vitreo retinal surgeon Dr Anand Pangarkar, , ophthalmologist Dr Mohan Shanware and plastic surgeon Dr Sameer Jahagirdar have produced this video. Music composer Sandeep Baraskar has provided the soundtrack.Doctors recorded their part of the song separately at their homes on this track and forwarded the same to Baraskar. They also completed the video shooting of their part at their homes and sent it to E Studios for editing and mixing. While mixing these videos, the artistes have included photographs of treating doctors, police, national and international leaders, and officials of health department and ICMR who are working tirelessly in this mission against Covid-19.The six-minute video also highlights important tips of social distancing, hand hygiene and isolation necessary during Covid-19 days.“We are music-loving doctors from IGGMCH. Through this video, we have shared a message that all of us are together in this fight against Covid-19,” said Dr Pangarkar. While IGGMCH seniors shared the message of ‘Mile sur mera tumhara,’ gynecologists in the city came out with a message of ‘Jiyo dil sey’. Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynecological Society (NOGS) president Vaidehi Marathe said this is a novel initiative in the city to spread joy, happiness and positivity in these difficult times.“Nearly 40 gynecologists in Nagpur created a 7-minute video depicting the spectrum of hobbies, passion and meaningful activities you could enjoy while staying safe at home,” she said. “Through this video, we are sending a positive message to the society that the lockdown period is all about family, good times, happy moments, laughter, recreation and fun,” she said. The video is available for circulation on the NOGS website, Facebook page, YouTube and Instagram for people to view and enjoy. This video was conceptualized and executed by Dr Marathe, coordinated by Dr Rajasi Sengupta , honorary secretary and directed by Dr Pragati Khalatkar, executive member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/just-what-the-doc-ordered-mile-sur-to-boost-morale-of-citizens/articleshow/75524097.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Ad Land: I don’t want life to return to the old normal. Here’s why||The lockdown has been hard. I get it. Our normal schedules have been disrupted, we’re spending far too less time outdoors and far too much time scraping the bottom of the binge-watching barrel. We’re gaining weight and losing our tempers. It hasn’t been fun. Which is why the one refrain I’ve heard over and over again this past month has been, “I can’t wait for things to get back to normal”. And regardless of whether or not you’re a diehard Star Wars fan like me (May The Fourth Be With Us, indeed), everyone is optimistically prepping for life to finally return to some semblance of normalcy in a few weeks. But here’s the thing: I don’t want things to return to ‘normal’. Because normal sucks. Lest you think me some sort of anarchist, allow me to explain. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of carbon monoxide-spewing traffic jams, effluent-belching factories and Chernobyl-level AQI readings. The lockdown has shown us that given some room to breathe, and despite the abuse we put it through every single day, our planet still has the strength and resilience to not just survive but thrive. Hopefully, we will come out of this with a more balanced and aware outlook, now that we’ve seen the other side. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of our regressive, factory-line approach to work where employee productivity is judged on hours spent in office rather than tangible output produced. The lockdown has finally busted the antiquated stigma around the concept of Work From Home, and has forcibly dragged our industry into the 21st century. We’re more focused, more productive and more available for work than ever before. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of the DEL-BOM-DEL (or even worse, DEL-BLR-DEL) day trip, where we spend between 16 and 20 hours commuting across the country for a two-hour meeting. Regardless of your platform of choice – Google Meet, Zoom, Microsoft Teams or Skype – technology has shown us what a colossal waste of time and money corporate travel truly is (to say nothing of its massive environmental impact). Finally, and thankfully, the age of the ‘jet setter’ is drawing to an end. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of having no personal space in public. As anyone who has ever stood in a queue in our country can attest, giving the other space isn’t exactly a priority for most Indians. Covid-19 has thrown the need for physical distancing into sharp relief, and while maintaining the mandated six-foot distance from each other may not always be practical in a nation of 1.3 billion people, we will all think twice before presumptuously pressing up against a total stranger. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of a Swachh Bharat rife with public spitting, public urination and unregulated disposal of public waste. For too long, our collective lack of civic sense has been tolerated across the country’s socio-economic strata. The pandemic has taught us that lack of sanitation is not just disgusting but also deadly. A lesson that we hopefully will not forget in a hurry. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of a world where the words ‘work-life balance’ are viewed as shorthand for ‘shirker’. For decades, India Inc. has prided itself on an intense, ‘work-is-worship’ ethos which has left little or no time for such trivialities as personal life, fitness or overall wellness. To even question the primacy of work in one’s life was to risk being labeled ‘unprofessional’, ‘lazy’ or ‘not a team player’. The lockdown has finally shown us how fundamentally interlinked our personal well-being and professional productivity are. Companies are going out of their way to ensure that employees remain emotionally engaged and physically active – even within the confines of their own homes. Emotional well-being has finally evolved from new age to necessity. And not a moment too soon. I don’t want to return to the ‘normalcy’ of weddings, religious processions or any other large public gatherings being given automatic license to disrupt traffic, sleep and life as we know it. As the past few weeks have taught us, public health takes precedence over everything else – as it no doubt should. We’ve learned to worship, wed and even tend to the death of our loved ones in smaller numbers, which has forced us to prioritise the people and things that matter over the flawed ‘the-more-the-merrier’ notion that has dominated our cultural psyche for so long. What I do want to return to is a ‘new normal’ where the world is cleaner and healthier, and we are kinder and more considerate – to our planet, to each other and to ourselves. To paraphrase Rabindranath Tagore, “Into that heaven of normalcy, my Father, let my country awake”. (The author is National Planning Director, FCB Ulka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ad-land-i-dont-want-life-to-return-to-the-old-normal-heres-why/articleshow/75518770.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala health department readies action plan for NRK influx||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Faced with the task of screening and monitoring thousands at every entry point post lockdown, the state health department has charted out a massive action plan, complete with temporary isolation facilities, thousands of ambulances, over 4,000 ICU beds and 2,000 ventilators and teams of doctors and paramedical staff at railway stations, airports and state borders. “It will not be as easy as screening passengers at airports. We will have to take care of railway stations, as also land borders once the lockdown is lifted and we need to be more cautious… We have already handled over 2.5 lakh people. We will handle the expected increased inflow post the lockdown as well,’’ said Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health). A team of 40 doctors (10 each over four shifts a day), junior health inspectors and nurses (72/day) and trained volunteers (160/day) will be deployed at each of the six entry points for those arriving by road. There will be two screening desks, one registration helpdesk, a guiding station and a truck screening station at each point. The Army will support the health department in setting up the temporary isolation facilities. Those with symptoms of the infection will be sent to nearby Covid centres. The facilities have been planned for 5,000 vehicles/day at each entry point. All major railway stations will also have designated isolation rooms. There will be 32 doctors (eight each in four shifts a day) on duty in each station. As many as 100 volunteers will also be deployed in border railway stations to screen passengers using thermal scanners. Unlike the state borders and railway stations, medical teams deployed at airports will be in full protective gear. As many as 24 doctors will be deployed per day in all airports in four shifts to screen passengers, apart from junior health inspectors, nurses and trained volunteers. Each airport will be equipped with facilities to screen 2,000 passengers a day. The health department has also kept over three lakh beds ready in Covid care centres in addition to 1,398 ICU beds and 112 ventilators in government hospitals and 3,212 beds and 854 ventilators in private hospitals. The department has also ensured adequate stock of RNA extraction and testing kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/health-department-readies-action-plan-for-nrk-influx/articleshow/75523555.cms||Rajiv G
May 4, 2020||Madurai||13 posing as SDM personnel held trying to enter Virudhunagar district||VIRUDHUNAGAR: The police have busted an attempt to ferry 11 people illegally into Virudhunagar district in a van with fake Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management (SDM) sticker was foiled by police officials near Srivilliputhur on Saturday. The police have registered a case against 13 people. After few people who came to Virudhunagar district from other districts tested positive for Covid-19, the Virudhunagar district administration increased vigil at all the six major entry points to the district. All the 13 were screened and placed under home quarantine. On Saturday, the police officials deployed at the check post at Alagapuri junction, near Srivilliputhur taluk in the district, stopped the van which had stickers with emblem of Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management (SDM) Authority, as if it was transporting people to create awareness. During inquiry the police officials learnt that the van driver was illegally ferrying 11 people including three women from Chennai to Virudhunagar district. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that the driver had taken money from 11 people including few employees working in the IT sector to ferry them illegally from Chennai to their native places at Srivilliputhur, Rajapalayam and Sattur in the district. “Since we have increased vigil at all the entry points, their attempt to enter the district was stopped at the officials border checkpost,” he said. “All the 12 people travelling in the van have been placed under quarantine at the Virudhunagar government hospital and samples have been collected from them, the results are awaited. If they are tested negative, they would be placed under home quarantine for 28 days and if they test positive they would be shifted to the government Rajaji hospital in Madurai district,” said Kannan. Following this incident, the Nathampatti police registered a case against 13 people including van driver Babu, a resident of Srivilliputhur, van owner Alwin, a resident of Chennai, and 11 people travelling in the van. The police officials also seized the van. They were booked under sections 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 472 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC. It is worth recalling that in April, a man from Tiruvallur district who travelled in a car with few others to Chettikuruchi in the district by obtaining travel pass by making false claims tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-posing-as-sdm-personnel-held-trying-to-enter-virudhunagar-dist/articleshow/75524521.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Allow Goa to conduct board exams: CM to HRD minister||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday spoke to Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and urged him to allow the state government to hold SSC and HSSC exams, as Goa has been classified as a green zone. Sawant explained to the minister that students in Goa are stressed because of the delay in their board examinations. The Union minister asked Sawant to write an official letter to him in this regard, detailing how the state plans to conduct the exams. During the press conference, Sawant said that he would hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the SCC and HSSC exams. Around 20,000 Class X students are waiting for the new board exam schedule to be declared. The examination was originally scheduled to begin from April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-state-to-conduct-board-exams-cm-to-hrd-minister/articleshow/75524535.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Habitual criminal held in vehicle check||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram district police have arrested a history-sheeter from near Kamuthi and seized as unlicensed rifle from him. The arrested was identified as V Vigneswaran from Ammanpatti village near Thiruchuili in Virudhunagar district. Police said that he was caught during a vehicular check at Kamuthi. At the time of inspection, police found an unlicensed rifle, following which he was taken to local police station. It came to light that he has several cases pending against him in various police stations in Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Coimbatore districts. He was involved in bike thefts, chain snatchings, robberies, house burglaries and cheating. He was booked for attempting to rape a schoolgirl. A total of 30 cases have been registered against him in various police stations in the four districts since 2015. He was detained under Goondas act by Aruppukkottai police in 2019. A higher official from Ramanathapuram district said that he along with his accomplices attacked Aruppukkottai deputy superintendent of police G Venkatesan during panchayat polling earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/habitual-criminal-held-in-vehicle-check/articleshow/75524528.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Cops bust two hooch dens in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The government’s decision to ban liquor because of the lockdown has led to a sharp spike in the sale of illicit booze with small hooch manufacuring units sprouting up in various parts of the district. Jaisalmer Sadar police busted two hooch units set up 25km away from the city in the last two days and recovered a huge quantity of the liquor. The team seized 850 litres of wash and 30 litres of hooch from one place and another 200 litres of wash and 6 litres of hooch at another location. The culprits managed to run away at both the places. SP Kiran Kung said the state government had ordered to stop the sale and transportation of illegal liquor. Sadar SHO Bhawani Singh while patrolling with his team received a tip-off that a person was making hooch 3km away from Lanela village. Kung said on getting the information, the team reached there and found smoke coming out from a unit. When they reached the spot, the person who was making hooch fled taking advantage of the bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-bust-two-hooch-dens-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75524101.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contagion creeps deeper into Ahmedabad’s west||Ahmedabad: The coronavirus has started spreading in the western part of the city, with a case reported from the posh Prestige Tower in Judges Bungalow and another from Goyal Intercity in the Thaltej ward. Cases were also reported from Sayona City near RC Technical School in Sola area. The area reported four cases on Sunday night. A case was also reported from Ravi Bungalow in Thaltej. In all, the city reported 270 fresh cases over the past 24 hours. In that period, the city’s western part recorded an increase of 46 active cases of which 22 were from areas of south west zone covering Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej and Maktampra. Twenty-one were from Navrangpura, Naranpura, Sardar Patel Stadium area, and Paldi among others. With the pandemic situation in the Walled City growing serious the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has appointed 10 senior officials, one each as in-charge for the 10 red zone wards. Each officer will evaluate cases from his ward and spot clusters with higher infection. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that despite declaration of containment or red zones, people, especially in the Walled City are not cooperating, and thus number of cases are increasing daily. So, to ensure strict lockdown the AMC has appointed 10 senior officers as in-charges of red zone wards, who’ll coordinate with police to implement lockdown. These officers will analyze case flow and guide local police in setting up checkpoints at relevant spots. The officers have been told to take help of local religious and political leaders in their respective areas to appeal to people and ensure they stay indoors. “I especially request the people of Jamalpur to follow the lockdown rules as they have the highest cases in the city and 33% of the deaths in the city are in Jamalpur ward. I also request the community to stay indoors even at night and observe Ramzan from their homes. According to guidelines no one is supposed to come out of their houses at night, after 7pm, and one can go out for essential work only during the day. I again request people to stay indoors and observe Ramzan,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contagion-creeps-deeper-into-ahmedabads-west/articleshow/75524100.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ajmer||Wildlife census in Rajasthan postponed to June||AJMER: The yearly wildlife census scheduled from May 7 throughout the state has been postponed to June 5 and 6 because of Covid-19. The state forest department collects data every year to mark the regions of habitation of particular animals. Every year, on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, the forest department conducts a 24-hour census and special areas are marked at district level where the teams sit the whole day to count animals in different forests. Usually, these spots are made near the waterholes where animals come to drink water at least once a day because of heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/wildlife-census-in-raj-postponed-to-june/articleshow/75534162.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Wildlife census in Rajasthan postponed to June||AJMER: The yearly wildlife census scheduled from May 7 throughout the state has been postponed to June 5 and 6 because of Covid-19. The state forest department collects data every year to mark the regions of habitation of particular animals. Every year, on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, the forest department conducts a 24-hour census and special areas are marked at district level where the teams sit the whole day to count animals in different forests. Usually, these spots are made near the waterholes where animals come to drink water at least once a day because of heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wildlife-census-in-raj-postponed-to-june/articleshow/75524102.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Help pours in for residents of Karumbalai slum||MADURAI: Help has arrived for around 300 families in Karumbalai, a slum adjacent to Anna Nagar in the city, a few days after an article published by The Times Of India on April 28 highlighted their plight. A few more people have expressed their willingness to help in the days to come. There are a large number of servants, servant maids, construction workers, destitutes, elderlies, transgender and hotel workers residing in Karumbalai. They are under pressure as they have run out of resources due to the lockdown. Jayapradeep Jyothis, a resident of KK Nagar, who came across their plight, got in touch with S Vicky, a social activist from Karumalai, to distribute essentials to 80 families which struggled the most. Each of the family was distributed rice, dal, cooking oil, masala power and items required for cooking. “We did not visit the streets of Karumbalai due to lockdown restrictions and instead provided the essentials to Vicky. He made sure that essentials reached the deserving,” Jayapradeep said. Anna Nagar range police too pitched in. Anna Nagar Range ACP Lilly Grace helped 150 families who were in urgent need of essentials. Neatly packed rice, vegetables and grocery items reached the deserving people. She distributed with the help of police personnel. A group of former members of Karumbalai Police Boys Club pooled in some money and have purchased 300kg of rice. It will be distributed to needy people on Monday. C Vicky, coordinator of the boys club, said that he has received around 15 phone calls from people willing to help, of which some have materialized. “Around 30 elderly people and transgenders are now getting free lunch from Madurai MP regularly for the past four days,” Vicky added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/help-pours-in-for-residents-of-karumbalai-slum/articleshow/75524536.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||Akashvani: 3 teens in team that made cops’ drones ‘talk’||Nagpur: The city police’s senior officers were speechless when they first saw their drone fly and make public announcements over a loudspeaker. The team that made it a reality had three teenagers too.Mumbai police’s hi-tech drone technology for controlling the crowd and enhancing the security arrangements at the containment areas and congested localities, like Dharavi slums, had impressed the state home minister Anil Deshmukh so much that he asked Nagpur police also to use drones here. City police had been struggling with the problem of attaching a public address system to their drones for making real time announcements. The drones were simply unable to fly with the payloads of loudspeakers or walkie-talkies during trials.Zonal DCP Neelotpal then roped in two startups, Centre for Creativity and Innovation and Cresolv Tech Pvt Ltd. Neelotpal, a mechanical engineer himself, is also the nodal officer for the city police for safe and smart city project.The newly inducted team, comprising Rushikesh Kadu (18), Nirupam Khadatkar (18), Aman Verma (17), Swapnil Challani (23), Pooja Pusdekar (25), Dinesh Dhote (26) and Ranajoy Datta (25) was mentored by Prashant Kadu and DCP Neelotpal himself. Kadu, a PhD in mechanical engineering, is the principal of Gaikwad Patil College of Engineering. Under Kadu, the team had already prepared nine drones and also earned accolades across India for their innovations. Verma, the youngest of the participants, is a Standard XI student. Kadu said the challenging part was limited resources and equipment during the lockdown but still they could develop two drones with public announcement systems. “Finding lightweight speaker during lockdown was the biggest hurdle. Another issue was the critical dynamic balancing of the drone against the payload and wind velocity,” he said.“After relentless efforts of 10-12 days, the stability of the drone was achieved by analyzing it’s centre of gravity,” said Kadu. He said the drone is now fitted with GPS technology for location monitoring. Rushikesh, preparing for JEE and nurturing a hobby in drones, automobiles and other unmanned aerial surveillance vehicles, said most parts are imported from Germany, China and some European countries. “We needed a non-magnetic speaker and that was tough to find. I had developed a 3D printed stand to fit the speaker so that it’s magnetic flux did not disturb the drone’s functioning,” he said.Khadatkar, a first year engineering student, developed the GSM circuit with a SIM in it on the drone which made it possible for the officers to make real time announcements through the drone based on the live stream from its camera. Challani, an electronics and telecommunication engineering aspirant, helped the drones serve the dual purpose of live streaming the feeds and also make real time announcements for crowd management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akashvani-3-teens-in-team-that-made-cops-drones-talk/articleshow/75524104.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Only 400 people allowed in daily via Muthanga||Kozhikode: The process of people stranded in other states returning through Wayanad’s Muthanga checkpost, one of the six notified entry points, is likely to extend over several weeks as only 400 persons will be allowed in daily through the checkpost. Around 44,871 people have registered with Norka to return to Kerala from Karnataka as on Saturday and a significant number of them from Malabar districts will be travelling through Muthanga checkpost. Wayanad district collector Dr Adeela Abdullah said that the district authorities are handling the return of those stranded in other states with extreme caution. At the entry point, the passengers will first be examined by the police and then the fire and rescue services personnel will disinfect the vehicles. Entry of stranded people from other states who have been issued entry passes will be allowed from 6am to 5pm. Four counters are being set up for medical examination of the passengers. There will be facilities for sample collection at the transit hospital set up at the checkpost. Those with symptoms will be shifted to Covid care centres and people who have been cleared will be allowed to proceed to their houses where they will have to remain in house quarantine for 14 days. “We will allow only 400 persons into the district in a day. Ten vehicles will be allowed to proceed after the testing with police escort in one hour. The vehicles will be escorted by the police till they cross the district borders at Thamarassery (to Kozhikode) or Periye (to Kannur) to ensure that the vehicles do not stop anywhere else in the district,” the collector added. She said that priority would be given to those who are coming to seek medical treatment in the state, those with physical ailments, pregnant women, those living away from children, those who had left the state for attending interviews, participating in sports, undertaking pilgrimage and tourist trips and students in the given order. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/only-400-people-allowed-in-daily-via-muthanga/articleshow/75522641.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Three officials injured in attack by arrack brewers||HYDERABAD: Three enforcement officials from Jadcherla, including an excise circle inspector, were attacked when they raided a place where illegal arrack was being brewed. Jadcherla town circle police said that the officials circle inspector Balaji, head constable Ramesh and constable Siddharth were attacked at around 1.30 am on Sunday and suffered severe injuries. They were shifted to a hospital. On Saturday night, excise officials noticed a few persons travelling on the road while inebriated. The officials came to know of the arrack unit upon probe. The prime accused, Raju Naik, and his four associates, assaulted the officials in a bid to escape. “The accused, Raju Naik, and others escaped from the place,” said police. Around 1,000 litres of ingredients used for brewing arrack were destroyed. Raju Naik is a repeated offender. A case was registered under section 332, 188 of IPC besides Disaster Management Act. Upon being reprised of the incident, excise minister V Srinivas Goud met the injured personnel and told media that PD Act will be invoked against the accused and stern action taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-officials-injured-in-attack-by-arrack-brewers/articleshow/75524144.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Plea to allow industrial work outside containment zones||MADURAI: Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditssia) has formed a Covid-19 redressal cell which has started taking up problems faced by industries post lockdown with various authorities on behalf of its members. Convener K R Gnanasambadan said they requested district collector Dr T G Vinay to ensure that movement of workers to the units outside city limits and containment zones is not restricted when the factories start functioning. As chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had instructed, factories and industries could be opened gradually and efforts should be taken in this regard in Madurai also. He said the livelihood of thousands has been affected due to the lockdown and hence the collector must consider only containment zones as `red zones’’ and allow industrial activity in other places. The industrial estates of Kappalur, Uranganpatti, Nagari and K Pudur should be allowed to function. In a petition to commissioner of police S Davidson Devasirvatham, they said the movement of workers and goods for industrial activities should not be prevented or stalled if they have valid passes. The home ministry has clarified that there is no bar on transportation of goods, essential and non-essential. The forum also made some recommendations to the Union ministry of micro small and medium enterprises. They include withdrawing notification seeking employers to pay full salary to people who have not worked even a single day. Government must give 50% of the salary and the employers would meet 25%. Arrange to pay salary of two workers for April and May from ESIC. Ministry should intensify skill development programmes under PMKVY. Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme should be strengthened and also expanded to cover the additional facilities. All new projects should be favourably considered and sanctions should be fast-tracked within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-allow-industrial-work-outside-containment-zones/articleshow/75524537.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur civic body distributes 14L food packets in 40 days||Jodhpur: In the last 40 days, Jodhpur Municipal Corporation has executed a herculean task — to fill the stomachs of hungry. It has provided over 14 lakh food packets to the needy and poor across the length and breadth of the city in the lockdown period. Officials and employees of the JMC have been engaged in this noble task right from procurement of the raw material to preparation of the food and distribution of the packets. Commissioner (JMC) Suresh Kumar Ola said it was realised that lockdown would seal the prospects of two square meals for many people in the city, mostly the daily wagers and those engaged in petty jobs. “So we set up a kitchen in the parking of JMC and started preparing food on a small level expecting mass distribution of food by many charitable and social organisations,” said Ola, adding that the teams of JMC began distributing it. But later, streamlining the work further, this kitchen was shifted to the Gaushala ground at the well-resourced kitchen of Adamya Chetna Trust to scale up production of food. “Today, we are preparing 30,000 packets per day with the help of a team of 84 people who have been monitoring all the work right from preparation to packing with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines,” said Hari Om Purohit, a district official. The procurement team’s duty is to arrange 4,500kg of flour, 35tins of cooking oil, 1,800kg potatoes, and 21kg salt and other spices per day for the 30,000 food packets to be distributed. “Besides these 30,000 packets prepared by JMC, another 15,000 food packets from donors and philanthropists are also received by us. All these packets are distributed by 25 teams with three members and a vehicle in each team,” Ola said. These teams collect the packets from the kitchen and distribute it both in the morning and evening in the assigned areas based on the survey of JMC and the information obtained on the control room or from different sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-civic-body-distributes-14l-food-packets-in-40-days/articleshow/75524098.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||6 more test positive in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: The number of Covid-19 cases in Kalaburagi district reached 61 with six people testing positive for the infection on Sunday. The six patients have been shifted to the isolation ward at the ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi. The district officers are trying to find how three patients -- a 35-year-old woman (P-609), a 78-year-old man (P-610) and a 22-year-old (P-611) – contracted coronavirus. A 13-year-old girl (P-602 and a 54-year-old man (P-603), who tested positive on Sunday, had come in contact with P-532. A 41-year-old man, who also tested positive on Sunday, was admitted to the hospital for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/6-more-test-positive-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75521938.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||Ayurvedic drug gets nod for clinical trials||KOCHI: An ayurvedic medicine, Zingivir-H tablet, used for treating respiratory infections has got approval from the Clinical Trial Registry of India (CTRI) for clinical trials on adults who have tested positive for Covid-19. CTRI comes under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The drug, developed by Kerala-based Pankajakasthuri Herbal Research, will now be tested as a potential medicine for Covid-19 in medical colleges in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayurvedic-drug-gets-nod-for-clinical-trials/articleshow/75524820.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Ex-panchayat president held for bid to swindle subsidy||MADURAI: A former panchayat president hailing from a village in Tuticorin district has been arrested on charges of forgery as he made applications with the fake signature and seal of a revenue official to swindle farm subsidy provided by the government. He had applied for seven farmers without their knowledge. While it has been a couple of weeks since the applications were filed, it came to light when the applications were scrutinized at Ottapidaram taluk office recently. Based on a complaint from VAO Marisamy, a case was registered with the Puliampatti police station against former president of Alantha village panchayat Chinnadurai. Police sources said that applications were made on behalf of seven farmers from Savalaperi village including Murugesan, Subbaiah, Sendurpandian, Chinnadurai, Arumugathai and another Murugesan. There were documents supporting their land details with the applications. Officials were startled to see the application made through E-Seva centre since the centres have been closed due to lockdown. When they called Marisamy, he told them he did not affix his signature while the farmers said they did not apply. They told officials that they simply gave away land document details to Chinnadurai, who promised to get them subsidies for cultivation. A detailed inquiry was under way to find out whether he has cheated any others before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ex-panchayat-prez-held-for-bid-to-swindle-subsidy/articleshow/75524538.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Gang of six murders 35-year-old man||MADURAI: A six-member gang allegedly murdered a 35-year-old man from Virattipathu on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as P Kannan, Muthuthevar Colony, Theni Main Road at Viratipathu. He was staying with his mother P Vijaya, 55, wife and a girl child. According to police, Kannan met with a road accident near Nagamalai Pudukottai while driving his bike a few years ago. The accident left his friend Ananth, who was pillion riding, to limp rest of his life. Ananth had developed an enmity towards Kannan as he believed that he was responsible for the accident. A few minor disputes occurred between the two in the past. On Sunday, Ananth along with his bothers and friends surrounded Kannan in a coconut grove in the neighbouring Achampathu village. Kannan had gone there for work along with his mother. Armed with lethal weapons, the gang attacked him. Kannan suffered multiple cut and stab injuries and died on the spot. The mother and the owner of the grove could only watch the gang attacking Kannan, police said. Based on a complaint from Vijaya, a case was registered with the SS Colony police against Ananth, his brothers Sathees and Aravind, friends Anbusiva, Vijay and Sathishpandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-of-six-murders-35-yr-old-man/articleshow/75524541.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Two Tasmac staff among 4 held for liquor smuggling||Madurai: Virudhunagar district police arrested four people including two employees of a Tasmac outlet for smuggling liquor bottles in a car at Virudhunagar on Saturday. Following the directive of the Madras high court, all the Tasmac shops across the state remained closed on Saturday. On Saturday, police officials received information that liquor is being smuggled illegally from a Tasmac shop, which is situated on Malaipettai Street at Virudhunagar. A team of police officials rushed to the spot and searched the car. During the search, they found that the supervisor of the Tasmac shop, Ganesh, 47, salesman Manikandan, 50, along with two others Sundar, 28, and Suryaprakash, 21, were smuggling liquor bottles illegally from the Tasmac shop. Virudhunagar West police arrested the four men and seized the car along with 157 bottles of liquor. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-tasmac-staff-among-4-held-for-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75665311.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vadodara||Anand Covid-free for third day in row||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand is counting its blessings in days. For the third consecutive day on Sunday, the district remained Covid free with not a single positive case being reported from anywhere till the evening. The district, which so far has recorded 79 positive cases, has already been put in the red zone. However, the district registered its sixth death from the infection when a 63-year-old man succumbed to the virus. But on a happier note, a 20-year-old patient got discharged. The deceased, who was admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, was a resident of Mirkui Vado area of Khambhat, coastal town of Anand district, which alone has seen 62 positive cases. In fact, his repeat test for Covid had turned out to be negative on Sunday. But before he could recover, he passed away from other complications including hypertension. The 20-year-old youth who got discharged is a resident of Khambhat’s Kadiya pole area. With this, the total number of patients who have been discharged so far, have reached 35. Meanwhile, Dr N G Parmar, in-charge of COVID Care Centre started at Samras hostel campus, Bakrol informed that in the last three weeks, a total of 115 patients who were kept at the government quarantine facility have been discharged, while 68 are presently under quarantine. The district now has 37 active cases, of which 15 are being treated at civil hospital, Anand, 21 at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one patient is admitted at S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. Five patients are on oxygen support, while condition of 32 others is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-covid-free-for-third-day-in-row/articleshow/75522884.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Pregnant woman tests positive||Hubballi: A 23-year-old pregnant woman (P-607) from Badami in Bagalkot district tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. She went to a private hospital in Sattur for check-up on May 1. The doctors there referred her to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital in Hubballi as she had fever and cough. The state bulletin said the five-month pregnant woman has Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Sources in KIMS said she visited the gynaecology and medicine departments of the hospital on May 1 and 2 before being shifted to the Covid ward. The staff of these departments who came in contact with her have been quarantined. Their throat swab samples have been sent for testing. The Bagalkot district administration is trying to trace the source of her infection. She has no travel history or known incident of coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pregnant-woman-tests-positive/articleshow/75521963.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 bridges closed as cases go up||Ahmedabad: The AMC has included Maninagar ward in the list of red zones. With this, the city now has 10 wards in the red zone. These are Dariapur, Shahpur, Danilimda, Jamalpur, Saraspur, Gomtipur, Behrampura, Khadia, Asarwa and Maningar. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Sunday that five bridges — Dadhichi Bridge, Gandhi Bridge, Nehru Bridge, Sardar Bridge and Ambedkar Bridge — connecting the eastern and the western parts will now be closed for traffic. He said that the traffic movement will be permitted only on Subhash Bridge and Ellis Bridge and this will be for people engaged in essential services. Officials said that these two bridges have also been barricaded and police are deployed there to check and scan those moving across the bridge. The officials said that the decision was taken after witnessing spike in cases in the western part of the city and in the Walled City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-bridges-closed-as-cases-go-up/articleshow/75524127.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Indore||Cos stare at manpower shortage||Indore: As industries are prepping to resume operations under relaxed norms aimed at boosting industrial health, a likely shortage of unskilled workers has posed as a major challenge. Mass migration of workers from cities to native villages since the announcement of lockdown is seen creating a vacuum of non-technical and unskilled workers in industries unlikely to be filled soon, said industry bodies and trade unions. State government has relaxed norms for industries located outside containment areas to give a thrust to industries baffled by nation-wide lockdown but easing guidelines may not compensate the loss of migratory workers, industries heavily dependent on. Gautam Kothari, president, Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan said, “When industries are gradually starting operations and would steadily increase capacity utilisations, government is sending migratory workers to their native villages. Availability of unskilled, semi-skilled and casual workers is going to be a major challenge for industries in coming months.” In Pithampur, states largest industrial belt contributing about 90 per cent of the total revenues generated by industrial belts in the state, around 70,000 migratory workers are engaged in various companies, according to the industry association. An industrialist from Pithampur wishing anonymity said, “In near term, workers are not an issue because we are asked to operate with skeleton staff but what about after a month when lockdown goes off. Lack of proper planning and execution led to massive migration of workers from across the states and this would adversely hit industries and their production capacities.” Industries said they fear an indefinite delay in resuming work in a full-fledged manner after lockdown due to migration of workers on a massive scale. Many said they anticipate a rise in cost of operations and need to train fresh workers to resume operations. Ajay Goswami, Dewas district president, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh said, “The circumstances in which workers have moved along with their families and had to travel on foot for days to reach their natives, it is unlikely they or their families would allow them to be back to cities for work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cos-stare-at-manpower-shortage/articleshow/75524131.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Madura College ground market stands out in hygiene, social distancing||MADURAI: Though there are 35 markets functioning on school and college grounds in the city, the one on the Madura College ground stands out. Compared to other markets, the number of people visiting the market is more, still it is way better than other markets in maintaining the social distancing and hygiene norms, say residents. Madurai Corporation had closed down the central vegetable market for retail sales and decentralized it in order to manage crowds in a better way. The effort is yielding results. At a time when markets have become hotspots and traders, workers and customers who visit markets test positive for Covid-19, there has not been a case linked to vegetable markets in Madurai city so far. A health official from the corporation said that the cooperation of people has helped them maintain social distancing and hygiene at Madura College ground market. “We have kept water and soap for people to wash their hands. A team is continuously monitoring and reminding people about social distancing norms. People are very much cooperating,” he said. He said that vast space available on the ground also helps in a way. Traders take responsibility of keeping safe distance between each of their customer. There are 120 shops, visited by hundreds of people from various places including Jaihindpuram, MK Puram, Subramaniyapuram and Thideer Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madura-college-ground-mkt-stands-out-in-hygiene-social-distancing/articleshow/75524545.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Agra||Ambedkar University professor, resident doc test Covid-19 positive||AGRA: A senior professor of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University and a resident doctor of SN Medical College tested Covid-19 positive in Agra on Sunday. At least 53 more cases were confirmed by the district administration till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 603. On an average, two positive cases have surfaced in every 45 in the past three days. Besides, one person out of 10 is being tested positive. Meanwhile, nine more people recovered and discharged from hospital. Moreover, two constables of Kotwali police station and 12 vegetable sellers were also found positive. Besides the professor and resident doctor, a 27-year-old pregnant woman was tested positive. She was asked by a private hospital for Covid-19 test report before treatment. The localities from where new cases were reported on Sunday included Soron Katra, Durga Colony, Sadar Bhatti, Kotwali, Gobar Choki in Tajganj locality, Narayach, Kachahri Ghat, Chhipitola, Wazirpura, Mahaveer Nagar, Ajit Nagar, Kanchan garden colony, Shahganj, Bodla, Devri road, Telipara and Peer Kalyani. Chief medical officer, Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to the health department, out of the 603 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 105 cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts while 100 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway 2. Another, 28 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in the Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 60 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts, while 26 cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 146 people have been cured of the infection and discharged."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ambedkar-univ-professor-resident-doc-test-covid-ve/articleshow/75522670.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 4, 2020||Goa||Margao, Mapusa mkts to open today||Margao/Mapusa: After six weeks’ closure, the Margao Municipal Council’s two markets – the new market and the Gandhi market – will reopen from Monday, but at 50% strength. “We have put in place a simple yet effective system to ensure that only half the number of shops are open on any given day. One side of each lane is marked in yellow and the other in white so that the shopkeepers know that when the shops lying within the yellow coloured line are open, those on the opposite white coloured line should be closed,” MMC chief officer Ajit Panchwadkar said. The markets, which were recently sanitised, will remain open from 9am to 7pm In Mapusa, only 50% of the shops in the municipal market will open but vendors will not be allowed. The fish market will continue to stay shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-mapusa-mkts-to-open-today/articleshow/75524549.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Disability fails to deter him from working at Jodhpur Covid-19 hotspot||JODHPUR: Thirty-year-old Kaluram Bhati is an inspiration to all corona workers in the place of his work, which has been identified as a hotspot. An accountant and data entry operator at a primary health centre (PHC) in Kalal Colony, Kaluram, who who despite being differently abled, continues to serve reflecting his indomitable spirit. Living away from his parents, the eldest of three siblings, Kaluram, begins work at 9am knowing well that there is no saying when the day will wrap up. He prepares the teams comprising a nurse and a BLO for survey, readies the line list of all samples taken in his area and shares it with the administration. “Based on the report of the survey teams, I set up the sampling centre as per the convenience of the residents so that they can come and give their samples,” said Kaluram. It is not merely a desk job that he does sitting comfortably on his chair in a safe room. “The most difficult aspect of the entire exercise is to convince people to come to the centre and give their samples,” he said. Kaluram said he personally visits the narrow streets of the areas and talks to people to convince them to cooperate with the survey and medical teams by clarifying their confusions and describing to them the consequences of ignoring the infection. “Earlier, it was a herculean task. But gradually people have started understanding,” he said. “I have been working here since 2018, so people know me. That helps a lot,” he added. Kaluram admits that in the beginning, he was not so forthcoming in continuing with the duty amid the outbreak with the area being declared a hotspot. Going on leave did seem a safer and easier option. “Then I realized that if everybody would begin to think like me, who would be there to work? So I decided to proceed with whatever duty was given to me,” he said. Kaluram had also been advised by his parents back in Bhopalgarh, his native place, to take leave and come home. “We had asked him to take leave considering the fear of coronavirus and his physical condition. But he insisted that he would continue the work as a service to the nation,” said his father Rameshwar Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/disability-fails-to-deter-him-from-working-at-jodhpur-covid-hotspot/articleshow/75524126.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Disability fails to deter him from working at Jodhpur Covid-19 hotspot||JODHPUR: Thirty-year-old Kaluram Bhati is an inspiration to all corona workers in the place of his work, which has been identified as a hotspot. An accountant and data entry operator at a primary health centre (PHC) in Kalal Colony, Kaluram, who who despite being differently abled, continues to serve reflecting his indomitable spirit. Living away from his parents, the eldest of three siblings, Kaluram, begins work at 9am knowing well that there is no saying when the day will wrap up. He prepares the teams comprising a nurse and a BLO for survey, readies the line list of all samples taken in his area and shares it with the administration. “Based on the report of the survey teams, I set up the sampling centre as per the convenience of the residents so that they can come and give their samples,” said Kaluram. It is not merely a desk job that he does sitting comfortably on his chair in a safe room. “The most difficult aspect of the entire exercise is to convince people to come to the centre and give their samples,” he said. Kaluram said he personally visits the narrow streets of the areas and talks to people to convince them to cooperate with the survey and medical teams by clarifying their confusions and describing to them the consequences of ignoring the infection. “Earlier, it was a herculean task. But gradually people have started understanding,” he said. “I have been working here since 2018, so people know me. That helps a lot,” he added. Kaluram admits that in the beginning, he was not so forthcoming in continuing with the duty amid the outbreak with the area being declared a hotspot. Going on leave did seem a safer and easier option. “Then I realized that if everybody would begin to think like me, who would be there to work? So I decided to proceed with whatever duty was given to me,” he said. Kaluram had also been advised by his parents back in Bhopalgarh, his native place, to take leave and come home. “We had asked him to take leave considering the fear of coronavirus and his physical condition. But he insisted that he would continue the work as a service to the nation,” said his father Rameshwar Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/disability-fails-to-deter-him-from-working-at-jodhpur-covid-hotspot/articleshow/75528827.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||No govt breather for firms over full April wages to employees||Jaipur: The state government has not issued any order or clarification on last week’s advisory to give owners of factories and establishments some relief on full payment of April salary to their employees. But a senior labour department official hinted that workers should be paid enough money to sustain themselves and meet immediate requirements. Labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said employees don’t have money to manage themselves and should be paid enough to tide over the day-to-day requirements. However, no order has been issued in this regard. Employers have already expressed their inability to pay the full month’s salary and have also written to the chief minister explaining how their businesses have collapsed due to the 40-day long lockdown. However, as the pay day approaches, they have said they are open to provide subsistence assistance to the workers to meet their day-to-day expenses. It seems the government is also not insisting on full salary. Some in the labour department also said that the advisory issued by the industry department on April 29 is just an advisory and will not have any legal consequences. But all eyes are on the Supreme Court, which is set to pronounce a judgement on the issue on a petition filed by Ludhiana-based industrial association. TOI spoke to several industrial associations and they said that they will give 30-50% of April salary to the workers. “Factories having urgent need of labour may give more, but the general consensus is giving about 30-50% of the April salary,” said a factory owner. A section of factory owners said by issuing such advisories, the government is reaching out to the workers for political gains while creating distrust between the employer and the workers. “We need labourers to run our operations in the factory. There is a trust that exists between the workers and the employers. But such advisories drive a wedge. The workers think it is the factory owners who are coming forward to hand hold them in this crisis, whereas the government understands the financial condition of MSMEs after the 40-day lockdown,” said a handicraft maker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-govt-breather-for-firms-over-full-april-wages-to-employees/articleshow/75524137.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Yerawada hostel building declared as temporary jail||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram issued an order to temporarily acquire a girls hostel building near the Yerawada Central Jail and declared it a makeshift prison for the newly arrested persons, who are referred by courts to judicial custody remand following their term in police custody. Additional director general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand had requested the collector the same, citing the need for an independent isolation facility for new inmates. The prison authorities said an independent isolation facility close to the jail premises was required to ensure there was no spread of the Covid-19 inside the main jail complex. The state prisons department had imposed a lockdown in Yerawada and four other major jails on April 7. An official release by the district collector stated the Pune police would provide round-the-clock security to the temporary jail facility, while a prison officer and a clerk from the prisons department would man the office of the makeshift jail. As of now, those arrested and referred by the courts to judicial or magisterial custody, are being taking to smaller prisons in adjoining districts such as Satara. These district prisons have quarantine facilities near them. Ramanand told TOI, “At the temporary jail, the district health officials will collect their swab samples. Those who test positive for the virus, will be sent to institutional quarantine or a hospital for further treatment. Those who test negative will have to undergo 14-day quarantine at the makeshift facility before they are shifted to the main prison premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/yerawada-hostel-building-declared-as-temporary-jail/articleshow/75524690.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||JMC passes for vegetable vendors soon||Jaipur: After few vegetable vendors were tested positive for coronavirus, the district administration has asked the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to issue route passes to them. Apart from such vendors, the civic body has been asked to control the movement of rickshaw-pullers too. Now, the JMC will initiate the process to identify vendors and rickshaw-pullers in every ward. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We will give passes to the vendors and rickshaw-pullers ward wise. We want to control the number of vendors that are increasing as most of the street vendors are now selling vegetables. These vendors roam around the city raising the risk of spreading the virus. With passes, there will be some rules and regulations to be followed.” JMC will give passes as per earlier arrangements with 91 wards. Garg said that they are planning to give 12 passes in ward to the vegetable vendors and another five to seven to the rickshaw-pullers. No one would be allowed to move out of their permitted routes and if anyone found violating the rules, his permit will be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-passes-for-vegetable-vendors-soon/articleshow/75524132.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Day temperature in Pune to hover around 40 degree Celsius, says IMD||PUNE: The India Metrological Department on Sunday said the city’s day temperature would hover around 40°C for the next few days. It also predicted that there would not be thunder activity and chances of rainfall were less. “Movement of westerly and north westerly wind will bring moisture from the Arabian Sea over Pune district. The increase in moisture-level and high temperature will give more humid temperature experiences in the city. The real feel temperature would be around 40 to 43°C for the next few days,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD Pune’s forecast division, said. The night temperature will hover around 22°C, the met department said. “The early hours of the morning would be pleasant because of the presence of northerly wind components in the atmosphere,” Kashyapi said. This summer, the day temperature has been 40°C in the city only on two days, so far. The farmers can take out their harvest safely as there is no rainfall over the district, the met official said. “There will be rainfall only if local instability occurs in the atmosphere over the district,” the official said. On Sunday, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 39.3°C and 41.1°C, which were above normal by 1.6 degrees and 3.1 degrees respectively. According to the latest Extended Range Forecast issued by the IMD, the day temperature during May was likely to remain higher than normal over central, west and northern India. In its summer season forecast, the IMD had predicted frequent and intense spells of heatwaves along these regions during May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-temperature-to-hover-around-40c-says-imd/articleshow/75524689.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune, Mumbai returnees test Covid-19 +ve in Satara||Kolhapur: Two new Covid-19 cases were reported in Satara district on Sunday, taking the tally of positive patients to 119. While one of the patient is a 23-year-old man who has history of travelling from Mumbai, the other patient is a 36-year-old man who has a travel history from Pune. Both the patients were admitted to the isolation ward on May 8. Officials from the district administration stated that a 50-year-old cancer patient from Satara, who recently travelled to Pune for treatment, has also tested positive for the contagion. Of the 119 positive cases in Satara, 97 are active cases. While two people have died of the infection, 20 people have recovered. Meanwhile, considering the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in Karad, which accounts for 80 of the 119 cases in Satara district, Pune divisional commissioner Dipak Mhaisekar said that an alternate Covid care centre would be set up in Karad. which would look after asymptomatic non-critical patients  Krishna Medical College already, which has been designated as the nodal Covid care centre, has ample facilities to treat the critical patients. The non-critical or semi-critical patients will be transferred and treated at the alternate Covid care centre. Mhaisekar said that the doubling rate of the contagion in Satara district stood at 6.35 days, which needs to be increased to 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pune-mumbai-returnees-test-covid-19-ve-in-satara/articleshow/75664753.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 4, 2020||Agra||Aligarh youth commits suicide, allegedly from depression due to lockdown||Agra: Mohammad Haidar (22), who worked at Allana meat factory, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his house in Aligarh on Sunday. He was depressed from the ongoing lockdown and feared of losing his job and salary for this month, said family members. Haidar’s maternal uncle Mohammed Rashid said he was the only son of his parents, and that his father had passed away years ago. Since then, he was staying with his widowed mother. Rashid said he was repeatedly telling his mother of not getting salary due to the lockdown. On Sunday morning, when Haidar did not come out of his room, his married sister, who had come home during Ramadan, went to his room to find it was locked from inside. She knocked the door several times, but he did not respond. She then jumped to the terrace of the neighbouring house to check through the window and found him hanging. She immediately informed her mother and police. Civil Lines police reached the spot and after completing formalities, sent the body for postmortem. A former Samajwadi Party MLA from Aligarh, Haji Zameerullah Khan, also reached their home and said the youth was upset due to the lockdown. He said, “When the lockdown was extended till May 17, he became more depressed and took the extreme step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-youth-commits-suicide-allegedly-from-depression-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75522678.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||NGO urges TN govt to bear travel expense of guest workers||MADURAI: The government should refrain from charging train fares from the migrant workers who have been stranded in other states and want to return to their hometowns, said People’s Watch Tamil Nadu. Asking the stranded workers to pay train fare is unacceptable. The railway board has announced additional Rs 50 for sleeper class to be collected from the passengers. There are more than10 lakh stranded migrant workers in almost all districts of Tamil Nadu and more than 50% of them are in Chennai and surrounding areas such as Thiruvallur, Ranipet, Kancheepuram and Chingleput. Almost all of them have suffered loss of livelihood and have been struggling without income for the last 40 days. Except for the around 2 lakh migrant workers in the 38,000 relief camps run by the state government, a miniscule proportion of the total population of migrant workers, meeting basic necessities of cooked and hygienic food has been an uphill task for the rest. In this context, as they want to go back to their families, the state must facilitate this at its own cost. While a whole set of existing labour laws were not enforced even prior to the lockdown such as the Interstate Migrants Act, the Contract Act, the Minimum Wages Act by the Tamil Nadu Labor Department, it is a disgrace that the government wants the guest labourers to bear their travel expenses. Section 15 of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act -1979 allows for journey allowance. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the guest workers reach their homes safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-urges-state-govt-to-bear-travel-expense-of-guest-workers/articleshow/75524546.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Goodbye B’luru, we’ve had enough’||Bengaluru: M Yesuraj, 11, was scrambling to get a bus to Yadgir. He reached platform No 14 at the BMTC bus stand in Majestic, Bengaluru, only to find there were already 30 passengers waiting there. The boy then began running around to find the next group headed to Yagdir where his parents are. With free KSRTC finally making travel free, hundreds gathered at Majestic bus terminus, some as early as 5am, to return home. Some had even arrived the previous night and slept on the pavements nearby, to ensure they did not lose out on the change to escape hunger and uncertainty that has assailed them for the past 40-odd days. To ensure social distancing, officials allowed only 30 passengers per bus. One member was asked to fill a form with 29 other passengers. “I’m heading to Yadgir so I need to find a group going there,” said Yesuraj, who jostled with adults to ensure passage. Yesuraj studies in a residential school in Bengaluru and his farmer parents, Mariappa and Lalitha, have been waiting for him to return to Shahpur taluk. Chidananda and Shantabhai with their sons Vishnu, 3, and Vijay, 1, had arrived at the terminus at the crack of dawn. In the afternoon, they were yet to find a group to head to their home in Muddebihal taluk, Vijayapura district. “We haven’t had a decent meal in days. We don’t have the energy to push and shove,” said Chidananda, an excavator operator, who lost his job. Left penniless after the lockdown, he and his family had to vacate their rented room. “Some volunteers here gave us a nice meal and my boys are happy.” Construction workers Subhan and Hemantha and their families, totalling 15 and with the eldest being Imanbi Safiya, 90, were excited to have made it to a 30-member group bound for Chitradurga. “We are heading to our native place in Hosadurga taluk. A big goodbye to Bengaluru. We suffered enough and were reduced to beggars,” said Suban, as he helped his family board the bus. Volunteers distributed food and drink, while some politicians watched it like a spectacle. By late afternoon, many migrant families had managed to find their bus back home. Dr Shobha, a BBMP medical officer monitoring the exodus, said, “Passengers were screened and those recording temperature above 39-degree Celsius were asked to stay back for further medical examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/goodbye-bluru-weve-had-enough/articleshow/75523926.cms||Petlee Peter
May 4, 2020||India||Rlys seeks fare for spl trains from states, oppn slams govt||NEW DELHI: Several opposition members on Sunday slammed the Indian Railways for asking state governments to pay for tickets of stranded migrants transported by Shramik Special trains after “collecting the ticket fare”, urging the Centre not to put extra burden on states and the already stressed passengers. Though railway officials did not respond to queries to clear the air formally, sources said it was up to the sending state to decide how it pays the ticket amount to the railways for identified persons. The standard operating procedure issued by the railways said, “The local state government authority shall hand over the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to railways.” “If you are stuck abroad during this COVID crisis this government will fly you back for free but if you are a migrant worker stranded in another state be prepared to cough up the cost of travel. Where did “PM Cares” go?” tweeted NC’s Omar Abdullah. SP’s Akhilesh Singh Yadav termed the move as “highly shameful”. Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut also said the central government should have paid for their tickets from PM CARES Fund. Earlier Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had urged the Centre to reconsider its decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rlys-seeks-fare-for-spl-trains-from-states-oppn-slams-govt/articleshow/75524824.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||70% cases, deaths from 10 hotspots||Ahmedabad: Of the total 3,523 cases reported in Ahmedabad till May 2, 70% were from the 10 hotspots of the city. Also, of the total 183 deaths in the city till May 3, 130 have been reported from the hotspots. Officials said that so far, 98 deaths have been reported from Khadia, Jamalpur, Asarwa, Dariapur, and Shahpur. Jamalpur alone accounts for 69 deaths — the highest in any ward of the city. Twenty-five deaths were from Khadia and Dariapur. The cases in Asarwa, as compared to April 19 when the city saw a Covid spike, increased by nearly 770%. In Saraspur, the increase was by 580%; and in Maninagar, it was by 288%. Meanwhile, cases in the six wards under curfew also increased dramatically — by 207% in Jamalpur, 197% in Danilimda, 193% in Khadia, 460% in Shahpur, and 96% in Behrampura. Only in Dariapur was the rise modest, 58%. Micro-zoning in Walled City Officials said that to ensure that people stay indoors, the AMC is preparing a micro-zoning plan in Jamalpur and Khadia where cases are increasing. The officials said that more police staff will be deployed in these areas. The officials will have more check posts to stop internal movement. The AMC is planning to take adequate measures to protect the staff deployed in these high-risk areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-cases-deaths-from-10-hotspots/articleshow/75524158.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Several Bopal societies in containment zone||AHMEDABAD: Several residential societies in Bopal are in the grip of the Covid-19 scare as a cashier of a leading provision store in the area has tested positive for the virus. The cashier used to work at night at a hospital. Messages have begun doing rounds that all those who have been to the store over the past three days are to report for tests. Roughly 200 people were issued tokens from the store. In all, Bopal area has reported 13 new cases of the 46 registered in Ahmedabad district. Bopal-Ghuma nagapalika president Jigna Shah told TOI, “The employee of the store has not been reporting for work for the past three days.” A number of residential societies in Bopal have been declared containment areas by the district collectorate. These residential societies include Iscon Platinum, Prashanti Homes, Sagarika Apartments, Bhagwati Krupa, Madan Mohan Bungalows, Anand Bungalows, Shiv Krupa, Kamleshwar, Yash Row Houses, Shagun, Moral, Kadam Flat and Paramdham Flats. A total of 2,511 houses with a population of 9,284 will be included in the containment zones. A statement issued by the collectorate said that 3,266 houses with a population of 11,883 will be in the buffer zone. Apart from Bopal, the collectorate has also placed certain parts of Jetalpur, Bareja, Ode, Vaach, Kathwada, Gatrad, Dholka, Changodar and Mankol under containment zones. Daskroi taluka has reported the highest number of cases, 35, till date. Sanand taluka has reported 5 cases, Bavla has reported 2, while Dehgam, Viramgam, Mandak, Dhandhuka, and Dholka have reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/several-bopal-societies-in-containment/articleshow/75524159.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Religious heads come together to pray for world||Kochi: Sanskrit hymns, Christian prayers and Arabic chants were broadcast one after another through digital media on Sunday afternoon as religious leaders came together for a joint prayer to overcome Covid-19 pandemic. Leaders of almost all Christian denominations, Imams, Muftis, Hindu scholars, sadhus and sanyasis were among those who prayed for the world. Swami Chidanandapuri, head of Advaithashramam Kozhikode; Swami Sadbhavananda, head of Sri Ramakrishna Mutt, Puranattukara, Thrissur; Swami Vishuddhananda of Sivagiri Mutt; Sreemadh Vasudevananda Brahmananda Bhoothi, head of Thekkemadom, Thrissur; and Sreemadh Achyuta Bharathikal of Naduvil Madom, Thrissur, conducted the Hindu prayers. Representing Islam, Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliar, chief Imam of Kozhikode Palayam Juma Masjid Dr Husain Madavoor and Imam of Palayam mosque in Thiruvananthapuram V P Suhaib Maulavi conducted the prayers. Mar George Cardinal Alencherry, Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church; Cardinal Baselios Mar Cleemis, Major Archbishop of Syro-Malankara Catholic Church; Baselios Marthoma II Catholicos, head of Orthodox Church; Bishop Joseph Kariyil of Latin Catholic Church; Joseph Mar Gregorios, trustee of Jacobite Church; Joseph Marthoma Metropolitan, head of Marthoma Church; Bishop Dharmaraj Rasalam, moderator of CSI Church; and Mar Aprem, Metropolitan of the East Syrian Church, Thrissur; were the leaders of the Christian denominations that joined the prayers. Sreemadh Vasudevananda Brahmananda Bhoothi chanted ‘Loka Samastha Sukhino Bhavanthu’ as his prayer. “It is a time when not only sanyasis but also everyone around the world are deep in prayers to overcome this calamity. Through this prayer, we plead that good happens to everyone and everyone stay together in peace,” said Brahmananda Bhoothi in the video telecasted at 3.3 pm on Sunday. Chief imam of Kozhikode Palayam Juma Masjid Dr Husain Madavoor in the video said prayer was not the only responsibility of the faithful. “Pray well and at the same time search for good treatment. We should understand and follow the directions of the government and health workers who are involved in preventive activities,” he said. Cardinal George Alencherry thanked the religious leaders for coming together to pray for the world at such a critical juncture. The 45-minute video was recorded at various locations in the state, edited, compiled and aired at 3.30pm on Sunday through YouTube channels of religious institutions apart from TV channels. The religious leaders had earlier given out a call to observe this Sunday as a prayer day. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/religious-heads-come-together-to-pray-for-world/articleshow/75523638.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Sharma always believed in leading troops by example||JAIPUR: Indian Army’s motto ‘Service before Self’ is not just a saying, but was a way of life for Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles, who was killed during a counter-terrorism operation at Handwara in J&K on Saturday. He, along with four others, was killed when they undertook an operation to rescue civilians who had been taken hostage by terrorists. His mortal remains will be brought here on Monday. The 45-year-old officer was commissioned in 19 Guards in 2001 after graduating from Officers Training Academy in Chennai. Passionate about olive greens, Sharma always believed in leading troops by example. His wife Pallavi Sharma told TOI, “I do not want to hear that people are sorry about his death. He took a conscious decision to do his duty and I am extremely proud of him. He always took part in most operations and led from the front.” The highly decorated officer received two Sena Medals during his tenure in the Valley of over four years. He took over the command of 21 RR nearly two years ago and was the second-in-command of the same prior to that. Giving an instance of his commitment to the Army, his wife added, “The last time he came on leave was on Holi in March 2019 when he surprised us. He could not have taken leave, but he was involved in army operations which were going on in Kashmir.” Although from Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh, the officer’s family was staying in Jaipur for 16 years. Knowing her husband for nearly 20 years with a courtship period of four years and married for 16 years, Pallavi had an inkling that something was amiss when she received no reply to her messages from him and said, “I spoke to him on May 1 and before going for the operation that he might be away for 2-3 days. On Saturday, I messaged asking if he had eaten lunch, but received no reply. I did not try to call him as he might be in middle of something. There was some news trickling on social media about a CO missing and the Handwara operation. I saw it later, but by then I had a feeling that something was wrong.” Sharma is survived by wife, daughter and parents. This was not the first time that Sharma had been a part of an operation. However a CO becoming a casualty is always a big blow to the troops. A serving Lt Colonel who has served in the Valley said, “COs always lead the troops in such operations, but the morale of the jawans take a blow when their leader becomes a casualty. The CO is like a father of the regiment in true sense and losing him is difficult. In this particular case, the troops completed the operation despite losing the CO which in itself speaks highly of the leadership.” Jayshree Periwal, chairperson of the Jayshree Periwal group of schools has announced to take care of the martyr Col Ashotosh Sharma's daughter who studies in one of her schools. “It is just a small token of gratitude towards our real hero who laid down his life fighting for the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sharma-always-believed-in-leading-troops-by-example/articleshow/75524140.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 4, 2020||Goa||3 in isolation wards, 221 quarantined||Panaji: Even as the state has been declared as green zone for coronavirus, 221 persons were lodged in the quarantine facility and three suspects were admitted to isolation wards on Sunday, stated the bulletin released by the directorate of health services on Sunday. While no test reports were awaited on Sunday, 194 samples were tested negative for Covid-19, the bulletin stated. All seven recovered patients have completed seven days each in facility and home quarantine. Presently, six suspects have been admitted to isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and two at North Goa district hospital. Though Goa has not reported a single covid-19 case after April 3. The government has stepped up its efforts to test more people, nonetheless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-in-isolation-wards-221-quarantined/articleshow/75524551.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Police recruits to join Covid-19 duty after 15-day training||MADURAI: In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the training period of the newly-recruited police personnel have been reduced to 15 days from the usual six months. They will undergo training at three centres in Madurai after which they will be deployed for Covid-19 duty. As many as 528 special battalion police, armed reserve police and grade two women police personnel from Madurai and other districts will undergo training at three centres in Madurai. Police sources said that they were recruited earlier this year through written examination and physical fitness test. They were recently called for training, which will start on Tuesday. Meanwhile, they have been asked to appear for a medical screening and test for Covid-19, before the commencement of training. They have started queueing up at the training centres from early on Sunday morning. They were screened for Covid-19 and their belongings were disinfected. Those who have symptoms of Covid-19 will be asked to stay at home till their tests results are out. On completion of training, they are likely to be deployed for Covid-19 prevention works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-recruits-to-join-covid-duty-after-15-day-training/articleshow/75524547.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gas leak scare haunts citizens for second day||Ahmedabad: For two nights, the scare of a gas leak on which authorities cannot throw any light has put Amdavadis into panic, with a strong pesticide-like smell in the air wafting at night.  The strong odour was felt across the city in areas like Prahladnagar, Satellite, Nehrunagar, Navrangpura, Paldi and Maninagar, along with Bopal. The smell was so strong that many people began coughing and some reported burning sensation in eyes.  A resident of Paldi, Abhishek Viramgami, said that he could not bear the smell and it made him cough constantly as he felt allergic to it. Harshil Parekh, resident of Nehrunagar, said that the smell was felt at around 10pm on Saturday which reduced gradually and it was again felt at the same time on Sunday. Chief fire official of Ahmedabad city, M F Dastoor said that the smell was like some pesticide but he had no clue about its origin. “We deployed eight vehicles and fire personnel but couldn’t learn anything,” said Dastoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gas-leak-scare-haunts-citizens-for-second-day/articleshow/75524160.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bengaluru||IIMB-incubated startups bring relief through innovations||Bengaluru: Quarantine bands, 3-D printed face shields and ventilator valves, compressor-based ventilators, a tool to locate the nearest kirana store, fever clinic, night shelter and free food distribution centre, an e-puja hosting platform — these are just a few of the products that firms from IIMB’s (Indian Institute of Management - Bangalore) startup hub have created during the lockdown. Agri Mitra, a startup which earlier offered comprehensive solutions for farmers in Kolar and procured vegetables from them on a B2B basis, has now started delivering fruits and veggies right at doorsteps. “We started home delivering on Ugadi day and got a tremendous response. Now, we fulfil bulk orders for several apartment complexes in Bengaluru. We have completed more than 3,000 orders so far,” said Sridhar Koushik, founder of Agri Mitra. Another startup, Let’s Be The Change, has created a tool which will direct residents to the nearest kirana store, fever clinic, night shelter and free food distribution location. “Over 13,000 provision stores are open in Bengaluru now and using our link, which redirects you to Google Maps, residents can find how to reach the nearest one,” said Anirudh S Dutt, founder, Let’s Be the Change. Pupilmesh Pvt Ltd has been 3-D printing face shields and ventilator valves and has now started doing this through injection moulding, to meet rising demand. “Initially, we supplied around 250 3D-printed face shields to Victoria Hospital and Ramaiah Hospital. Now, with injection moulding, they have suggested some modifications to make the shields easier to use,” said Milind M Manoj, founder of Pupilmesh. Rapture Innovation Labs, another IIMB-incubated startup, has created an assistive ‘quarantine monitoring band’ that alerts authorities if the user flouts home quarantine rules. Smart Pooja, an online platform where customers can book Vedic ceremonies and hire a purohit to come home, has now gone digital with e-pujas. Mitti Café (which employs only the differently abled) has served more than 64,000 meals to daily-wage workers in 21 days under its Covid Hunger Relief programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iimb-incubated-startups-bring-relief-through-innovations/articleshow/75523934.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana doctors complain to IMCT about fewer Covid-19 tests||HYDERABAD: Expressing concern on the fewer number of tests in Telangana for coronavirus, a group of doctors wrote to the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT), but the state government has rubbished these allegations, saying they would not conduct indiscriminate testing. Dr Santhosh Kraleti, Dr Vijayanand Jamapuri, Dr G Veda Prakash, Dr M Srikanth, Dr M Rajender Reddy and Dr Karuna, on behalf of Doctors for Seva, an NGO comprising doctors and public health specialists highlighted many gaps in the fight against the pandemic, like fewer tests, non-reporting of deaths, isolation wards, and facilities for doctors, which they said would have serious consequences. “Fewer tests are happening in the state and they are projecting a low total number of cases. Only when more tests are done, we get more positive reports. If we continue to under-test, then we will miss many un-tested positive patients in the community,” the letter reads. They said so far 19,278 tests were conducted as on April 30, which were 551 tests per million population. Whereas other states like Maharashtra (1,212 per million), Delhi (2,778), Rajasthan (1,417), Tamil Nadu (1,527) and Andhra Pradesh (1,930) had done more. The low caseload of 1,016 in Telangana is very likely due to low testing rates. “Our doubt is that the actual caseload is much higher. We are seriously concerned that once the lockdown is relaxed, the missed patients could cause a surge in a number of cases in Telangana,” the doctors claimed. On isolation wards, the doctors said suspected cases and primary contacts are being kept in dormitory or general wards with common toilets. They said pregnant women in containment areas or clusters were not being tested by the government. But Telangana government has made it clear that it was against indiscriminate tests for Covid-19. Minister KT Rama Rao added the government did not allow private labs as it creates panic and sought to prevent private hospitals from fleecing the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-doctors-complain-to-imct-about-fewer-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75524147.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Retail sale of veggies banned at G Corner||Trichy: A day after 18 daily wagers in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts who returned from Chennai tested positive for Covid-19, the district administration has intensified preventive measures at the wholesale vegetable market here. All the 18 were linked to Koyambedu cluster. Authorities have said that legal action will be taken against people encouraging retail sales of vegetables at the G Corner ground. Wholesale vegetable traders here have vouched not to sell vegetables directly to the public and also agreed to ensure social distancing. At a meeting convened recently by the district administration with traders and city police, it was decided that any wholesale trader found selling vegetables directly to consumers will face legal actions from Sunday night. The authorities have also warned that they will not hesitate to suspend the wholesale vegetable operation at G Corner ground to prevent the spread of the disease in Trichy. The wholesale and retail vegetable traders and loadmen visiting the G Corner ground were told to wear facemasks and maintain social distancing. Only the wholesale and retail vegetable traders recognised by the associations will be permitted to enter the G Corner ground. The district administration had closed the congested Gandhi market and temporarily relocated it to G Corner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/retail-sale-of-veggies-banned-at-g-corner/articleshow/75524555.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||4 discharged in Vijayapura, one in Ballari||Vijayapura/ Ballari: As many as four patients were discharged from the Vijayapura District Coivid Hospital on Sunday. With this, the number of recovered patients has risen to 15 in the district, said DC Y S Patil. The discharged patients are 25-year-old man (P-276), 12-year-old boy (P-305), 55-year-old woman (P-313) and 18-year-old girl (P-415), all residents of Vijayapura city. The medical staff of the hospital saw them off with a round of applause. In another heartening development, a patient was cured and discharged from the designated Covid Hospital in Ballari on Sunday. Now there are only five active Covid-19 cases remaining here. P-336, a resident of Hosapete, was identified as the primary contact of discharged patients P-89, P-91 and P-141. Till Sunday, seven Covid-19 patients have been discharged from the designated Covid hospital in Ballari. District surgeon N Basireddy said, “We started treating the patient after several rounds of counselling. We advised her14 days of home quarantine and 14 days of self-quarantine, after her release.” P-336 said, “Everyone at the hospital treated me like their family member. I will remember everyone’s support, care, love, and affection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/4-discharged-in-vijayapura-one-in-ballari/articleshow/75521987.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation repairs road in containment zone||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has repaired a sewage pipeline burst after a report was published in this regard in TOI on Friday. There was a drainage burst and sewage had been overflowing on the road in Rajaji Street between Tahsildar Nagar and Second Main Road of Gomathypuram. The region comes within a containment zone in Madurai Corporation, and it is close to the residence of the first Covid-19 victim in Madurai. Movement of people was restricted on the road, and the residents ventured out only to take water from the private tanker. They had to place pots on the road to get them filled. But after the drain started overflowing, people had no access to water. The corporation repaired the road within a day and the people, including Janarathanan and the president of the Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar Residents Welfare Association, D Raghavan, thanked TOI for the help and also the corporation authorities for attending to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-repairs-road-in-containment-zone/articleshow/75524553.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ayurveda drug gets nod for clinical trials on Covid-19 patients||KOCHI: An ayurveda medicine, Zingivir-H tablet, used for treating respiratory infections, has got approval from the clinical trial registry of India (CTRI) for clinical trials on adults tested positive for Covid-19. The drug developed by Kerala-based Pankajakasthuri herbal research foundation and effectively used for viral fevers, acute viral brochitis and other respiratory infections will now be tested as a potential medicine for Covid-19 in medical colleges in India. “Our scientific validations have shown that this drug has strong anti-viral properties and is effective against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and influenza virus. The RSV is an RNA virus and we expect that it will be effective against Covid-19, which is also an RNA virus,” said Dr J Hareendran Nair, Padma Shri awardee and formulator of the drug. Dr Nair said that several medical colleges have approved the clinical trials through their ethical committees. “Some of them have already started trials and the first results are expected to be available by the second week of May,” he said. He said that the in vitro experiments done at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology has proven that there are no side-effects in the human cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ayurveda-drug-gets-nod-for-clinical-trials-on-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75523659.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five held for illegal sale of liquor||HYDERABAD: Two persons, including a liquor shop owner, were arrested for indulging in illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown and Rs 5.5 lakh cash was seized from their possession in Nizamabad. Task Force police of Nizamabad district raided the house of liquor store owner, D Rakesh, in Bheemgal village and seized 24 bottles of liquor. Meanwhile, Banjara Hills police arrested three workers of Sri Durga Bar and Restaurant in LN Nagar when they were illegally selling liquor to people at Yousufguda on Saturday night. Police seized 25 bottles of liquor worth Rs 30,000 from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-held-for-illegal-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/75524152.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Labourers hit the road in Rajkot||Rajkot: Hundreds of migrant labourers came out on the roads at Ahir Chowk and Bansidhar Weigh Bridge in Atika industrial area in Rajkot on Sunday evening. The labourers were demanding that the government arrange for their transportation to their natives in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. “After they blocked the roads, we dissuaded them from holding a demonstration, saying that we would convey their demand to the district collector. After this, the labourers dispersed,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourers-hit-the-road-in-rajkot/articleshow/75522755.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Kids, SHG contribute to ‘No mask, no ration’ campaign||MARGAO: With the government having announced that people not wearing masks will not be given petrol at fuel stations or ration at fair price shops in the state, various voluntary groups have initiated a campaign to educate people about the move. The state executive committee (SEC) had asked the government and the director of civil supplies to work out a campaign to implement this concept. Taking a cue, children of the civil supplies department staff have created a short film aimed at spreading the message about the necessity to wear masks. Titled ‘No mask no ration, no mask no fuel’, the video has been conceptualised and produced by Class VII student Gajesh Naik, son of civil supplies director Siddhivinayak Naik. All the participants in the video are children of the department staff. The video has gone viral in just two days after it was uploaded on YouTube. A women’s self-help group (SHG) from Margao, Kalashree Mahila Mandal has chipped in to amplify the message. The group has composed a Konkani video song ‘Goemkara Mask Ghaal’ that aims at spreading awareness about wearing mask and maintaining physical distancing. The song will be digitally released on Monday by the leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat, SHG president Namita Lawande said. Kamat and his wife Asha also feature in the video along with eminent personalities from Margao, including Dr V V Kamat, Dr Francisco Colaco, Harishchandra Nagvenkar, Cleafato Coutinho, Dr Gautam Kamat and Damodar Kavlekar. Kalashree had earlier taken the initiative of making masks from traditional kunbi sarees of Goa. The lyrics of the song are written by Vishal Poi Cacodo, while noted singer Mukesh Ghatwal has lent his voice for the song. The creative concept, cinematography and video editing have been done by Vaishnavi Creations, Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kids-shg-contribute-to-no-mask-no-ration-campaign/articleshow/75524557.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Cargo ship awaits govt nod to sign off, sign on fresh crew of sailors at MPT||Panaji: A cargo ship has approached the state govenrment for permission to allow its crew to sign off and sign on at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) in the coming days. Secretary for ports P S Reddy informed the state Executive committee (SEC) that a mechanism has to be prepared to allow the crew to disembark at the port and also allow a fresh batch of crew members board the vessel. The state executive committee directed that a standard operating protocol for sign on and sign off of the crew needs to be “finalised immediately” in consultation with MPT and secretary for health Nila Mohanan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cargo-ship-awaits-govt-nod-to-sign-off-sign-on-fresh-crew-of-sailors-at-mpt/articleshow/75524554.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Awaiting test results, Karnika crew fill immigration forms||Panaji: The crew onboard the cruise vessel Karnika were asked to fill in immigration forms on Sunday. They were issued e-passes to enable them to be brought home, and expect to receive the results of their Covid-19 tests today. The crew members have stated that they have been aboard the vessel for more than 40 days, and are desperate to retun home. The owner and operator of the cruiseliner, Jalesh Cruises, said that Karnika arrived in Mumbai on March 12 and its crew have been practising self -quarantine ever since. The seaport public health office in Mumbai has also given them medical clearance, they stated. The crew’s 14 -day quarantine period ended on March 26. The company has stated that the vessel arrived in Mumbai on March 12 from Dubai without any passegers and with 669 crew members, and has been in Indian waters ever since. There are 93 Goan seafarers on board who wrote to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant last week stating that they cannot afford the paid quarantine of Rs 3,000 per seafarer per day and asked for permission to to undergo 14-day home quarantine. Sawant has come on record to state that the 14-day paid quarantine cannot be avoided and added that it is not the seafarers but the company that should be willing to pay for it. The Goan Seamen Association of India has opposed paid quarantine and refuted the CM’s claim that companies are willingly paying for it. The 60-member crew from Marella Discovery undergoing quarantine at paid facilities at Patto, Panaji, will not be permitted to go home before the 14-day period is completed, despite them testing negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awaiting-test-results-karnika-crew-fill-immigration-forms/articleshow/75524552.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Panchayat president opens Re 1 idli shop for feeding farmhands||TRICHY: Inspired by Kamalathal, an octogenarian woman selling idlis for one rupee in Coimbatore district, M Palanisamy, 48, president of Venkatachalapuram village panchayat near Pullambadi in the district, has opened a low-cost eatery to serve the villagers. The eatery, named after K Kamaraj, sells idlis for Re1 per piece every morning during the lockdown. He has named it after the former chief minister of Tamil Nadu in gratitude for facilitating an irrigation canal in the village. Palanisamy said he was moved by reading the story of 82-year-old Kamalathal who sells idlis for one rupee. Not associated with any political party, he launched the low-cost eatery at the Kamarajar mandram in his panchayat to serve farmhands. Launched on May 1, Palanisamy and two of his workers sell 650-675 idlis per day. Since the idlis priced at Re1 come with sambhar and chutney, villagers who earlier skipped breakfast are reaping the benefits during the lockdown. All the idlis would be sold out between 7am and 9am as there are no other hotels in the village that has 2,000 houses. Palanisamy added that he conceptualised the idea drawing inspiration from Amma unavagam. “Kamarajar was the reason behind the Pullambadi canal, a distributary of Cauvery passing through our village. Agriculture has sustained in our village only because of that canal, we are indebted to him,” Palanisamy told TOI. As the preparation cost of each idli is Rs2.25, Palanisamy is incurring a loss of Rs1.25 per idli. Villagers were told to bring their own vessels and maintain social distancing when they come to buy the idlis. “We occasionally skip breakfast to have lunch at a go. One rupee idli has helped us to beat the hunger,” said P Bhakyam, a 70-year-old woman from Venkatachalapuram. Palanisamy who has business establishments in the city said that even after the lockdown, the eatery will continue to cater to the needs of the farmhands and senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panchayat-prez-opens-rs-1-idli-shop-for-feeding-farmhands/articleshow/75524556.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Exodus of migrants in Karnataka gains pace||BENGALURU: Notwithstanding chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s May Day appeal to migrant workers to stay and help the government revive economic activity that had come to a standstill due to the lockdown, about 72,000 people registered with nodal officers to leave Karnataka for their hometowns or villages as on Sunday. The number of people wanting to leave is nearly thrice the number of those wanting to travel inward – an affirmation that the state is a hub of employment opportunity. Workers find plenty of opportunities in cities like Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru, limiting outward movement mostly to Mumbai and Hyderabad. “As of this [Sunday] afternoon, the number of people wanting to return to Karnataka is about 25,000 people, while those wanting to leave the state is 72,000,” a senior official with the Seva Sindhu project, which registers migrants, told TOI. Nodal officers and police are sending teams to labour colonies to collate data on those wishing to leave the state. The drive has seen massive response, causing contractors, builders and the MSME sector concerns. As of 2pm on Sunday, districtwise data accessed from the e-Governance department, which implements the Seva Sindhu project, shows that there were 36,762 unprocessed applications from migrants wanting to leave Karnataka, while 23,791 unprocessed applications of those wanting to return to the state were registered. An official, who is part of the project, said: “Registrations opened on Saturday morning and these unprocessed applications are the front-end. There are many more that have already been processed. So, together there are more than 90,000 applications, of which over 70,000 are those wanting to go from here.” CJ Crasta, member, national executive committee, FICCI, said, “The labour exodus is the third big problem that we will face. As it is, there’s no cash flow in the economy and banks are not in a position to lend since there are huge pending bills from the state and Centre. MSMEs are struggling and the lack of labour will hit them hard.” Roshin Mathew, executive director and president (engineering), Brigade Group, said compared to May 1, the situation worsened on Sunday with a majority of labourers wanting to return to their hometowns. “This will have a huge impact on recovery of businesses and CREDAI is taking this up with the state government,” he said. DN Reddy, director, JMC Projects (India) Limited, a pan-India firm, said: “The issue is more psychological than anything else. We have paid workers salaries for March and provided food and weekly allowance in April and are even willing to pay April salaries. Although we took good care of them during the lockdown, we will not have a workforce when we open business. This will have a huge impact on projects.” Officials said the number of migrants wanting to register will only increase in the coming days and once private vehicles are allowed to move, then a lot of them will also leave cities on tractors and other vehicles without depending on the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/72k-migrants-register-to-leave-ktaka-businesses-worried/articleshow/75523951.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts attack in Jaisalmer again||Jaisalmer: Many areas of Jaisalmer witnessed fresh locust attacks on Sunday. The locusts struck at Lathi, Sam, Pokhran, Ramdevra areas in Jaisalmer district . In this regard, revenue minister Harish Choudhary has once again written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. and demanded that looking to the locust menace, a dialogue should be held on UN and international level along with the affected countries to make an action plan to tackle the menace. Choudhary said that locusts have started coming from across the border into Rajasthan. He added that last year Rajasthan, Punjab and Gujarat suffered huge crop loss because of locust attacks. This time, the farmers have sown Kharif crops and fear similar attacks. The revenue minister has informed PM Narendra Modi that the methods used to fight locusts at the ground level are not proving useful, therefore, there is a need to change the modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-attack-in-jaisalmer-again/articleshow/75524162.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||401 of 499 +ve cases recovered||Thiruvananthapuram: It was a day of relief for the state as no positive case was reported in the state on Sunday. Till date, 499 positive cases have been reported in the state, of which 401 people have been discharged. Only 95 positive cases are under treatment now. Of the 32,217 samples that have been collected from the suspected cases, 31,611 samples have been tested negative. From the priority groups like health workers, police personnel and health volunteers, 2,391 samples were collected, of which 1,683 have been tested negative. The remaining results are expected in a day or two. At present, 21,720 people have been put under observation, of which 21,332 are in home quarantine and 388 people with suspected symptoms have been admitted to the designated isolation facilities of hospitals across the state. One person was tested negative in the state from Kannur. A total of 37 active positive cases are undergoing treatment in Kannur now, followed by Kottayam with 18 active cases and Idukki and Kollam with 12 active cases each. More number of people under observation is in Palakkad with 3,036 suspected cases, Thiruvananthapuram 2696 people and Kannur 2544 people. Pathanamthitta which was the nerve centre of Covid-19 initially now has only 127 people under observation, of which only five people are in the hospital. Four more local bodies have been included in the hotspots of the state. Mananthavady in Wayanad, Edakattuvayal and Manjalloor in Ernakulam, Santhanapara in Idukki are the new hotpots. Now the state has 88 hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/401-of-499-ve-cases-recovered/articleshow/75523711.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Consider us at least animals, write docs who tested +ve||Ahmedabad: The WhatsApp chat of a group of resident doctors at Civil Hospital went viral among the medical fraternity and beyond on Sunday. The chat revealed how the doctors of a hospital on Civil Hospital campus were not admitted in their own hospital despite reporting positive. As the matter was escalated and came to the notice of senior state officials, the doctors were shifted to a five-star hotel in Ahmedabad — which was seen as placatory move. The doctors refused to talk on record, saying that it would hamper their grades in the upcoming examination. Sources however claimed that the entire episode lasted for more than five to six hours on Saturday and Sunday. “It started with a total of seven doctors in different departments testing positive. One of the doctors was insisting on getting tested after symptoms but he was denied testing initially,” said a source. “After the nursing staff and a few of the doctors tested positive, fear ran high and thus the doctors had opted for the test.” The source said that after they tested positive, the doctors were initially sent to the 1,200-bed hospital. “From there, they were directed to the GCRI building that has been converted into a Covid-19 facility,” the source said. “The doctors claim that in their own hospital, they had to wait for three hours to get admitted. They also tried to approach their seniors but to no avail.” The WhatsApp message reads: “First you said it’s low risk, we continued working because we are residents. Then you said no need to test, we continued working.... OT staff positive, no action, resident doctor positive, no action... Now 11 doctors positive and 4 residents called on emergency basis for admission, they denied of beds. And you are saying we can’t help you... Please consider us as human beings, at least as animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/consider-us-at-least-animals-write-docs-who-tested-ve/articleshow/75524161.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: WCWD gives 2 lakh sanitary napkins to CCIs after complaints||HYDERABAD: The Women and Child Welfare Department (WCWD) has been providing food ration kits to the CCIs (child care institutions) in the state but a few orphanages said that sanitary napkins, an essential item for girls staying in CCIs, were not provided. “Initially, the department asked us to send a list of essentials required in the CCI. We had sent the list of essential items needed, including the sanitary napkins in March, however, they did not send the pads,” said Anil K Kumar, founder of Crisis Rescue Foundation, Alwal. “It is difficult to convey to the donors who are distributing the essentials to our orphanage about the requirement of sanitary pads. Currently, we are managing with the funds we have,” said Anil, who further added that he has been saving the rent money to buy essentials, including the sanitary napkins. Vastalayam Orphanage in Nagole runs on donations but the funds have dried up due to the lockdown. “The department has been sending kits, however, without keeping in mind that each CCI has a different requirement. Sanitary napkin being an essential item, should be provided free of cost by the department,” said founder, Raghavendra D, who along with other CCIs approached Balala Hakkula Sangham, a child rights NGO, seeking help. The NGO shot a letter to Satyavathi Rathod, minister for Women and Child Welfare, asking to provide the pads to the needy CCIs. On Saturday, the department tweeted saying around 2 lakh units of sanitary napkins have been dispatched. “We’ve dispatched 2 Lakh units of Sanitary napkins, channeled by @TelanganaSIG, to reach thousands of girls and women housed in our Children homes, Swadhar, Ujjwala homes, Service & Rescue homes and Hostels. Thank you P&G India and @IndiaPostOffice,” tweeted the department. “In the first and second phase we have sent 65,000 units of sanitary napkin to Swadhar homes, Ujwala homes, children homes for girls and preferred the districts which are far and beyond. In the next 2 days we will identify other child care institutions in need and send the rest,” said D Divya, director, WCWD. She further added nearly 320 child homes from various districts were covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wcwd-gives-2l-sanitary-napkins-to-ccis-after-plaints/articleshow/75524175.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||BSF jawan shoots colleague before committing suicide in Sriganganagar||edited Jaipur/Jaisalmer: A BSF jawan shot dead his colleague in Sriganganagar before committing suicide early on Sunday. BSF is conducting an internal enquiry into the matter. According to preliminary investigation, the two jawans had an argument about the delay in opening the checkpost gate while the former was on duty. Havildar Shivchandra shot dead his post commander R P Singh before aiming the INSAS rifle on himself. Both died on the spot. They were stationed at Renuka post of 125 battalion of BSF. “According to preliminary investigation, the two jawans were involved in an argument following which the havildar shot dead his post commander before committing suicide. We are still investigating the matter,” said Majid Khan, SHO, Hindumalkot police station. Sources said that Singh had asked Havildar Shivchandra to open the checkpost gate and apparently got agitated when there was some delay. Singh hailed from UP while Shivchandra was from Jharkhand. Other officials said that both the deceased had cordial relations and had never had any dispute. “We have initiated an internal enquiry into the matter as it is still unclear why the havildar suddenly opened fire. There was no such incident in the past which could have triggered such an action. We will record statements of all the jawans to find out what exactly transpired between the two to get a clear picture,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawan-shoots-colleague-before-committing-suicide-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/75524157.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Patna||Influx of migrants: Bihar removes green zone tag||PATNA: There will be no green zones in the state. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani issued an order in this regard on Sunday in the wake of thousands of stranded migrant workers and students returning home by special trains from other states amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the districts in Bihar will fall only in red and orange zones, as per the central government criteria. The state government took the decision under the power from the central government order to change zones for lockdown. The Centre has given liberty to states/UTs that based on their assessment of situation and with the primary objective of containing the Covid-19, “they may allow only select activities out of the permitted activities with such restrictions as felt necessary”. The decision was taken in view of the fact that the migrant workers and students reaching Bihar hail from almost every district, including those in green zone. That will increase the risk factor amid the pandemic. All the people coming from outside the state would be quarantined for more than 14 days followed by home isolation. More than 13,200 migrant workers and students are expected to reach state by 12 special trains by Tuesday. Altogether 1,174 migrants reached Danapur by a special train from Jaipur on Saturday. Subhani, in his order, mentioned that e-commerce facilities for all kinds of items, construction works, functioning of industries, hair-cutting shops, spa and saloon would be allowed in the orange zone. He has also ordered that shops for only essential services would be allowed to open in red zones as per the central government direction. The DMs would take decision on allowing sales of other than essential items, as per situation and need. Now, the government will not allow plying of intra-district buses and functioning of depots even with 50% strength in the 13 districts which were earlier in green zone in state. Munger, Patna, Rohtas, Buxar and Gaya districts are in red zone while the rest 33 districts would now fall under the orange zone. Sheikhpura, Jamui, Katihar, Khagaria, Araria, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, West Champaran, Saharsa, Samastipur, Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Supaul were in green zone till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/influx-of-migrants-state-removes-green-zone-tag/articleshow/75522778.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 4, 2020||India||India slips two places on global press freedom index; Javadekar says media has ‘absolute freedom’||NEW DELHI: Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said the media enjoyed “absolute freedom” in India, and that the government would “expose” surveys that tended to portray a “bad picture” about press freedom in the country. Javadekar’s comments were in the context of the latest report compiled by global body Reporters Without Borders which said India had dropped two places on the global press freedom index — from 140 to 142, in a list of 180 countries. Norway is ranked first in the index while China is at 177. North Korea is at 180. According to the survey, India’s neighbours Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka are ranked higher than India on the index. The survey said the communications blackout imposed by the government in Kashmir, which made it difficult for journalists to report on what was happening in the region, had played a significant role in India’s ranking going down. The World Press Freedom Index 2020, released on April 22, said though the security situation for journalists in India improved because there were no murders of journalists in 2019, as against six in 2018, there were “constant press freedom violations, including police violence against journalists, ambushes by political activists, and reprisals instigated by criminal groups or corrupt local officials”. India’s rank went from 122 in 2010 to 142 this year, falling 20 places in a decade. Javadekar, however, maintained that media had the power to inform and enlighten people. “Media in India enjoys absolute freedom. We will expose, sooner than later, those surveys that tend to portray a bad picture about ‘freedom of press’ in India,” he said on Twitter. Congress, the principal opposition party, alluded to the index and India’s deteriorating ranking to allege that the press was under attack by BJP. “India slipped two places in World Press Freedom Index to 142. As we commemorate World Press Freedom Day, we must remember that BJP is hell bent on destroying this fourth pillar of democracy and we shouldn’t let that happen,” Congress said on Twitter, adding that journalists in the country should not be scared. “To all the journalists, we would say ‘daro mat’ (don’t be scared),” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slips-two-places-on-global-press-freedom-index-javadekar-says-media-has-absolute-freedom/articleshow/75524827.cms||Swati Mathur
May 4, 2020||Goa||Online forms for migrants stranded in urban areas||Margao: While several panchayats in South Goa have set up a data collection desk for stranded migrants wishing to leave Goa, those staying in municipal areas have been asked to fill in their details on online Google forms created for each municipal council. Chief officer of Margao Municipal Council (MMC) Ajit Panchwadkar said the Margao civic body already has the data of all migrant labourers. “As most of the migrant labourers have been accommodated in the government shelter homes in Margao, we already have the data of most of the migrant labour population,” Panchwadkar said. The online google forms, it was informed, are directly linked to the office of the district collector for compilation of data for working out modalities to arrange for their transport to take them to their native places. This will enable anybody to register himself online. The government is working with the railways to arrange for Shramik special trains for the purpose, the schedule of which is yet to be announced. However, the online Google forms exercise evoked criticism from various quarters who questioned the efficacy of the move, considering that most of the migrant workers are illiterate and would thus be unable the access the online form. Besides, all the internet cafes across the state are yet to be opened.  The online Google forms exercise evoked criticism from various quarters who questioned the efficacy of the move, considering that most workers are illiterate and would be unable the access the form. Internet cafes across the state are also closed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-forms-for-migrants-stranded-in-urban-areas/articleshow/75524561.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Jaipur||Mid-day meal: 45L students to get dry ration||Jaipur: The education department will provide dry ration to over 45 lakh students of Class I-VIII under the mid-day meal programme in coming weeks. The programme has been extended during the summer vacation in view of coronavirus situation. The ration will be distributed through fair price shops. “The foodgrains will be taken from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for the distribution purpose. We are developing a mechanism by roping in teachers and fair price shop staff for the distribution,” said Govind Singh Dotasra, state education minister. The initiative has been taken considering the fact that several families have lost their livelihood leading the financial crises due to pandemic. Under the initiative, the state will provide rice, wheat and pulses to beneficiary students aiming to provide them nutritious food till the school starts. The department has started identifying the beneficiary families from its schools across the state.“Ideally, those students who have been taking mid-day meal in the last three months before the lockdown, will continue to get the foodgrains,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mid-day-meal-45l-students-to-get-dry-ration/articleshow/75524166.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||UP labourers clash in Kutch cement factory, 16 arrested||Rajkot: Four labourers were injured when clashes broke out between two groups of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh at Sanghipuram colony of a cement factory in Abdasa taluka of Kutch on Saturday night. Tempers flared when one of the groups had gone to make a representation before the labour contractor to arrange transport for their travel to UP, but had to return emptyhanded when he denied. When they returned to the colony, workers from the other group mocked at the failed attempt which led to an altercation. “Suddenly situation turned serious with workers attacking each other with bats, iron pipes and stones, that left four labourers injured. However, we rushed to the spot after getting a call and arrested 16 persons,” said R U Zala, sub-inspector with Vayor police station. The group led by Tejbahadur Chauhan, Subhash Nishad and Omprakash Goswami made a representation before Bhanwar Lal, the labour contractor, demanding arrangement for their travel to their native places in UP. Lal said that the no such help could be extended as the UP government had refused to allow migrants from its state to return.When the group returned to the labour colony, the other group led by Rajesh Pradhan, Shivlal Nishad and Omshankar made fun of those who had made a vain attempt through representation. Of the 16 persons arrested were Subhash Nishad, Omprakash Goswami, Faruq Baksh and Shivlal Nishad who led one group, and Ram Chauhan, Tejbahadur Chauhan, Rajaram Rajbhar and Rajan Chauhan who led another group. Four labourers, identified as Tejbahadur Chauhan, Shivlal Nishad, Rajesh Pradhan and Ram Chauhan, were injured in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/up-labourers-clash-in-kutch-cement-factory-16-arrested/articleshow/75522791.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Heggade urges people to abstain from alcohol||MANGALURU: A decision by the state government to open liquor shops in the state from Monday has sparked a debate. While the compulsion behind the government’s decision is pure economics, it has left religious heads including dharmadhikari of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala D Veerendra Heggade worried about its social impact, prompting him to issue an appeal urging people to abstain from liquor as a means of bettering their lives. Referring to sustained de-addiction campaign that Sri Kshetra has been conducting through Janajagruthi Vedike since the early 1980s, Heggade told TOI that alcoholics have shown their capability to survive without liquor for the past 40 days. “They did suffer withdrawal symptoms initially including restlessness, sense of anger and their dislike for nutritious food, but have overcome the same during the lockdown and this is the time to consolidate,” he said. The familial support that the alcoholics got has helped them overcome this craving, Heggade said, adding it is the time for the family to continue doing that. “Our de-addiction camps have also turned around the lives of families that were staring at ruin,” Heggade said. People who have given up the habit have prospered economically. “There are instances of people having bought new vehicles and even building their own houses,” he said. Exhorting those who have remained away from alcohol for the period of lockdown to give up the habit, Heggade said this is time for people to consolidate the health gains made. This was also the dream of Mahatma Gandhi for the nation, Heggade said, appealing to people to take a vow to give up liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heggade-urges-people-to-abstain-from-alcohol/articleshow/75522016.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC formulates plan to make city Covid-19 free by May 30||Aurangabad: With the number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases increasing from 53 to 273 over the week, the civic administration has come up with a multi-pronged strategy under its administrator with the aim to eliminate the infection from the city by May 30. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey presided over a meeting on Sunday to discuss the implementation of the modified Covid-19 control and management strategy. City engineer Sakharam Panzade, municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar, head of task force and legal advisor Aparna Thete and all medical officers and staff nurses were in attendance. In the meeting, it was decided that as against the previous strategy of putting the high-risk and low-risk contacts of the positive cases in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) quarantine facilities, the throat swab samples of the suspects will be collected from their respective residences. The decision comes in the wake of the allegations made by both suspected and positive Covid-19 patients about poor transportation and accommodation arrangements for the suspected cases. Patients who test positive for Covid-19 will be shifted to the Covid care centres (CCCs) set up at the Social Welfare Hostel at Qile Ark, MGM sports complex, MIT hostel and Emergency Operations Centre at Padampura. The civic body has arranged for the admission and treatment of more than 2,000 asymptomatic patients at its CCCs. “Two medical officers of AMC will supervise the CCCs in 12-hour shifts,” said Pandey. Some hostels in Bamu have also been reserved for use as quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-formulates-plan-to-make-city-covid-19-free-by-may-30/articleshow/75522780.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Another Covid-19 positive woman delivers healthy baby girl||AURANGABAD: A Covid-19 positive woman delivered a healthy baby at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) around midnight on Saturday. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar confirmed on Sunday that a 28-year-old woman from Baijipura-Indiranagar area had given birth to a healthy baby girl. According to Shrinivas Gadappa, the GMCH head of the department of gynaecology and obstetrics (OBGYN), in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, all pregnant women coming for delivery from the containment zones are being treated as positive cases. “The women from high-risk areas are tested for Covid-19. Until their report is received, they are treated as positive patients and all necessary precautions are taken,” Gadappa said. In this case, proactive questioning and timely action by the OBGYN department ensured safe delivery and prevented the spread of infection to other patients and hospital staff. The woman was admitted to the GMCH on Saturday afternoon and she gave normal birth to a girl at 12.30 am on Sunday. The baby weighs 2.8 kg and is healthy, Gadappa added. When asked about the possibility of transmission of infection from mother to child, Gadappa said there have been zero incidents anywhere in the world of vertical transmission of Covid-19 infection ie. transmission of the infection from mother to baby through the blood. “However, the baby cannot be brought close to the mother. We have shifted the mother to Covid-19 isolation ward and the baby is being fed express milk pumped from the mother,” he said. She will be able to hold the baby only after she tests negative for coronavirus, Gadappa said. This is the second delivery by a Covid-19 positive woman in Aurangabad. The first delivery was conducted by doctors at the district civil hospital through C-section. That woman had recovered and was discharged along with her newborn earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/another-covid-ve-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-girl/articleshow/75522805.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘80% trade comes from 25% of region under lockdown’||Ahmedabad: Instead of 40, it will now be a 54-day lockdown for Ahmedabad, as the state government has clearly spelled out that no new relaxation will be extended to the four major cities in addition to Gandhinagar and Bhavnagar in the coming two weeks. While it does leave people both scared and frustrated at the same time, it will certainly weigh down heavily on the retailers. Estimates by Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) suggest that 80% of wholesale and retail trade comes from 25% of the state’s region which is under a lockdown.“Retailers were already reeling under a demand slowdown even before the Covid-19 pandemic was announced. No relaxation for retail trade in major urban centres will only add to the woes of traders, with small retailers getting worst affected,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, GTF. “The government must review its decision and allow gradual opening of trade in areas outside containment zones. We had sent a representation last week to the government, suggesting allowing opening of stores selling non-essential items for two days in a week on a rotational basis and then relax further by reviewing the situation,” Tanna further added.Industry players are also of the opinion that retail should be allowed to resume in accordance with the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80-trade-comes-from-25-of-region-under-lockdown/articleshow/75524208.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Residents’ assn shows the way with self-imposed containment||Trichy: At a time when complaints are raised by locals about non-availability of essential commodities, a residents welfare association (RWA) in Trichy has stood out in the way it has managed to provide essentials to its residents. The RWA has been observing self-imposed restrictions and have managed to keep the residents in their locality indoors by door delivering essentials commodities, even cash.ARK Nagar near Sarkarpalayam in Trichy has 140 houses, with 170 families residing in the locality. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, the residents have erected a checkpost and instructed watchmen to prevent the entry of outsiders. The 650 odd residents were insisted to not to step out and were assured that all the essentials including groceries, vegetables, meat and medicines would be door delivered. “We have arranged a vegetable vendor to supply vegetables required for all the households. The seller will visit us on Thursday every week and we purchase in bulk. Our watchmen were provided with face masks and gloves, and in case of any emergency need such as medicines, our watchmen will get it for us,” T Jayakumar, secretary of ARK Nagar RWA told TOI. Outsiders including the relatives of the residents of ARK Nagar have banned from entering the locality during the lockdown.Meat and fish too are door delivered to the houses and residents can place the demand on an exclusive WhatsApp group. One of the RWA association members who venture out once in a week withdraws cash from ATMs in bulk. Residents in need of cash can avail money from the member and can pay him back through online transfer. “I have not stepped out of our locality ever since the lockdown was imposed. Since the essential commodities are available at doorstep, there is no need to step out,” J Udhayanan, a resident of ARK Nagar said. The civic bodies can take a leaf out of the association’s model for managing the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-assn-shows-the-way-with-self-imposed-containment/articleshow/75524560.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||PGDM courses to begin from July 1: AICTE||Hyderabad: All institutions offering post-graduate diploma and certificate management courses (PGDM/PGCM) shall commence classes from July 1, according to the guidelines issued by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) on Saturday. After the University Grants Commission (UGC), the AICTE issued guidelines for standalone PGDM/PGCM institutions across the country. The academic calendar will be applicable to 336 institutions across the state and shall affect 49,949 students, as per AICTE figures. The last date for cancellation of admission in PGDM/PGCM courses with full refund of fees and deduction of Rs 1,000 is July 25. Last date for admission is July 31, following which academic session for newly admitted students will commence from August 1 and go on till July 31, 2021. The last date up to which students can be admitted in open and distance learning courses in two sessions is August 15, 2020 and February 15, 2021. “The institutions shall not hike the admission fees or other fees for the academic year 2020-21and also should not force the selected candidates to pay advance fees during lockdown,” reads the guidelines. Institutions have been directed to start the session via online classes and shift to regular classes only after a notification from the ministry of human resource development. “Due to the shutdown, some universities could not conduct the final year examinations of the undergraduate courses or could not declare the results. In such cases, the provisional admissions of the students may be given and he/she shall produce the proof of successful completion of the graduation on or before December 31, 2020,” reads the guidelines. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pgdm-courses-to-begin-from-july-1-aicte/articleshow/75524189.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Charity rains on parched saltpan workers in Rann||Rajkot: It was not a mirage that around 350-odd saltpan workers of Surendranagar district, who live in abject poverty, saw on Sunday. It was actually a miracle of sorts for these parched workers in Little Rann of Kutch who witnessed charity rain on them. Surendranagar district collector K Rajesh himself went inside the Rann to distribute ration kits to these saltpan workers in Dhrangadhra and Patadi on Sunday. “When the saltpan workers go to their work sites, they don’t return to their villages till their work is completed. Hence, we decided to reach out to these workers stuck in the lockdown,” said Rajesh. For the workers who earn a meagre 25 paise for one kilo of salt they produce, the kit containing three kgs each of rice and wheat, one kg sugar, two kgs of dal, one litre oil, 200 gram turmeric and 500 gram chilly powder was literally god sent. “One kit will last them for a week. This is the fifth time, the government has reached out to the remote saltpan workers, who belong to the nomadic and de-notified tribe of Chuvaliya Koli community,” Rajesh said. The saltpan workers hail from 105 villages of Patadi and Dhrangadhra of Surendranagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/charity-rains-on-parched-saltpan-workers-in-rann/articleshow/75522833.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two raped, three killed in separate incidents||PATNA: Two girls were raped while three others killed in the state since Saturday evening. In addition, the police foiled an attack on security forces in Maoist infested Gaya district and seized a huge quantity of explosives. A 10-year-old girl was raped by a youth when she was grazing her cattle in the field under Jadia police station in Supaul district. One Nitish Kumar was arrested and sent to jail after the victim’s family reported the matter to the police on Sunday. Jadia SHO Pankaj Kumar said the survivor is undergoing treatment at Supaul Sadar hospital. “Her condition is stated to be critical,” he added. In another incident, a 19-year-old girl was raped under Mufassil police station in Purnia district on Saturday. SHO Madan Prasad said the accused Ishaq made an abortive attempt to strangulate the victim after raping her. She was found lying unconscious in a maize field. She is undergoing treatment at Purnia Sadar hospital. The accused is absconding. A report from Siwan said a 57-year-old woman was stabbed to death in her house at Bahalu under Darauli police station late Saturday night. The woman was alone and the incident came to light on Sunday morning. SHO Sanjiv Kumar said the deceased’s husband, Manager Singh, worked for a private firm in Odisha while their son was stranded in Delhi due to nationwide lockdown. The reason behind the murder could not be ascertained. In Muzaffarpur, a young woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her Railway Colony residence under Kazi Mohammadpur police station on Saturday. Victim Hemlata’s husband Shambhu Kumar and his three friends were detained for interrogation. SHO Md Sujauddin said Shambhu didn’t inform any relatives and disposed of the body. In Nawada, seven people, including a mukhiya, have been made accused of killing one Ranjan Yadav (32) near Satanbigha under Meskar police station on Saturday night. Rajauli SDPO Sanjay Kumar said Ranjan had left home after receiving a phone call from the munshi of the firm where he worked. Munshi Imtiyaz alias Bugal Khan is absconding after the incident, he added. IEDs, explosives seized in GayaIn Gaya, the security forces foiled a Maoist attack and seized three Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and a huge quantity of explosives on Sunday. The IEDs were later defused by the bomb disposal squad of the CRPF’s Cobra battalion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-raped-3-killed-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/75522842.cms||Ramashankar
May 4, 2020||Kochi||Opposition stands exposed on salary challenge, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has lashed out at the opposition for criticizing the salary challenge initiated to face the critical situation faced by the state. “The tremendous response received for the contributions to the CMDRF has exposed the claims made by the opposition,” said the chief minister. It was pity that the opposition protested against the salary challenge at first and then the decision to defer the payment of six-day salary. The entire country is facing severe financial crisis due to the present circumstances and various state governments have come out with several measures to tide over the crisis, he said. When the Centre decided to freeze the DA of the central government employees, several states decided to take the salary of the government employees to face the crisis. However the Congress did not utter a word against such moves even in Rajasthan, he added. It was most disgraceful that a teacher by profession took the extreme step of burning the copy of the government order. However the students of the same school gave a fitting reply to the teacher by contributing the funds they received through Vishu kayneettams to the CMDRF. This was the reaction of the people to the protests made by the opposition, said the chief minister in his weekly programme “Nam Munnottu”. On the allegations against the spending of government funds for bringing advocates in government cases, the chief minister said every government uses state funds for defending cases which involved the government. All governments in the past have also done the same thing. The state government needed a helicopter for security reasons and also during emergencies. All state governments have their own helicopters or small flights and there was nothing wrong in that, he added. He also flayed the objection to appointment of advisers in his team. The salaries paid to all the advisers is not even equal to what a senior bureaucrat is getting in the state service, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oppn-stands-exposed-on-salary-challenge-says-cm/articleshow/75531219.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Opposition stands exposed on salary challenge, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has lashed out at the opposition for criticizing the salary challenge initiated to face the critical situation faced by the state. “The tremendous response received for the contributions to the CMDRF has exposed the claims made by the opposition,” said the chief minister. It was pity that the opposition protested against the salary challenge at first and then the decision to defer the payment of six-day salary. The entire country is facing severe financial crisis due to the present circumstances and various state governments have come out with several measures to tide over the crisis, he said. When the Centre decided to freeze the DA of the central government employees, several states decided to take the salary of the government employees to face the crisis. However the Congress did not utter a word against such moves even in Rajasthan, he added. It was most disgraceful that a teacher by profession took the extreme step of burning the copy of the government order. However the students of the same school gave a fitting reply to the teacher by contributing the funds they received through Vishu kayneettams to the CMDRF. This was the reaction of the people to the protests made by the opposition, said the chief minister in his weekly programme “Nam Munnottu”. On the allegations against the spending of government funds for bringing advocates in government cases, the chief minister said every government uses state funds for defending cases which involved the government. All governments in the past have also done the same thing. The state government needed a helicopter for security reasons and also during emergencies. All state governments have their own helicopters or small flights and there was nothing wrong in that, he added. He also flayed the objection to appointment of advisers in his team. The salaries paid to all the advisers is not even equal to what a senior bureaucrat is getting in the state service, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-stands-exposed-on-salary-challenge-says-cm/articleshow/75523724.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hubballi||Ban liquor permanently: Seer||Bagalkot: Kudala Sangam Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami has urged both the central and state governments to ban the sale of liquor permanently and thereby realize the dream of Mahatma Gandhi of a liqour-free India. In his memorandum to deputy commissioner K Rajendra, the seer stated that prohibition of sale of liquor should continue even after the lockdown is lifted. With the ban on liquor sale, more number of families were leading a happy and peaceful life. The crime rate and domestic violence also had come down, he said, adding that governments should try to collect revenue from other sources than liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ban-liquor-permanently-seer/articleshow/75522038.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||From chasing after wildlife to cooking food for the needy||Ahmedabad: On a normal day, volunteers of the NGO Wildlife Rescue Team are out catching snakes and other animals, but these days they are seen more often at the community kitchen set up in Dharamnagar area.On Saturday, seeing the plight of the stranded passengers at Sabarmati railway station, the NGO members got their act together and began cooking masala khichdi for the 1,000-odd passengers. “We always keep a day’s stock in hand, but seeing the hungry passengers we decided to use the stock and make khichdi for them. One of the volunteers arranged drinking water while Veer Mani, who hails from South India, decided to get milk for the small kids,” said Arvind Parmar of the NGO.“Mani managed to get the milk from a nearby milk parlour which was closed. We got it opened and served the milk to the kids,” Parmar said. This has been the routine for the wildlife volunteer team since the lockdown was announced.Parmar said as soon as they realized that serving 1,000-odd passengers would be a mammoth task, he decided to take the help of a friend, Mukesh Bhatti, who runs a kitchen in Thaltej. He too made food for 400 to 500 people and rushed to the Sabarmati station.Parmar said that in March, when the lockdown was announced the group decided to do something for the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-chasing-after-wildlife-to-cooking-food-for-the-needy/articleshow/75524188.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 4, 2020||Goa||Deputy SP vacancies touch 21 after 4 cops promoted||Panaji: Nearly 60% of deputy superintendent of police (DySP) posts are lying vacant following the recent promotion of four DySPs in Goa police. Out of 36 sanctioned DySP posts, 21 posts are now vacant. Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) has promoted four DySPs to the post of superintendent of police (SP). Speaking to TOI, GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha said that through a duly constituted departmental promotion committee (DPC), DySPs Sammy Tavares, Mahesh Gaonkar, Serafin Dias and Lawrence D’Souza have been promoted to the post of superintendent of police (SP). SP headquarters Shekhar Prabhudesai told TOI that once the government issues the promotion order, they will immediately move to fill up the four DySP vacancies by promoting three police inspectors and confirming one existing DySP. Last year, the force sent a new proposal to change the recruitment rules, stating that 40% of DySP vacancies should be filled through direct recruitment, and the remaining 60% by promoting officers who hold any post for a minimum of five years under the government. Goa police officers have demanded that the state government abolish the direct recruitment of DySPs, pointing out that it would hamper promotions within the force. Senior police inspectors had met chief minister Pramod Sawant recently to explain how direct recruitments could hamper promotions of PIs and below. Meanwhile, the file on direct recruitment of DySPs has been stuck in bureaucracy. On October 16, 2017, the state government had approved the direct recruitment of 15 DySPs into the force. In 1997, the state government had directly recruited six DySPs, some of whom were subsequently inducted into the Indian Police Service Meanwhile, the DPC also promoted SPs Dinraj Govekar and Bossuet Silva from senior scale to junior administrative grade GPSC also promoted Gaurish Mapari and Sushant Naik to the posts of assistant director in forensic science in the Goa Police Service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deputy-sp-vacancies-touch-21-after-4-cops-promoted/articleshow/75524569.cms||Murari Shetye
May 4, 2020||Patna||State’s Covid tally jumps to 517 as 36 more test positive||Patna: The number of Covid-19 patients in the state increased to 517 with 36 more people, including two cancer patients, testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Altogether 12 patients, on the other hand, were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours after they recovered from the disease. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 394. The virus has so far claimed four lives in the state. Of the 35 new cases, seven are from Munger, six from Bhagalpur, five each from West Champaran and Aurangabad, four from East Champaran, three from Buxar and one each from Kaimur, Katihar, Siwan, Sheohar, Arwal and Saran districts. An 81-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi after undergoing cancer surgery, was tested positive for coronavirus at Shikharganj under Belaghat block in East Champaran district. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said the man had returned to his native place on April 30 in an ambulance along with three other people. “He is so far the oldest Covid-19 patient in the state. A 23-year-old youth, who had come in contact with this man, has also been tested positive for the virus,” he said. In West Champaran, the five cases were recorded in Sanachari and Yogapatti. These people are contacts of migrants from New Delhi who were tested positive on April 30. “Three men (41, 22 and 18 years of age) and two women (36 and 17 years of age) have been tested positive in West Champaran. In Bhagalpur, four men (17, 22, 25 and 55 years of age) and two women (26 and 60 years of age) have contracted the disease,” Kumar said. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said a 34-year-old man from Garhwa in Sheohar district, who was tested positive for Covid-19, is a third stage liver cancer patient who returned to his native place from Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital on April 20. “His first test report had come negative on April 21. However, the second report came positive on Sunday. The man had earlier gone to IGIMS in Patna for treatment,” she said. A 30-year-old woman from Sadalpur in Katihar was also tested positive. Her sample was collected during door-to-door screening in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-tally-jumps-to-517-as-36-more-test-positive/articleshow/75522880.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Eight new cases in Krishna dist, mostly from red zones||Vijayawada: Eight new Covid-19 cases were registered in Krishna district on Sunday taking the cumulative tally to 266. Prasadampadu, Ramavarappadu, Machavaram, Krishna Lanka, Gollapudi and Poranki village reported one each and Gunadala reported two. The new cases has left the district administration and VMC worried because many among these have already been demarcated as containment zones. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz directed panchayat officials to continue to be cautious and take necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Vijayawada rural mandala. He conducted a meet with revenue, health wing officials and directed them to be cautious about the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. “Health workers and volunteers are conducting the fourth phase of door-to-door survey. Our teams are visiting each and every home and explaining to them the precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. The distribution of masks is in progress. We have identified around 3,790 persons with Covid-19 symptoms and are testing them,” Imtiaz said. Officials are collecting swab samples from all suspects and close contacts of Covid-19 patients are being quarantined. Meanwhile, panchayat officials are focusing on improving sanitation in these areas and have started disinfecting roads with sodium hypochlorite. Health wing officials have intensified rapid testing at hotspots and red zones like Krishna Lanka, Machavaram and Ramavarappadu. On Sunday all meat and chicken shops in and around Vijayawada remained cl«osed as per the directions of VMC. Special teams from the veterinary wing of VMC conducted surprise inspections and seized stocks from sellers who violated the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eight-new-cases-in-krishna-dist-mostly-from-red-zones/articleshow/75522849.cms||Venu Lanka
May 4, 2020||Pune||Army commander lauds ‘corona warriors’ for their grit in Covid-19 fight||PUNE: General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Army Southern Command Lt Gen CP Mohanty lauded the front line workers for their resolve and grit in the fight against the Covid-19 contagion on Sunday. “The corona warriors are undertaking this challenging task of fighting Covid-19 and they have demonstrated resolve and grit by which the country has been able to suppress the spread to a large extent. The enthusiasm shown by the brave men/women is unmatchable and surely deserves compliments from every citizen of our country. All members of the Southern Army salute the valiant corona warriors for their selfless contribution to the nation,” Mohanty said. On Sunday, senior officers of the command felicitated agencies involved in the fight against Covid-19. Those felicitated included sanitation workers, conservancy staff, police officers, district administration officials, doctors and hospital staff, among other front line workers at multiple locations in the city. Major General Navneet Kumar, General Officer Commanding of Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area, appreciated the police personnel stationed at Pune commissioner officer. Similarly, Commander of the Bombay Sappers and president of Khadki Cantonment Board Brigadier MJ Kumar felicitated conservancy staffers of the board and police personnel at Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate. Brigadier Kuljeet Singh, president of the Pune Cantonment Board along with mayor Murlidhar Mohol felicitated hospital staffers, doctors and conservancy workers at the PMC administrative building. Besides, other senior officers visited about 15 police stations and front line hospitals to express support for their staffers, said an army source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-commander-lauds-corona-warriors-for-their-grit-in-ncov-fight/articleshow/75524703.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Two more from Koyambedu test positive in Ariyalur dist||Trichy: A day after reporting 18 cases, Ariyalur reported two more Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, both daily wagers at Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai which emerged as a hotspot recently. Meanwhile, district administrations in the central region have asked Chennai returnees to go for a compulsory test.The two infected men, aged 24 and 26 from Periyakurichi and Nathakuzhi villages respectively, took Ariyalur district’s tally to 28. So far, 358 people who have returned to Ariyalur, mostly from Chennai, are in institutional quarantine at the facility established at seven places in the district. The health department has collected samples from 476 people in containment zones as well as close contacts of the returnees. Though the number of positive cases in Perambalur district stands at 11, hundreds of villagers employed as daily wagers in Koyambedu have returned, mostly to Kunnam and Alathur. Results of the samples collected from more than 250 people are awaited in the district. Meanwhile, Trichy district administration has appealed to Koyambedu returnees to intimate the district administration for undergoing Covid-19 lab test either at GH or PHCs. Helplines including 99523-87108 and 99526-11108 can be contacted for this purpose.Amid the rise in positive cases, three patients were discharged from Thanjavur Government Medical College hospital on Sunday. This means 38 of the 57 Covid-19 positive cases have been discharged in the district so far. The district administration has tightened the entry points of the district to check on people arriving from various districts. As announced, Ariyalur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts observed a complete lockdown on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-more-from-koyambedu-test-positive-in-ariyalur-dist/articleshow/75524568.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Migrants in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad to get police passes to go back home||PUNE: The police departments in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have issued guidelines to allow migrant workers, students, pilgrims and tourists — stuck here since the announcement of lockdown — to return to their hometowns. Deputy commissioners of police Bachchan Singh and Sudhir Hiremath passed orders to this effect for Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police, respectively. Hiremath, however, clarified that his order won’t apply to those stuck in the 21 containment zones declared by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation on Sunday. Only those stranded in areas outside the containment zones will be allowed to return home, the order stated. PMRDA’s vigilance chief Sarang Awad will coordinate the transportation exercise through a special “migrant pass cell” set up at each of the 30 police stations in Pune. The stranded person must approach the local police station to submit an application for travel in a prescribed format, along with a fitness certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner and a written undertaking about the status of his/her health, the order stated. Also, the traveller will have to submit a letter — from the municipal authorities — stating that they are living in the red zone. Those wanting to travel in a group must appoint a team leader and can take help from local corporators, NGOs, company officers, among others to fill the forms. The applications will be cleared only if the applicants follow all norms. The civic authorities are required to give each of them a food packet and a bottle of sanitizer. In Pimpri Chinchwad, if fewer than five people wanted to travel outside the state or within the district, they can apply on covid19-mhpolice.in. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said that currently there are about 1 lakh workers in Pimpri Chinchwad. “We have started receiving applications,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrants-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-to-get-police-passes-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75524704.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Forced to ‘work without wages’, 21-yr-old labourer kills self||Bareilly: A labourer working at a brick kiln allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in Kalaan area of Shahjahanpur. His father claimed that he was forced to work for several days without any wages and when he demanded his share of money, he was allegedly beaten up by the contractor and owner of the brick kiln. Shahjahanpur superintendent of police has asked the local circle officer to probe the allegations, following which, an FIR will be lodged. Vinod alias Chotelal, 21, was a resident of Jhakiya village in Kalaan. He used to often stay at the brick kiln. On Sunday, other labourers at the brick kiln found him hanging from a large Jamun tree when they came to work. They immediately alerted police and local residents also rushed to the spot. His father Ramniwas said, “I had taken some loan from a contractor which he had already cleared but the contactor still forced them to work without making any further payment. On Friday, Vinod had refused to work further in the brick kiln and returned home but the contractor reportedly thrashed him and forcefully brought him to the brick kiln to work there. My son was already depressed and was forced to work like a bonded labour. He took the extreme step because of the contractor and brick kiln owner who always used to treat labourers like slaves. I have asked police to take strict action against them.” The contractor told police that regular payments are made to the labourers and Vinod committed suicide because he was not interested in working despite having taken an advance. Superintendent of police (rural) Arpana Gautam told TOI, “The allegations levelled by the family members are serious and I have asked the circle officer to probe the case. The labourers in the brick kiln are deployed through the contractor and we will see if the payments were regularly made. If the family’s allegations are found true then action would definitely be taken against the guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forced-to-work-without-wages-21-yr-old-labourer-kills-self/articleshow/75522867.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Class 9 girl develops ‘hygiene smartwatch’||HYDERABAD: A ninth standard student of a Zilla Parishad High School (ZPHS) in Gadwal district developed a smartwatch which detects the movement of hand whenever a person tries to shake hands or even tries to touch their face. The manufacturing cost of the device is Rs 50. Sreeja created the device by attaching a battery, plastic cap and iron ball with the help of wires to a normal watch. “When the hand is raised then an iron ball which is placed inside a plastic cap would move in the opposite direction (upwards) and that brings the positive terminal in contact with the negative one. Immediately, a buzzer sound would emanate and alerts the person who wears the watch,” said Sreeja, adding that the watch could be useful to Covid-19 positive patients among others. The young innovator said since coronavirus can spread through handshakes and by touching eyes, nose and mouth, she has created this smartwatch. She said that the beep sound is generated even when a person extends his hand for a handshake. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) took to Twitter to let the world know about the teenager’s innovation. A video posted by the cell showed Sreeja demonstrating her innovation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/class-9-girl-develops-hygiene-smartwatch/articleshow/75524205.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district farmers take their produce to consumers’ doorsteps||VIJAYAWADA: While farmers across the state have been facing problems marketing their produce during the lockdown, a few farmers from Thotlavalluru mandal in Krishna district have turned this crisis into an opportunity. Sri Vigneswara Farmers Producer Company Limited (SVFPC), which started door-to-door sales of vegetables, received a huge response from the citizens and is now looking to take their sales online. Vegetable markets across the city were closed when the lockdown came into effect and the marketing department established makeshift rythu bazaars at playgrounds and open spaces in the city. Farmers faced problems selling their products as the supply chain got damaged. The horticulture department swung into the action and motivated farmers’ producers’ organisations (FPO) to sell their produce directly to sellers. The measures taken by officials received a positive response from farmers as they are able to sell their produce without interference from middlemen. The SVFPC, which started door-to-door sale of vegetables during the lockdown, decided to start an online vegetable delivery mobile application and website to market farmers’ produce. “We have started the FPO in October 2013 and engaged 846 farmers in and around Chagantipadu village of Thotlavalluru mandal. We usually cultivate bananas and sell them to the bulk traders. We have constructed our own ripening chambers, grading units, and farm equipment with the support of the horticulture department. We used to get poor profits with the interference of the middlemen. But the lockdown period helped us find an easy way to sell our stock. We will continue door-to-door sale after the lockdown too and also start the online sale,” said Kolli Kesava Chandramohan Reddy, chairman of SVFPC. B Dayakar Babu, assistant director of horticulture, speaking with TOI, called for farmers to make use of subsidies and schemes implemented by the government for their welfare. “We are happy that farmers learned many new things during the lockdown. The SVFPC availed around Rs 1 crore subsidy from government and we have decided to support them in providing vehicles for the door-to-door sale of veggies. Their idea of starting a mobile application is revolutionary, which will help farmers overcome marketing problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-take-their-produce-to-consumers-doorsteps/articleshow/75522876.cms||Venu Lanka
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Forest guard shot at after trespasser’s gun ‘misfires’||TRICHY: A 31-year-old forest guard suffered a neck injury while chasing a trespasser in the Thuraiyur forest when a bullet misfired from the unlicensed gun carried by the trespasser. Veerapandian, the forest guard, is getting treated at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and is out of danger. Veerapandian was part of the six-member team on night patrol when they spotted light in Kanapadi reserve forest. Confirming it to be a trespasser wearing a head lamp, the team surrounded the trespasser as he came closer. The forest team chased the perpetrator who dropped his gun and fled the spot. “The single barrel muzzle loading (SBML) gun misfired and hit Veerapandian on the right side of his neck. It could have been fatal had the bullet inched any closer,” said Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha. Veerapandian was rushed to a primary health centre in Thuraiyur in an ambulance for first aid. He was later shifted to MGMGH for further treatment Thuraiyur police arrested the accused identified as S Muthukrishnan, 26, from Uppiliapuram. He was booked for attempt to murder under section 308 of the IPC and under the Arms Act 1959 for possession of unlicensed weapon. Police suspect it to be a case of attempted poaching. According to forest officials, this is the third incident of trespassing into Thuraiyur forest in the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-guard-shot-at-after-trespassers-gun-misfires/articleshow/75524573.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Work on 6 projects under coastal plan to start in month||Panaji: Following the Centre recently giving its approval to six projects in the state under the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan (ICZMP), altogether worth Rs 53 crore, work is set to commence within a month. The state had submitted around 12 projects to be under taken under the ICZMP for a total cost of over Rs 200 crore. The Union government had approved the funds based on the preliminary project report, which was readied by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai. Under the ICZMP, Goa will take up a pilot project on waste (non-biodegradable) to energy plant at a cost of Rs 31.9 crore, carry out assessment and documentation of potential coastal fishery zones at a cost of Rs 8 crore, the ICZMP plan at Rs 6 crore, establish and designate coastal sand dune parks at Rs 2.6 crore, study the marine biodiversity of critical marine habitats of Goa along with conservation measures and a management plan at the cost of Rs 1 crore, carry out erosion/accretion assessment studies to ascertain feasibility of annual replenishment of sand along the estuaries stretches of Goa at the cost of Rs 4 crore. A senior officer said that tenders will be issued to invite bidders for the setting up of the waste-to-energy plant while the rest of the projects will mostly be taken through government agencies. The officer said that the restoration of sand dunes will be taken up by the Goa biodiversity board. Funding for the projects will be shared between the World Bank (50%), central government (30%) as grants, and the state government (20%), the officer said. The NCSCM has made the detailed project report (DPR) for three projects, including that of the marine biodiversity study, establishing of coastal sand dune parks and erosion/accretion assessment studies to ascertain feasibility of annual replenishment of sand along estuarine stretches. Under the first phase, Gujarat and Odisha were taken up while the rest of the states have been taken up under the second phase. TOI was the first to report that Goa could lose Rs 400 crore for coastal development under the ICZMP project as the government failed to submit the DPR to the environment ministry. Based in the TOI report then chief minister Manohar Parrikar directed the authorities to go ahead with the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-6-projects-under-coastal-plan-to-start-in-month/articleshow/75524577.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: In mourning, model village ensures social distancing||PALANPUR: In normal times, death in the village would have been a mass mourning with all residents joining in. But Punsari, which has won national accolades for being a ‘model tech-savvy village,’ set another example on Sunday by following lockdown rules even in mourning. A 24-year-old woman Sonal Rawad died after she suffered an heart attack while working in the field. But the young sarpanch Himanshu Patel did not yield to emotions and ensured that only six persons perform her last rites. Two of these people were policemen, who carried the woman’s bier, along with her husband, to the crematorium. Talking to TOI, Patel said, “Rawad suffered an acute chest pain, but before she could get any medical help, she collapsed from the massive heart attack and died. The doctor who was called at the spot declared her dead.” However, unlike such situations in normal times when grieving turns into a social gathering, the village head allowed only six people, including her husband Rahul (27) and three others. “We were in a shock. But we also had to strictly observe lockdown norms. Therefore, we decided not to allow more than six persons to participate in the last rites. Along with the deceased’s husband Rahul Rawad (27), three other relatives and two cops from the village police station joined the procession and performed the last rites, strictly observing social distancing norms,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-mourning-too-punsari-maintains-rules/articleshow/75522893.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Over half of new cases in AP reported in Kurnool||Tirupati: The four Rayalaseema districts of Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur accounted for 38 of the 58 new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, of which Kurnool district reported 30 new cases. The state tally rose to 1,583 on Sunday. Kurnool district, a hotspot for the virus, accounts for 466 cases. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian said of the 30 cases, 28 were located in Kurnool city, while two were reported under Kodumur limits in the district. Kurnool city also accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the district with eight casualties so far, while two deaths have been reported from Nandyal and Panyam. While 77 patients have been treated successfully and discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in the district so far, 379 patients are undergoing treatment. In view of the rising number of cases in the district, the state government assigned a team of 205 MBBS doctors to Covid-19 duties in Kurnool from Monday. The district police wing announced that lockdown measures will continue to be enforced in a stringent manner, particularly in red zones. Since March 23, the district police wing has booked 3,817 cases against lockdown violators. In Anantapur district, seven new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the district tally to 78 on Sunday. With four deaths so far and 24 patients treated and discharged, the number of patients undergoing treatment stands at 50. With most of the cases being reported in Hindupur, Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu held a review meeting with officials of the district administration and directed them to ensure stringent efforts are in place. In Chittoor district, one case was reported in the temple city of Tirupati on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 81.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-half-of-new-cases-in-ap-reported-in-kurnool/articleshow/75522883.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: EFLU to hold online exams from May 22||HYDERABAD: The English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU), Hyderabad, has decided to conduct the end-semester exams from May 22, modifying the guidelines given be University Grants Commission (UGC). The decision was taken in an academic council meeting on Saturday. The administration decided to conduct remedial classes from May 4 to May 15, following which the end-semester examination will be held online from May 22 to June 2. In line with the UGC guidelines, the exam duration has also been reduced. “In view of the existing conditions, the duration of the end-semester examination is reduced to two hours from the earlier three hours,” read a press release issued by EFLU. As per the revised calendar, all the students have to submit their assignments for internal assessment on or before May 21. Submission of projects/dissertations will be accepted online from May 22 to 2 June. The final semester students who wish to improve their grades, in the subjects concerned, will be given a one-time chance in the next semester whenever the university conducts examinations either online or offline depending on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-to-hold-online-exams-from-may-22/articleshow/75524202.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Jera village tiger dies15 minute's after being tranquilized||Pilibhit: A five-year-old tiger died 15 minutes after it was tranquilized at Jari village on Sunday evening. While forest officials claimed that the big cat died of earller wounds, some wildlife activists suspect it died due to overdose of tranquilizers.The tiger had strayed out of Mala range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and attacked three people on Jari canal towroad, 1 km from the forest on Friday morning.It had also attacked a team of forest force personnel that had come to drive it back to the reserve.The presence of the tiger had brought agricultural activities to a virtual standstill at Jari village, under Gajraula police station.Since then, a foresters team had been monitoring the elusive big cat's movement by installing camera traps in the area.Unable to drive it back to the forest, a team of veterinary officers, headed by Dr SK Rathaur, a local government veterinary officer, arrived at the village on Sunday in order to tranquilize the tiger and later, release into the wild.The tiger was spotted and tranquilizer darts were fired on it. But the big cat died within 15 minutes after it was tranquilized.Deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said the tiger collapsed during the period it was under medical observation. “The tiger had three wounds in its trachea, as a result of which it died," Khandelwal said.Kaushalendra Singh, a wildlife activist based in Lucknow, said he suspected that the tiger's death was an outcome of overdoze of tranquilizer.Referring to information of forest staff present at the spot during the operation, Singh claimed that the tiger was hit with four darts one after another.Earller, chief conservator of Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, had informed mediapersons that the veterinary team used only two darts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/jera-village-tiger-dies15-minutes-after-being-tranquilized/articleshow/75522881.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC needs additional Rs1,150cr to take care of city’s total sewage||Nagpur: Pollution of water bodies and groundwater will continue to some extent even after completion of Rs2,412 crore Nag-Pili Rivers Pollution Abatement Project. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will need more Rs1,150 crore to ensure treatment and reuse of entire city’s sewage. It has come to fore from budget presented by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. As per details given in budget copy and information available from NMC officials, the civic body has divided entire city into three zones for sewage collection and disposal — North, Central and South zones. Total sewage network in three zones is around 3,500km. As of now, 1,475km sewage network is properly laid. Need is for laying new sewage network of 2,025km. The central and state governments had approved NMC’s Nag-Pili Rivers Pollution Abatement Project costing Rs2,412 crore. The centre had approached Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for getting loan for the project. The project covers North and Central Sewage zones, and not South zone. Sewage network of 1,362.50km will be laid in North and Central Sewage Zones. Also, sewage treatment plants (STPs) will be developed. With all these works, entire sewage of North and Central zones will be collected, treated and reuse. It will also free Nag, Pili rivers, connected water bodies and groundwater from pollution. South Sewage zone, which requires network of 662.50km and STPs, also need to be taken up. The zone covers all areas of South-West and South constituency. Apart from these areas, Pora river, linked water bodies and groundwater will continue to be polluted. Pora river ends in Nag river on city’s outskirts. It means Kanhan, Wainganga rivers and Gosikhurd dam will continue to be polluted to some extent. In prevailing cash-strapped conditions, the NMC cannot take up the project as it will require Rs1,150 crore. Former mayor and BJP city president Pravin Datke told TOI Maha Vikas Aghadi should sanction South Sewage zone. “Devendra Fadnavis had approved Nag-Pili rivers project during his tenure as chief minister. Union minister Nitin Gadkari had got it sanctioned at central level. Now, it is the responsibility of MVA government’s ministers to get the project approved for city’s development,” he said. Datke added that Fadnavis and Gadkari had planned to approve South Sewage zone project from centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme but detailed project report (DPR) could not be prepared from the NMC. “Mundhe too has stressed need for the project. Therefore, being representative of the government, he should get it sanctioned from the state soon,” he said. Many areas of South-West and South constituencies have complaints about sewage blockage. Also, new areas are coming up in these constituencies. These problems will be resolved if government approves South Sewage zone project. LET FUNDS FLOW * City is divided into North, Central and South zones for sewage collection and disposal * Nag-Pili Rivers Pollution Abatement Project covers North and Central zones * Government had approved the project costing Rs2,412 crore * South Sewage zone will require Rs1,150 crore for laying new sewage network of 662.50km and STPs * Otherwise, Pora river, linked water bodies and groundwater of South-West and South constituencies will continue to get polluted * Also, Kanhan, Wainganga rivers and Gosikhurd project will continue to be polluted to some extent * NMC cannot execute the project due to financial crisis * This project also needs approval from the state and central governments||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-needs-additional-rs1150cr-to-take-care-of-citys-total-sewage/articleshow/75537923.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra government’s flip-flop over opening of shops sparks complete confusion in its wake||PUNE: Multiple orders at several levels, circulation through social media and lack of coordination in issuing them among the enforcement authorities have left business owners and citizens completely confused about if and when neighbourhood shops will be open. Grocery owners have permission to operate from 10am to 2pm, but the police have their own rules and tell shops to shut down by noon. Citizens said the police do one thing while the Pune Municipal Corporation does another. The orders push for one rule, but the ground situation is something else. Sanjay Chugh, who owns a hardware store in Rasta Peth, said businessmen are reluctant to open their shops because there is no clear communication from the authorities. “All we want to know is whether we can open our shops or not, and at what time. There is so much false information being forwarded. We have not received any information from local authorities about whether we can resume business as usual or not, and what measures should be taken,” Chugh said. Deepak Patil, a member of the Kharadi Residents Welfare Association, said, “There should be a proper area-wise categorisation and the relaxations in each area at the time of issuing orders. After it is issued, citizens keep wondering if it was applicable for them or not. Social media messages and their interpretation adds to the confusion.” The Swachh Kalyaninagar group has been coordinating with the enforcement authorities like the police or civic body to interpret the orders and convey it to citizens. Purnima Joshi, a member, said, “We have a robust platform where information is verified and posted. In other areas there is certainly an issue, especially with respect to essential items, transport, medical facilities like someone needing injections.” Anamika Godbole, who runs a tea and snacks shop near NIBM, said, “We are taking it one day at a time. Every day that we are closed is a big loss for us. We were looking forward to opening the shop after May 3, but now the lockdown has been extended so we don’t know when we can go back to business.” She gets her news from online websites and WhatsApp forwards and wants her property and staff to remain safe. She will open only after there is confirmation about the opening. Meena Kaur from Salunke Vihar was under the impression that shops will be open after May 3. “I read that all non-essential shops will also open, and I thought it included liquor shops as well. But that is not the case in Pune. I also read that red zones will have some relaxation but there seems to be none. We need a list of what can be opened,” she said. Many shopkeepers on Salunke Vihar Road remained confused about opening. “ The stretch of Salunke Vihar Road from ABC Farms to Kondhwa Road has many shops selling essential and non-essential items apart from a liquor shop. There are close to 50 small and big shops along the stretch. I don’t understand this five shop opening rule at all. My confectionery is located near a clinic and a medicine shop. The administration should explain clearly whether I can open my shop. We need to open immediately as the losses are huge. How will the five shop opening formula work when there are so many shops, ” the owner who chose to remain anonymous told TOI. Along BG Lonkar Road in the same area, a shopkeeper wanted to know how only five shops would open and who will pick them. “Every few days, a new order comes up. Authorities say we are not supposed to open at all, sometimes they come up with a new but confusing order. This road has around 30-40 shops, including liquor stores, medicine shops, groceries and shops selling non-essential items too. We are confused and will wait for clarity,” another shopkeeper said. Rafiq Shaikh, an electrician in Kharadi, said clients were calling up from Wadgaonsheri and Chandannagar saying that their fans or lights were not working. “Even if I make it to that area, I have no way to get spares, because shops are closed. I get my supply from a friend, but he can’t open his shop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govts-flip-flop-over-opening-of-shops-sparks-utters-confusion-in-its-wake/articleshow/75524706.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 4, 2020||Trichy||How shrinks chipped in to cure Covid patients||TRICHY: When a 26-year-old man from Chinnavarapalayam of Karur district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday after his return from Chennai, he was found blaming himself for making his family members and people in the neighbourhood vulnerable to infection. Once he reached the medical college hospital, he started showing signs of depression. He got stressed up emotionally and went a step ahead to share videos in the social media weeping and sobbing while blaming himself. To give him mental support, Karur government medical college hospital dean Dr E Theranirajan called him over phone to say that even the British prime minister wasn’t an exception. Besides, he can feel better as none of his contacts were tested positive so far. Apart from monitoring positive patients, it is the effective mental health care given to the patients at the hospital that has helped patients recover, said medical staff at the hospital. A team of eight trained counsellors and three psychiatrists have been keeping track of the mental health of patients through constant interactions. Apart from daily counseling, audio or video calls by psychiatrists helped patients take control over their emotions. Shock and denial was the first reaction when we reveal them of their infection, which later develops into anger. They start showing symptoms of depression before accepting the reality. “Our intervention comes during depression, as they become sleepless and lose appetite. They will have suicidal ideas and crying spells,” said N S Kumar, faculty from department of psychiatry. “Out of the 168 positive patients from Karur, Namakkal and Dindigul districts, we have administered medication to 4-5 patients who had symptoms of anxiety or depression,” he said. Asked on the reasons for depression among patients, Kumar said some had severe stress over social stigma of being avoided by the society after returning home. Some were worried about their names appearing in news reports. We had no other go but to go for anti-depressant drugs to keep them calm,” said S Balamurugan, another faculty member. We also had to counsel around 10 parents whose children were admitted to the hospital. But once patients started going home after recovery, they began building hope, he said. We will tailor questions in a way to get the reason for their depression by constantly speaking to them. By giving sedatives, we ensured that such people get adequate sleep, which helped them boost their immunity, said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/how-shrinks-chipped-in-to-cure-covid-patients/articleshow/75524578.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 4, 2020||Pune||2 cops in spot for a shave in salon during lockdown||Pune: A shave, followed by a face massage, at a salon during the lockdown has landed two police constables in a spot. The Pune rural police have transferred the two constables after they were caught red handed getting a shave inside the salon in Junnar. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. The Junnar police have registered an offence against the salon operator for functioning during the lockdown. Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandip Patil has initiated a departmental inquiry against the two. Satish Dake, a member of the association of salons in Junnar, has lodged an FIR. The Junnar police said the salon was located in a commercial complex in Junnar. “As all the shops are closed, the operator used to allow the customers into his salon through a rear door,” a Junnar police officer from said. On May 2, some members of the association received a tip-off that the salon operator was functioning clandestinely despite the restrictions. “The members went to the shop and found two policemen inside,” the officer said, adding, “They were found having a face massage after the shave.” He said they approached the police and lodged an FIR. “The constables are from the state reserve police force and were posted in Junnar for bandobast duty,” the officer said. “The two constables have been transferred to Baramati and an inquiry has been initiated against them,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-cops-in-spot-for-a-shave-in-salon-during-lockdown/articleshow/75524709.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Kurnool MP writes to DGP||Tirupati: Kurnool MP Sanjeev Kumar Singari has written to the director general of police, seeking help to bring back 400 odd students stranded in Punjab. In the letter, the Kurnool MP stated that nearly 400 students from Andhra Pradesh were stranded at the Lovely Professional University in Punjab because of the lockdown. “Most of the students from other states are being evacuated by their respective governments. I request you to take initiative to negotiate with the local government and make arrangements to bring back our students,,” Singari wrote. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kurnool-mp-writes-to-dgp/articleshow/75522898.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 4, 2020||Mysuru||Youths oppose reopening of bar, detained||Mysuru: Krishnaraja police took two youths into custody who were protesting in front of a wine store opposing its scheduled reopening on Monday. The youths, residing in Sunnadakeri, are among many who are not in favour of reopening of the wine store located on Narayana Shastri Road. The excise department staff are preparing for reopening of bars and wine stores in the city as part of easing lockdown restrictions. Sunnadakeri residents argued with police that Mysuru district is still in the red zone and opening of wine shops will lead to crowding and eventually lead to spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youths-oppose-reopening-of-bar-detained/articleshow/75522071.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Students, professionals take to online courses amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: Graduates and professionals from the city are increasingly opting for remote learning and upskilling courses during the extended lockdown as e-learning websites have seen elevated traffic. UXReactor Inc, a California-based design consulting firm with its presence in Hyderabad, has seen a significant rise in its open training platform. “With the Covid-19 outbreak, we are seeing a decent rise of about 150% in traffic every week, as more people are looking for opportunities to upskill and reskill,” Prasad Kantamneni, co-founder of UXReactor told TOI. The company has also started a reading group on the world-renowned professional network Linkedin, with the hashtag #uxreactorcampusoutreach. Ramping up the digital education platform, city-based YuppTV has launched an ed-tech platform called ‘YuppMaster’. “In the light of Covid-19 lockdown, the edtech platform is currently offering free education to all IIT-JEE/NEET aspirants in 12th grade. YuppMaster’s individual courses involve three to six hours of live classes every day, in which students are able to clear their doubts in real-time via live chat,” said Uday Reddy, CEO and founder of YuppTV & YuppMaster. To increase student engagement, Adda247 has launched a 21-day challenge for community activities in the form of free mock tests. The platform is also providing test preparation courses at an affordable price. “We are trying to empower our learning user base, which also comprises less affluent students with limited economic means,” said Anil Nagar, CEO and Founder of Adda247.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-professionals-take-to-online-courses-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75524216.cms||Arya Sharan
May 4, 2020||Bareilly||Lockdown woes: Stranded in Nepal, 25 labourers from UP appeal for help||Bareilly: At least 25 labourers of UP's Moradabad are currently stuck in Butwal, Nepal - around 700 km away from home. All packed in one small room inside a factory, they not only face shortage of food or money but are extremely worried of getting infected by Covid-19. With the ongoing lockdown in both the countries, these distressed labourers have now made an urgent appeal to the Central government in Delhi to bring them home. In a video clip widely circulated on social networking sites, the labourers could be seen pleading for immediate assistance after being left stranded for over two months. “We are running out of food, money and have no sufficient space to sleep since we are forced to use a common room," they could be heard saying. With families also struggling back home to feed themselves, and left with very little hope, these 25 men have now requested PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath to take note of their plight. On Sunday, one of the stranded labourers, Waseem Khan told TOI, "We had requested our factory authorities to provide us with transport facility, but they declined. We have been told that we can’t move from here until the lockdown is lifted." The resident of Katghar in Moradabad said that the stranded group is facing tremendous hardships. "We are living in one room inside the factory where we work with very limited ration." Worryingly, the possibility of getting infected by corona is real, he said, as they cannot follow social distancing, they don't have any face masks or sanitisers. Another member of Khan's stranded group, Mohammed Shareef said, “Ever since lockdown came into force, work has been shut. And so, we cannot earn any money to survive. So far, we were using the ration in limited quantities, but it is also running out." Shareef claimed that they had requested for ration from the factory authorities in Nepal but they asked us to "make our own arrangements". "We, therefore, request our country's authorities to help us out,” the labourer pleaded after going through a harrowing two-month experience. The 25 workers which includes one from Nagina, Bijnor, had travelled to Butwal, near Sonauli, close to the Indo-Nepal border, to do metal works such as peeling and polishing in the neighbouring country's industrial area in February. Most of them are residents of Barbalan, Jama Masjid, Karula localities under Mughalpura and Katghar police stations of Moradabad. “My family [wife and two children] live in a rented place and we are very poor. There is no one to look after my family or to help my wife in getting food. She struggles daily to get household items due to lockdown. Also, we are left with very limited resources now,” another labourer Saabir Ali, a resident of Barbalan, said, summing up the dire situation of the 25 stranded labourers from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lockdown-woes-stranded-in-nepal-25-labourers-from-up-appeal-for-help/articleshow/75522896.cms||Maria Khan
May 4, 2020||Pune||Only twice-a-week night duty for Pune rural cops||PUNE: In an attempt to boost immunity, critical to warding off Covid-19, and to reduce stress, the Pune rural police have issued an order facilitating night duty for their personnel only two days per week. Close to 500 personnel are required every day for night duty at police check points across Pune district. At least five major highways cut through the district to connect important cities like Mumbai, Kolhapur, Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad. With the lockdown in place, the police have to keep a close eye on illicit transport of people and banned material under the garb of transportation of essentials. Most check points are located in semi-urban zones that are close to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporations, which have recorded a significantly high number of Covid-19 positive cases. Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandeep Patil told TOI, “Our personnel were engaged in night duty for several days in succession without a break and this is not advisable in the current situation. We have asked the officers in-charge of our police stations to follow the new night duty regime. The safety and security of our personnel is of utmost importance to us. No police personnel will perform night duty for more than two days a week. This will help maintain their physical and mental fitness.” He added, “We have distributed gloves, masks, sanitizers and soaps at each police station. Besides, at some places or checkpoints, our personnel are wearing personal protective equipment while checking vehicles. So far, not a single Covid-19 positive case has been recorded within the Pune rural police. In fact, police personnel with health conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes or serious ailments have been asked to report only at police stations.” Patil said, “We have also asked our personnel, not living in police quarters, to get their health check-up done at designated hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-twice-a-week-night-duty-for-pune-rural-cops/articleshow/75524708.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Eight patients discharged in Chittoor district||Tirupati: Eight Covid-19 patients were discharged from the hospitals in Chittoor district on Sunday. Meanwhile, with 81 positive coronavirus cases reported in the district so far, Chittoor is one among the 733 districts in the country and among the five districts in the state of Andhra Pradesh, declared as a red zone district, by the government of India. According to officials of the district administration, eight patients, including a 45-year-old woman and seven male patients aged between 21-49 years were discharged from the SVRR COVID-19 hospital in Tirupati on Sunday. While seven patients among those are from Srikalahasti, one patient belongs to Nindra. Out of 81 positive cases reported in the district so far, 43 patients were treated successfully and discharged. Meanwhile, with one fresh case reported at Padmavathi nagar locality in the temple city of Tirupati, the area was declared as a red zone and containment measures were initiated by the district administration on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eight-patients-discharged-in-chittoor-district/articleshow/75522887.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||IAF showers tribute on Covid warriors in Guj||Ahmedabad: India has been successfully fighting the Covid-19 pandemic with the frontline warriors being medical personnel, police, government staff, and volunteers. In a nationwide drive to boost the morale of Covid-19 frontline warriors, recognize their contribution and express solidarity with them, the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force organized demonstrations across the state and country.  In Gujarat, on Sunday, Indian Air Force MI-17 V5 helicopters showered flower petals over Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, and GMERS Hospital, Gandhinagar in the morning hours. In the background, there was a scintillating musical performance by South Western Air Command (SWAC) band. At about 11am, a flypast by a formation of three Su-30 fighter aircraft was conducted over the Gujarat legislative assembly building. People in the city watched from the terraces of their homes and flats as the Su-30 warrior jets flew over the Sabarmati riverfront. Even the hospital staff came out to see the MI-17 V5 helicopters showering flowers. However, at some places people forgot to maintain social distancing while watching the flower showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iaf-showers-tribute-on-covid-warriors-in-guj/articleshow/75524220.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Lack of demand leaves betel vine growers in dire straits||TRICHY: Betel vine farmers in Karur, Trichy and Thanjavur districts are facing losses to the tune of several lakhs of rupees due to the lockdown as they have been forced to destroy their produce owing to shortage of labour and transport facilities. There are less takers for betel leaf due to the absence of festivals and social gatherings like marriages, engagements, ear boring and house warming ceremonies, farmers lamented. Farmers from Pugalur, Velayuthampalayam, Thalavapalayam, Semangi, Nerur, Thirumukkoodalur, Mayanur, Lalapettai, Pichampatti, Krishnarayapuram and Kulithalai have raised the crop in hundreds of acres. “The lockdown has created a chain reaction including non-operation of trucks, closure of markets and no takers causing huge loss to the farmers in Karur district. Farmers usually raise the crop on around 1,500 acres in the district. Since there are no customers to buy, farmers dump their produce on their field itself,” said K Ramasamy, secretary of Betel Leaf Farmers Association. When contacted, assistant director of the horticulture department, Karur Kala said that farmers have cultivated the crop in various places. “Whatever help farmers have asked, officials have provided them,” she said. “We have asked farmers to set up their stall at the temporary vegetable markets. If anyone is willing, we will help them transport it,” she added. According to farmers from Thanjavur, they have cultivated the crop on 10,000 acres in Thirupoonthiruthi, Nadukavery, Manathidal, Senthalai, Varagur, and Thirukkattuppalli in Thiruvaiyar block alone. This apart, farmers from Kumbakonam and Papanasam have also cultivated betel leaves. P Sugumaran, a farmer from Thiruvaiyaru, has raised the crop on one acre. He claimed that he had spent Rs2.5 lakh to raise betel vines on an acre for two-and-a-half-years. “The first year there would not be any yield and harvest will begin after a year only. After two years, there is no need to spend money and it can be harvested for the next 6 months. However, due to the pandemic, no festivals or social gatherings are allowed, which has led to huge loss,” he added. “We could not get required labourers because of the lockdown and are facing losses. As the markets are closed, traders are not buying betel leaves as they are unable to sell them. The recent rainfall with gale also destroyed crops and worsened the situation for farmers. ”, said P Sugumaran, a farmer from Thiruvaiyaru block. “As far as betel vine was concerned, no crop loan, no insurance cover or guidance have been received from the horticulture officials,” he said, adding that government should consider their loss and announce financial assistance for them. In Trichy farmers from Thottiam grow betel vine on around 200 acres. They are also facing losses due to this lockdown. “If the government would announce any compensation, it would be helpful to mitigate the lockdown period,” said Gnanasekaran, a farmer from Musiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lack-of-demand-leaves-betel-vine-growers-in-dire-straits/articleshow/75524580.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Outgoing civic chief tested +ve for Covid?||Tirupati: Officials of the Kurnool district administration has gone into self-imposed home isolation following reports that the outgoing civic chief has reportedly tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Although officials are tight-lipped over the development, district collector G Veerapandian has called off all physical meets and been holding meetings with the officials of the district administration via teleconference in the last 48 hours, adding credence to the reports. It was learnt that the rush at the Kurnool GGH has increased in the last 48 hours, with several senior officials of the district administration as well as Kurnool civic body volunteering for Covid-19 screening. Meanwhile, as senior officials of the district administration go into home isolation, low-rank frontline workers are now worried about their health and safety. Many of the frontline workers are reluctant to work particularly in the red zones in the wake of a spike in the Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district in the last two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/outgoing-civic-chief-tested-ve-for-covid/articleshow/75522902.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Online course for AP teachers from today||VIJAYAWADA: With the focus shifting to digital learning during the pandemic, the state school education department will launch a self-learning programme for teachers from May 4. This is the second edition of the comprehensive learning enhancement programme (CLEP) for teachers. The first edition was held in February. There has been an increased demand from teachers following reforms in curriculum and textbook design. The training programme includes a live webinar series, self-assessment tests, relevant learning materials, offline videos and online tests. Attendance is mandatory for teachers of classes I to VI, while it is optional for teachers of other classes. Head, department of digital education and nodal officer of the programme for IT-related activities, Pokuri Srinivasa Rao, said teachers have to download and install the recently launched Abhyasa application. “We will leverage the AP State Council of Educational Research and Training’s YouTube channel ‘SCERT-AP’ for the webinar training series. After attending the webinar, teachers can access the reading material, webinar recorded video and self-assessment in the Abhyasa app. The self-assessment includes ten questions on the session,” said Srinivasa Rao. Digital learning and training has assumed importance with educational institutions suspending academic activities during the lockdown. The online training sessions will include ‘21st century skills for global learners’, ‘ICT in the primary classroom’, ‘multilingualism as an approach in the teaching of English in primary classroom’, among others. The progress of each teacher will be monitored at headquarters through the dashboard. A certificate will be awarded to those who successfully complete the course. A test will be conducted at the end of the training session, besides the daily assessments. The education department recently conducted a five-day webinar session to train teachers on e-content creation. Teachers were trained on search engines, image repositories, Photoshop, Diksha workplace, video-making softwares and techniques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-course-for-teachers-from-today/articleshow/75522913.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 4, 2020||Goa||Meeting on preservation of basilica to be held tomorrow||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has called for a meeting on Tuesday to pave the way forward for the restoration of the world heritage monument, the Basilica of Bom Jesus. A meeting of stakeholders was called by the chief minister after his visit to the Basilica last week and was scheduled on Friday. However, Friday being a holiday, it was postponed to Tuesday. Sawant has expressed the need to constitute a board consisting of representatives from the Church, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the government, who can responsibly take care of heritage monuments and places of worship across the state. After a complaint of ASI negligence during repair work of the roof by rector Patricio Fernandes, Sawant had inspected the monument last week. ASI has expedited the repair work following visits by the chief minister, deputy chief minister and other MLAs. The ASI has now engaged a local contractor after the original contractor from Aurangabad could not travel to the state during the lockdown. It has also assured that the roof work will be completed by May 10. Fernandes said that if the ASI is unable to protect the monument, there should be a provision for others to do a professional job of protecting, conserving and restoring the deteriorating areas of the basilica. “Had they to work as they have been doing now with the urgency and determination, they would have finished the work very well on time within two months and would given us the repaired roof and the ceiling by March,” Fernandes said. “However, I am convinced that the damage is done. The statues on the altars are already showing sign of deterioration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/meeting-on-preservation-of-basilica-to-be-held-tomorrow/articleshow/75524582.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||Centre to send 20 teams to worst-hit dists||NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to deploy 20 public health teams in as many affected districts with maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases to assist states in implementation of containment strategy to combat the infectious disease. The 20 districts — in nine states besides Delhi — are Mumbai, Thane and Pune in Maharashtra; Bhopal and Indore in MP; Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat; south east and central districts in Delhi; Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan; Agra and Lucknow in UP; Hyderabad in Telangana; Chennai in TN; Kolkata in Bengal; and Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-to-send-20-teams-to-worst-hit-dists/articleshow/75524831.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Trichy||Return of guest workers may hit reopening of Karur industrial units||TRICHY: Guest workers returning to their native places in the wake of the pandemic outbreak is likely to affect the opening of industrial units in Karur district. The workforce in the industrial units, especially in the textile and mosquito net manufacturing sectors are mostly workers from outside the state in Karur district. “At least 50-60% of the units may not be able to operate as 80% of the work force is guest labours,” says president of Karur Traditional HDPE Yarn and Mosquito Net Knitted Fabrics Manufacturing Association C Suresh. We have supported the workers for the last 45 days. The state government too has distributed relief materials twice during the lockdown. When the industrial units are almost ready to start operations in a day or two, sending the migrant workers will affect the production, he said. Another manufacturer said that many of our workers are confused over taking a decision on returning to their home town. While Covid-19 outbreak has been contained effectively in Tamil Nadu except for Chennai, other states have been struggling to keep the spread under control. Speaking to TOI, deputy director of industrial safety and health, Karur district, P Suseela said that in Karur, there are more than 5,200 guest workers, mostly from West Bengal, Orissa, Jharkhand, Bihar and Maharashtra. Around 2,000 of them are working in 100 odd mosquito net manufacturing units in the district. Most of them are either illiterate or understands only their mother tongue. We have asked their respective employers to help those who want to go home register online, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/return-of-guest-workers-may-hit-reopening-of-karur-industrial-units/articleshow/75524581.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 4, 2020||Trichy||6 youth fined Rs 15,000 each for hunting hares||THANJAVUR: Forest department officials have fined six minors for hunting black-naped hares in a reserve forest near Pattukottai in the district, on Saturday. The incident came to light after the group uploaded a video of the hunted hares on Tik-Tok. “Since the hunters were school students aged between 16 to 17, considering their future, forest officials let them go after imposing a penalty of Rs 15,000 each without registering any case against them,” district forest officer S Gurusamy, said. The six minors, all residents of Ettupulikkadu village near Pattukottai, had trespassed and hunted four black-naped hares a few days back.Pattukottai range forest officer Iqbal and his team identified the minors in the video and conducted an inquiry during which they confessed.“The minors had hunted the black-naped hares in the reserve forest and posted a video on Tik-Tok. Being school boys, we did not book them under Wildlife Protection Act. However, we let them go after collecting fine as per the rule,” DFO S Gurusamy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-youth-fined-rs-15k-each-for-hunting-hares/articleshow/75524583.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Rajkot||Three more positive cases in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot city recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases, taking the number of total positive cases to 62. “The three positive cases are from one family identified as Iqbal Halani (42), his wife Yasmin Halani (38) and Shahid Halani (16). They were quarantined at Samras Hostel after they had come in contact with Covid-19 positive Finaz Qureshi,” said an official from the health department of Rajkot Municipal Corporation. All the three patients are from Jangleshwer locality, the Covid-19 hotspot of Rajkot. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-more-positive-cases-in-rajkot/articleshow/75522923.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Can Chinturu in East Godavari serve as model for Covid containment?||RAJAHMUNDRY: Strict compliance to advisories, discipline among tribal people and concerted efforts of the health department, police and revenue department has helped the Agency area in East Godavari keep the dreaded corona virus at bay. The tribal peoples’ approach to the lockdown could well serve as a lesson for the urbane middle classes. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Chinturu—comprising Chinturu, Koonavaram, VR Puram and Yetapaka mandals—stands out as a shining example. Despite sharing borders with three states— Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Telangana—and facing a huge influx of migrant labourers from these states, not a single Covid-19 case has been registered in this tribal area. Ramana, project officer of ITDA-Chinturu said, “We are coping with the influx of migrants from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana who work in chilli cultivation by setting up village and mandal-level check-posts. If a migrant wants to leave, they are being sent to their home state after staying in quarantine for a while.” He said that rations are being delivered to the 42,000 ration card holders in the division with the help of 1,000 village volunteers and NGOs. Additionally, food baskets comprising vegetables and other essentials are being distributed among the tribals living on hilltop villages, he said. The project officer said that tribal people have supported their efforts in stopping gatherings for festivals and marriage ceremonies. Further, NREGS works have been ramped up to pump in money into the economy. Nearly 100 persons including migrant workers in the area have been tested using the rapid diagnostic kits and another 300 hundred tests will be conducted with Trunat RT-PCR technology in coming days, said Ramana. While village volunteers have taken up the job of distributing essentials, the administration is considering using the services of teachers in the area to raise awareness. Women cops and local volunteers are checking smuggling of illicit liquor. Twenty quarantine centres have been kept ready to handle 2,000 people, if needed. Facilitation centres have been set up for migrant labourers. Around 60 migrant labourers are ready to go back to Odisha and the ITDA is making arrangements. The area is also a hotbed of Maoist activity. Arif Hafeez, additional charge, officer on special duty, said that friendly policing in the area is yielding good results. Police are distributing rations and soap among residents. Hafeez said that the residents of the area have been proactive in taking precautions. They are practising social distancing even at small grocery shops in remote villages and aren’t allowing outsiders into the villages. Dr Padmaja, deputy district medical and health officer said that a 600-member army of health officials is deployed through eight primary health centres, the community health centre in Koonavaram and the area hospital in Chinturu. She said that health staff is reaching hilltop villages to maintain surveillance. She informed that six samples have been tested, all of which have been negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/can-chinturu-in-eg-serve-as-model-for-covid-containment/articleshow/75522919.cms||Samson Raj
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 21-year-old gifts gardening kits in exchange for donations||HYDERABAD: A 21-year-old is giving a surprise gardening mini kit worth Rs 85 to all those who donate more than Rs 200 to the online crowd-funding campaign started by him to help those in need during lockdown. The BBA final year student, Rohith Gali, who started the campaign ‘Garden for a Cause - Covid-19 Hunger Relief and Medical Support’ on Milaap, believes that the green reward will encourage more people to donate for the cause and at the same time inculcate gardening habits in them. “I believe that every good act deserves a token of appreciation. Giving people a mini-gardening kit after they make a donation to help those who are in need of food and other essentials is our way of appreciating them and encouraging more people to come forward for this cause,” said Gali. “Through this fund-raising campaign, we are aiming to help at least 1000 to 1500 people. Apart from that, we are also reaching out to stray animals who do not get food due to eateries being closed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-yr-old-gifts-gardening-kits-in-exchange-for-donations/articleshow/75524232.cms||Moulika.KV
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Provide passes to 38 stuck in Delhi: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi wrote to home minister Amit Shah and Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar, urging them to provide travel passes to 38 people stuck in Delhi after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz in March. In the letter, Owaisi said even though these 38 from Telangana tested negative and completed quarantine, they were not able to return home as inter-state transport came to a standstill due to lockdown. “In light of your ministry’s recent notification, now permitting migrants to return to their home states, I request that the concerned persons be discharged from quarantine facilities and be issued a travel pass to return to Telangana,” read the letter. Markaz attendees have been quarantined in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/provide-passes-to-38-stuck-in-delhi-owaisi/articleshow/75524234.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Car overturns in Alair, inspector dies||Hyderabad: A reserve inspector, who was working at the Police Training College (PTC) in Warangal, died after the vehicle he was travelling in overturned in Alair in the wee hours of Sunday. Alair police said that 36-year-old V Karnudu was travelling to Hyderabad in a department car. When he reached Alair at around 6.30 am, one of the two back tyres of the car deflated, while on the move and the vehicle overturned. “Karnudu, who was at the wheel, hit the windshield before he fell out of the vehicle and suffered severe injuries. When he was shifted to the hospital, he was declared dead,” Alair sub-inspector E Ramesh told TOI. Karnudu, was driving the car due to a shortage of drivers at the time. He is survived by his wife and two children. He is a 2014 batch officer and a native of Gudur in Mahabubnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-overturns-in-alair-inspector-dies/articleshow/75524240.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Goa||Ajgaonkar must apologise to police: Cong||Panaji: The state Congress unit has sought an “immediate apology” from deputy chief minister and tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar for calling Goa’s entire police department corrupt. State Congress spokesperson Vithu Moraskar said that the recent public spat between BJP ministers Ajgaonkar and Michael Lobo showed that chief minister Pramod Sawant has no control over the cabinet ministers. “Blaming the whole police department was very erroneous. It is a pitiful scene that in this pandemic of Covid-19 Goa Police is shown as corrupt and wrapped in a blanket of allegations,” Moraskar said. The party has threatened to protest in favour of Goa police if Ajgaonkar does not apologise. “Instead of promoting police inspectors who have rendered service of 27 years, these officers have to face allegations by their own government,” Moraskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ajgaonkar-must-apologise-to-police-cong/articleshow/75524586.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Pune||Now, only 3 per cent of Pune a containment zone; curfew remains but some curbs eased||PUNE: Nearly 97% of the Pune metropolitan area is no longer a containment zone though the entire city remains a red zone, with reliefs announced by the state and central governments to be applicable from Monday. This means barely 3% or 9.93sq km of the total 331.26sq km of the Pune municipal corporation area is now a containment zone while 2.9% or 5.25sq km of the total 181sq km jurisdiction of areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits have been demarcated as containment zones as per orders issued by the two municipal commissioners.. A day after holding firm on its stand not to relax restrictions in Mumbai and Pune, the state government on Sunday allowed standalone and neighbourhood shops for non-essential items, including liquor, to reopen across the state. Accordingly, five non-essential shops can operate per lane. The concession applies even in the red zone areas of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), Pune district and Malegaon township, though not in containment zones. Late on Sunday night, the Pune police passed a fresh order extending the curfew under section 144(3)(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure across the city till midnight of May 17. However, the order issued by joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve categorically states that barring the 3% containment areas, the curfew will not be applicable for activities such as construction, pre-monsoon and metro works, and the operation of five non-essential shops per lane, among other activities allowed under the red zone guidelines of the state government.Both the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police have come up with certain modifications in the restrictions (see box) related to the containment and the non-containment zones where shops selling essentials like milk, dairy products, vegetable, fruits, chicken, mutton and grocery will be allowed to operate from 10am to 2pm and from 10am to 6pm respectively. Besides five non-essential shops per lane, standalone shops in residential societies, essential services in shopping malls, e-commerce and in-situ constructions — sites where workers are already residing and are not required to be brought in from outside — will commence operation from Monday. No movement of individuals or vehicles will be allowed after 7pm till 7am. Citizens above age 65 years, high-risk individuals — those suffering from diabetes, high BP, asthama, liver and kidney ailment, cancer and HIV; pregnant women and children aged below 10 will not be allowed to step out of their homes in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, unless there is an emergency or medical requirement. However, there was ambiguity over the provision of allowing only five shops selling non-essential items to remain open per lane. The reduction in the containment zone area is a major change from April 20 when the entire Pune city was declared a containment zone, all entry/exits were sealed and curfew was imposed across the PMC limits till midnight of May 3. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad’s order on Sunday restricts the containment zone to specific locations — referred to as “micro containment zones” — that remain severely affected by Covid-19. The PMC has declared 69 locations as micro containment zones where entry and exit points will remain sealed and stricter restrictions will apply. Gaikwad said, “PMC has taken effort to make sure that the spread of virus is controlled. Due to our efforts, the high risk area has been confined to only around 3% of the city now. This reduction will bring down the undue load on civic infrastructure and government authorities.” In the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC), which is part of the Pune Metropolitan Region that covers 7.5million population, the number of containment zones has gone up from 16 to 21 but remains 2.9% in terms of area. From March 11, when the first positive case was reported, till Sunday, May 3, Pimpri Chinchwad has recorded 121 Covid-19 positive cases. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI, “We have already reduced the doubling rate on infection in the city till now. We expect it to further reduce during the extended lockdown period. People should keep following social distancing and hygiene in public places. We will create new containment zones if anywhere there is increase in number of Covid-19 positive patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-only-3-of-city-a-containment-zone-curfew-remains-but-some-curbs-eased/articleshow/75524720.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 4, 2020||Goa||‘After lockdown, waste collection must be on track’||Panaji: Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho said he was aware that some panchayats have sidestepped from their obligations of waste management in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will meet the panchayats director to ensure that all panchayats earnestly continue their civic duty of collection and disposal of waste. Godindo said work of setting up waste treatment plants for panchayats is under way. The waste treatment plants coming up at Chicalim and Zuarinagar, he said, are at an advanced stage. Both plants will have an inbuilt capacity to generate fuel from waste. A few months before the Covid-19 scare, waste collection and disposal had fallen in line. Strong measures by the government had compelled them to act following petitions in the high court and at other forums such as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to take waste management seriously. Now it has been noticed that of 190 panchayats, some have gone back to their old ways of functioning and stopped regular collection of waste. Non-collection of waste leads to dumping in open spaces and mostly along roadsides. It’s been more than a decade that the government has been pursuing village panchayat bodies to not neglect their civic duties. Coastal panchayats whether is it is North Goa or South Goa have a system in place for waste collection. They pick waste generated in their respective jurisdiction but many are yet to penalise people caught dumping waste in open spaces. “Officials had started penalising people held guilty of dumping waste but they seems to have lost zeal amid Covid-19 pandemic. As regular activities picks up we will see public places and road sides getting littered if civic bodies do not take their civic responsibility seriously,” said a municipal official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-lockdown-waste-collection-must-be-on-track/articleshow/75524544.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||West Singhbhum’s immune booster drink gets Ayush nod||Jamshedpur: West Singhbhum district administration has prepared an immune booster drink from medicinal herbs found in the Saranda forest of the district as a safeguard measure against Covid-19. West Singhbhum DDC Aditya Ranjan said the drink has been endorsed by the Union ministry of Ayush. Prepared from medicinal herbs — tulsi leaves, terminalia Arjun bark, ginger, guava leaves, pipal leaves, giloy, Krishna marich, lemon leaves — found in Saranda forest, van samities (forest committees) produced the herbal booster drink according to the guidelines of the Ayush department. Other important components of the herbal drink — dalchini,sunthi, cloves, cardamom, turmeric, black pepper and jaggery — have been arranged from local markets. Ranjan said, “Union ministry of Ayush has endorsed the home-made herbal immunity booster drink for the citizens in the fight against coronavirus.” He added, “The herbal immunity booster is a proven herbal product for enhancing the immunity and fortunately, all herbs required for preparing the drink are available in the Saranda forest.” He further said the local forest committees have been trained to prepare the drink for supply to quarantine centres in the first stage and subsequently, the committee members will be trained for branding and marketing the product for wide consumption at healthcare centres. Ranjan added that the committees were following the process prescribed by the Dhanvantri Ayurvedic Shodh Sansthan Saha Panchkaram Vigyan Chikitsalay, Ranchi, while preparing the drink. The district administration’s efforts will also provide earning opportunities to the villagers, living in the foothills of Saranda forest. Ranjan said, “Preparing the herbal immunity booster drink has come as a good opportunity for the villagers to make some money during the lockdown period.” He added that post the lifting of lockdown, fresh effort would be made to promote the herbal booster for wide public consumption. The Saranda forest is a dense forest cover spread across 800sqkm area in the mineral-rich district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/west-singhbhums-immune-booster-drink-gets-ayush-nod/articleshow/75523365.cms||B Sridhar
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||956 from Kota reach Dhanbad, 4 students sent to quarantine||Sindri: A special train carrying 956 students from different parts of the state and stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, arrived in Dhanbad at about 4pm on Sunday. Three of the students were put in quarantine at the railway hospital after they showed symptoms of Covid-19, authorities said. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar and SSP Akhilesh B Verier along with other district administration officials welcomed the students at the Dhanbad railway station. The students who arrived on Sunday included 201 from Dhanbad, 187 from Bokaro, 133 from Giridih, 94 from Koderma, 34 from Dumka, 83 from Godda (82), 54 from Sahebganj, 117 from Deoghar and 54 from Jamtara and Pakur. Elaborate safety measures were taken up at the station and social distancing was maintained to prevent any chances of spreading the virus. While students from Dhanbad are taken to golf ground from where they would be transported to their respective blocks after proper medical examinations, students from other districts will be handed over to the nodal officers of their respective districts after thermal screening, the DC said. Talking to newspersons, the students praised the efforts made by the Jharkhand government in bringing them back. While the majority of the students said they faced no problems in Kota as food and accommodation were provided, some of them complained of not getting enough food due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/956-from-kota-reach-dhanbad-4-students-sent-to-quarantine/articleshow/75523415.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||Two Deoghar Covid patients recover, released from hospital||Dumka: The two Covid-19 patients of Deoghar were released from hospital on Sunday after their second round of tests returned negative, district authorities said. The discharged patients, both migrant workers, were given a grand send-off by doctors, hospital staff and deputy commissioner Nancy Sahay from their isolation ward in the morning. Sahay said, “Both of them were given bouquets and sweets. We congratulated them for beating the deadly virus.” The workers, both in their teens, were emotional after receiving the grand send-off. “The care we were given by doctors and hospital staff was overwhelming,” the duo said. They was sent to their homes in Gamhariya and Bhurkunda villages under Bhurkunda block of the district in two separate ambulances. Earlier, both were taken to a private hospital, which was designated as a Covid-19 facility, from their respective quarantine centres on April 20 and April 24 after their blood and swab samples tested positive for the virus. In Garhwa, the second samples of a 24-year-old man from the district’s Pathan Toli area tested negative. The man, who was released from Ranchi’s Lake View Hospital on March 31, had tested positive after showing symptoms of Covid-19 on April 22. Garhwa deputy commissioner Harsh Mangla said, “Two of his family members are currently lodged at the Covid-19 centre in Maral as they have shown some symptoms of the virus. We have sent their samples to Rims (in Ranchi) and they should reach us soon.” Civil surgeon Dr N K Rajak said, “The two family members’ swab samples have been sent for an examination, the report of which is awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-deoghar-covid-patients-recover-released-from-hospital/articleshow/75523439.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro industries seek govt help in getting dues from PSUs||Bokaro: Even after 52 industrial units reopened after the Union home ministry’s advisory on relaxation of lockdown norms, lack of raw materials, unavailability of labourers and shortage of fund have led them to ask the Jharkhand government to intervene in getting their outstanding dues cleared from PSUs. Sundeep Kumar, secretary of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority’s (JIADA) Bokaro region, said, “Of the three industrial areas — Dhanbad, Giridih and Bokaro — only 52 industries have started in Bokaro’s Balidih. There are about 500 big and small industries in Balidih alone.” Taking note of the situation, Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI) sought the state government’s intervention. BCCI president Sanjay Baid said, “We have requested the industry department to take concrete steps to help the MSMEs tide over the crisis. All PSUs operating in Jharkhand should be directed to pay the arrears of industries, so that the financial crunch can be reduced.” BCCI also requested the state government to ensure that all work orders in the PSUs are issued only to the industries of Jharkhand on a priority basis for next two years. No penalty and license fee should be levied on the industries for the next 12 months. Fixed charges of electricity on industries should not be taken for the period of lockdown and for the next six months. The process of bringing skilled labourers and operators back to the state should also be started soon by laying down conditions and guidelines.” Baid added BCCI has demanded that the industry secretary initiates continuous sanitization of industrial areas for the next two to three months. Obstruction in transporting of raw materials to industries and supply of finished goods should also be taken care of. “It will be a huge relief if the state government appoints a nodal officer in the industrial area who will coordinate and help the industries to overcome the problems,” Baid said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-industries-seek-govt-help-in-getting-dues-from-psus/articleshow/75523332.cms||Divy Khare
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||Govt issues guidelines on movement of migrants||Ranchi: As the stranded migrants return to Jharkhand, the state government on Saturday evening issued a detailed standard operating protocol, in compliance with the directions issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), for the movement of stranded persons to and from the state and directed the senior administrative and police officials to enforce the order in word and in spirit. Acting on the guidelines of MHA, Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh issued a letter, directing officials of various departments to bring back the stranded people to the state and send those stuck in Jharkhand back to their respective homes through rail and road routes. The letter also directed the district and health department to ensure proper screening and arrangement of quarantine facilities upon the arrival of the migrants as per the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. The chief secretary also stuck directed the deputy commissioners to provide inter-state movement pass to the residents of other states and intra-state movement pass to those who are stuck in one district and need to travel on their own or in arranged vehicles to another district in order to reach home. All the passes must be given in accordance with the MHA guidelines. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar has been appointed as the nodal officer for any kind of movement to and from state via rail or road routes and he is responsible to facilitate the safe return of migrants to their homes in accordance with the MHA guidelines. “State nodal officer has to decide the origin and destination of train in coordination with railways and the assistant transport nodal officer is tasked with making a list of passengers beforehand so that the passengers can be identified and can be accommodated in coaches following social distancing norms,” the chief secretary’s letter said. “The nodal officer will also be responsible for ensuring the screening of all passengers before and after the journey and to provide the migrants with masks, sanitizers and food before sending them to their respective districts,” the letter added. Speaking about migrant movement via road, the letter said, “The buses will be dispatched to the neighbouring states only after a complete list of stranded persons has been finalised by the nodal officer and they have been given medical clearance by the local administration. The buses used for the transportation of migrants will be sanitized before and after the journey and the strength of passengers will be decided in accordance with social distancing norms.” Meanwhile state government have also directed the state health authorities to ensure proper screening and medical examination of all those returning to Jharkhand and to maintain a record of each and every migrant about his medical condition, the type of quarantine suggested and his travel history. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We have directed all the state health authorities to ensure that all norms are being followed while screening and the medical examination before they are sent for home or institutional quarantine.” Meanwhile three buses from Deoghar were dispatched on Sunday to Chhattisgarh and Odisha to bring back the stranded labourers. “We have sent two buses to Raipur and one to Cuttack to bring back the migrants who have been stranded there due to the lockdown. The buses will be returning tomorrow and after proper screening and medical examination, they will be kept in home or institutional quarantine,” said Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-issues-guidelines-on-movement-of-migrants/articleshow/75523325.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||Soren in limelight as country’s first train for migrants arrive in state, BJP hails Modi||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren emerged as the man of the moment as news broke about the first Shramik special train chugging into the Hatia station late on Friday night, bringing over 1,200 migrant workers back home from Telangana even as opposition BJP launched a campaign to credit Prime Minister Narendra Modi for despatching the train. When the news broke on Friday morning, the social media went abuzz with adulatory messages, thanking Soren for “silently working” to bring back the stranded workers. Till Thursday, Soren was facing ire of the opposition as well as from those stranded outside, with many of them tagging his Twitter handle, questioning why his government was silent and not doing enough to bring those stranded back to the state. The tide changed overnight in favour of Soren and his alliance government even though BJP said the state government had no role in the return of migrants from Telangana. State BJP chief Deepak Prakash wrote on his Twitter handle, “The Jharkhand government has no role in the return of migrants from Telangana. The state government is taking undue credit.” He claimed, “The statement by the state labour minister has made it clear that they have learnt about the return of the migrants from Telangana via phone and social media much later.” Prakash added, “The entire credit for sending them safely to Jharkhand should go to Union and Telangana governments.” Twitterati, however, thanked Soren and many labourers, upon their arrival, hailed him for his efforts. Vishnu Rajghariya, a city-based RTI activist wrote on his social media, “When Hemant Soren wrote a letter to the Prime Minister demanding clear-cut guidelines for movement of stranded people, everyone laughed at him. They again laughed when he demanded for a special train. But the first Shramik special train is coming to Hatia.” Another Twitter user, Prerna Sharma, wrote: “A CM should be like him (Hemant Soren), who got the first train for his state bringing the stranded people.” Another user, Dilip Mandal, added, “This happens when a tribal CM is at the helm of affairs in a tribal state.” Ajit Anjuman also posted thanking Soren for according a warm welcome to all migrants after he personally ensured the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/soren-in-limelight-as-countrys-first-train-for-migrants-arrive-in-state-bjp-hails-modi/articleshow/75523285.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||Small traders, trade bodies urge govt to allow biz to run in Steel City||Jamshedpur: Small-time traders in the Steel City, who have incurred heavy losses during the 40-day lockdown, have urged the state government to allow them resume their businesses, saying that the city and the whole of East Singhbhum district are in the green category as they are yet to report a single Covid-19 positive case so far. Prakash Pathak, who owns a shop in Kadma Market, said, “Under the relaxation guidelines of the central government, the state government should give us permission to open our shops. Safety measures such as social distancing, use of masks and sanitation protocols will be followed while running our businesses.” Similarly, a footwear shop owner — who was reprimanded by police on Sunday morning for allegedly opening his shop without permission — said sitting at home without business is not possible any more for small traders like him. Echoing their sentiments, the Jamshedpur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) said they will submit a memorandum to deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla on Monday. “Traders have become impatient. Every day, our functionaries are receiving several calls from the traders asking us to get permission from the administration to open their shops,” said JCCI functionary Mohanlal Agarwal. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) claimed that the traders stood with the government during the extended lockdown period, but now it has become difficult for them to withstand under another phase of lockdown, which has been extended till May 17. “It is not an issue of the shop owners alone, but also of the staff who work at the shops. Keeping shops closed for 40-50 days is like self-destruction,” said CAIT national secretary Suresh Sonthalia. Sonthalia took to Twitter on Sunday and urged CM Hemant Soren to be considerate towards the traders while framing relaxation guidelines for green zones. For the past fortnight, several shopkeepers have been reprimanded by the police for running their businesses discretely at shops across different markets in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/small-traders-trade-bodies-urge-govt-to-allow-biz-to-run-in-steel-city/articleshow/75523354.cms||B Sridhar
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||‘State government is not fully prepared to go for relaxations’||An official in the state disaster management department said on condition of anonymity, “The situation in Jharkhand is different as we are experiencing a massive reverse migration. The state government is not fully prepared to go for relaxations and at the same time regulate the entry of stranded migrants.” He added, “Although all those who are coming back are being advised to stay in home quarantine and those with symptoms of Covid-19 are being sent to government migration centres, we don’t have enough manpower and resources to track if everyone is adhering to the rules. Hence, the decision was taken not to provide new relaxations in any of the three zones. The government is hopeful that the situation will get better in two weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-government-is-not-fully-prepared-to-go-for-relaxations/articleshow/75523257.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||No positive case detected in Jharkhand, five released after being cured||RANCHI: No positive case of Covid-19 was detected and six patients recovered from the disease with five them discharged on Sunday, the state health department said. This is the second day when the state detected no positive cases in over 10 days. Earlier on April 21, Jharkhand had also zero positive case. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “A total of 364 samples were tested across three testing centres of the state on Sunday and all have turned out to be negative. Meanwhile, six positive patients across the state have recovered, which included one from Garhwa and three from Ranchi.” The three recovered patients from Ranchi and two from Deoghar, who were declared cured on Saturday, were discharged. Moreover, swab samples of four girl students, who arrived from Kota by a special train to Dhanbad, were also collected during the day for testing. Talking to TOI, Dhanbad DC Raj Sinha said, “An 18-year-old had developed high fever after her arrival and was unable to travel, so we have shifted her to an isolation centre in PMCH, Dhanbad, and a team of doctors is attending to her.” The three others travelling with her, all from Bokaro, were advised home quarantine. In the Garhwa case, DC Harsh Mangla said, “A 24-year-old resident of Garhwa’s Pathan Toli locality tested positive on April 22 and recovered on Sunday after his second test result came negative.” He will be released soon. In Ranchi, a Bero locality resident and two from Hindpiri area were declared cured by Rims authorities. “The 58-year-old Bero resident and the duo from Hindpiri were declared cured on Sunday after their consecutive results tested negative,” Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-positive-case-detected-in-state-5-released-after-being-cured/articleshow/75524263.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Ranchi||‘Scared’ citizens flood telemedicine helpline numbers with calls, seek advice on testing||RANCHI: Doctors at telemedicine helplines are increasingly receiving panic calls related to Covid-19. Some of the medicos that TOI spoke with said that nowadays people with even common cold symptoms are making frenetic calls to the helplines thinking they have Covid-19. Dr M N Sinha, who is with Hello Doctor, said, “We are getting calls from Jharkhand as well as from other states like Meghalaya. People have become quite conscious about their health nowadays. Even if they have common cold, they are asking whether they should go for a coronavirus test.” Hello Doctor is run by an NGO called Citizens Foundation. The secretary of Citizens Foundation, Ganesh Reddy, said that soon after the imposition of lockdown, they had launched the tele-medicine consultation helpline for the benefit of common people. He said, “On an average, we get at least 30-35 calls throughout the day seeking medical advice. Of them, many are certainly panic calls, but in such cases we try to counsel the caller and ask them to not panic.” A doctor at Gurunanak Hospital, Dr Johnson Clement Bage, said, “I get around 15-20 calls per day. And on an average, at least 8-10 callers ask me if they need to go for a Covid test. But we ask them to take medicines first and wait for some more days.” The sudden change in weather and rains have also led to a spurt in cases of fever and viral infections, thereby compounding the problems of tele-medicine consultants. Ritik Kumar Yadav, a 23-year-old guy and a resident of Bhurkunda, said, “A few days ago, I panicked after getting a sore throat. I calmed down only after the government tele-medicine helpline told me that my sympoms were not that of Covid-19.” Dr Prashant Jayasawal of City Trust Hospital said, “People, in general, have become more aware of the pandemic but it is regrettable that some are still not using masks while going out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/scared-citizens-flood-tele-medicine-helpline-numbers-with-calls-seek-advice-on-testing/articleshow/75523458.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Business||State governments face huge revenue shortfall||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh government has spent over Rs 12,000 crore in paying salaries and pension for April, when its revenues were Rs 2,284 crore. “It is shocking, but the state cannot compromise with the lives of the people,” UP finance minister Suresh Khanna told TOI, reacting to the low tax revenue. It’s a similar story in Punjab, where wage and pension bill added up to Rs 3,000 crore in April and there was an equal amount spent on debt servicing, while total earnings were Rs 200-250 crore. “Not a single bottle of alcohol was sold and there is virtually no petrol or diesel sales. We earned around Rs 10 crore a day from stamp duty and registration, which is not there, and consumption being what it is, is leading to almost nil GST. But there are higher spending requirements from relief & rehabilitation and medical departments,” Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal told TOI. The state is staring at a Rs 8,000-9000 crore shortfall in the first three months of 2020-21 and even if things normalise, revenues would be around Rs 20,000 crore lower than what Punjab had expected in the remaining nine months. Faced with a severe cash crunch, the state government has front-loaded its borrowing and is tapping investors to raise money now, instead August or September. The story is similar across states. By all accounts, GST collections for March sales, which are due to be paid by Tuesday, may be just around 30% of the year-ago period when they were estimated at around Rs 1.14 lakh crore. Apart from GST and a share of the Centre’s tax kitty, the main contributors to the state’s revenue include value-added tax (VAT) on fuel, state excise on liquor, property tax, and tax on vehicles. On all fronts, tax revenues have virtually come to a halt, prompting several states to open liquor vends in the hope of raising some excise to keep the administration running. “With lower tax collections, the devolution to states would be lower by almost Rs 1.8-2 lakh crore compared to the FY21 Budget estimates. States’ own taxes, which accounted for around 44% of states’ total receipts (and amounted to Rs 12 lakh crore) in FY19, could also see an adverse impact of up to 10%. While states’ receipts would be lower by at least Rs 3-3.5 lakh crore than otherwise, higher spending would lead to expansion in their deficit, and therefore, the need to borrow more,” Motilal Oswal analysts Nikhil Gupta and Yaswi Agarwal said. While states have demanded that their borrowing limit be raised by allowing them to go past the prescribed fiscal deficit of 3% of GDP to up to 5% of GDP, they are awaiting clarity from the Centre to amend their laws. On their part, officials at the Centre said, the RBI has allowed states to raise more funds through ways and means advances, which are short-term borrowings, apart from releasing money in the form of devolution of central taxes and revenue deficit grants, to keep the states going. But states and analysts say it is not enough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/state-govts-face-huge-revenue-shortfall/articleshow/75524849.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 4, 2020||Business||Will ensure survival of small biz: MSME secy||NEW DELHI: Arvind Kumar Sharma, the new secretary for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), has said that it is imperative to protect the backbone of the units and entrepreneurs during the coronavirus pandemic and ensure that small businesses sail though the tough times, without impacting jobs and livelihood. “Ridh ki haddi bachi rahegi to phir se khade ho jayengey (if the backbone is intact, they will stand again),” Sharma told his colleagues in the ministry after taking charge last week. Besides, he suggested that the crisis should be seen as an opportunity and units should look for new opportunities in domestic and international markets, pointing out that India had to initially depend on imports to meet its requirement for masks and personal protection equipment. “…with little effort, after our group (of officials) put some dots together, today just in two-three weeks, we have started producing more than one lakh PPEs daily. We have to just bring certain players and processes together,” Sharma, who has moved from PMO, said. But the key thrust for the ministry in the coming days will be to ensure that small businesses come out of distress, a key theme being pursued by the Narendra Modi government. The much-anticipated second stimulus package is expected to respond to challenges of MSMEs, apart from the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-ensure-survival-of-small-biz-msme-secy/articleshow/75524855.cms||Sidhartha
May 4, 2020||Business||Chinese co top bidder for IL&FS stake in E-way co||NEW DELHI: Chinese insurance major PingAn has emerged as the highest bidder for IL&FS stake in Chongqing Yuhe Expressway Co (CYEL) with lenders too approving the proposal in-principle. The sale will resolve nearly Rs 2,500 crore of overall IL&FS debt. The company’s bid at an aggregate equity valuation covers 100% debt of CYEL, official sources told TOI. IL&FS holds a 49% stake in CYEL, a company incorporated in mainland China, through its Singapore-based subsidiary ITNL International Pte (IIPL), with the remaining held by Chongqing Expressway Group (CEG). The stake sale in the Chinese Expressway company is part of the strategy to recover a large chunk of the funds that are locked up in the beleaguered group, adding up to over Rs 90,000 crore. Government sources said that they expect up to 60% of the IL&FS group debt to be recovered through a mix of transactions in the coming months. While the biggest chunk of nearly Rs 13,000 crore is going to come through InvITs of road projects, another Rs 7,500 crore is going to come from the sale of other road assets, while claims of around Rs 6,000 crore have been budgeted for from Gurgaon Metro, NHAI and other agencies. The sale in China along with stake sale in GIFT City and ONGC Tripura are expected to generate another Rs 8,000 crore. IL&FS Financial Services too may help generate around Rs 5,000 crore and wind energy and real estate businesses could fetch Rs 4,500 crore and Rs 4,000 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-co-top-bidder-for-ilfs-stake-in-e-way-co/articleshow/75524856.cms||Sidhartha
May 4, 2020||Business||Govt panel seeks review of 5G spectrum base price||NEW DELHI: A high-level panel on National Infrastructure Pipeline has sought a review of the base price for 5G spectrum auctions, arguing that the reserve price for airwaves auction proposed by the department of telecom (DoT) is much higher than other countries and interest may be tepid. “The high price comes at a time when the demand for spectrum is likely to be subdued as consolidation has reduced the number of players in the sector to effectively only four. However, providing inclusive and affordable 5G services to all sections of the population in the country is important to achieve the National Digital Communications Policy goals. For this, participation of the private players in the 5G auction should be robust. In order to enable this, the authorities should rationalise all elements of spectrum pricing for the auction, including base price, period of payment of charges and interest rates,” the task force comprising top officials said in its report submitted to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week. DoT has suggested a base price of Rs 492 crore per MHz and was hoping to mop up at least Rs 5.8 lakh crore. The committee included economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty, who retired last week, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and expenditure secretary T V Somanathan. It has prepared a pipeline for investments of around Rs 111 lakh crore over five years. The task force has also called for a revamp of financing models for infrastructure and backed a return of development financial institutions, such as IDBI and IFCI, albeit with a sectoral focus. It has argued that banks and NBFCs are unable to meet the massive funding requirement and face several challenges, which is turning the clock back by close to two decades. A key theme in the report is ensuring sanctity of contracts, something that power sector investors have complained about in the recent past, with the task force calling for a legislation to facilitating infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-panel-seeks-review-of-5g-spectrum-base-price/articleshow/75524858.cms||Sidhartha
May 4, 2020||Business||Texas varsity to start human testing of BCG to fight Covid||HOUSTON: Researchers in the Texas A&M University in US are asking hundreds of frontline medical workers to participate in a late-stage clinical trial of a widely-used tuberculosis vaccine that could help boost the immune system and blunt the effects of Covid-19 . Texas A&M is the first US institution in the clinical trial to have federal clearance to begin testing on humans. Researchers hope to demonstrate that Bacillus Calmette-Guerin or BCG mitigates the effects of the new coronavirus. BCG, which is also used to treat bladder cancer, could be widely available for use against Covid in six months. “BCG is not meant to cure coronavirus but bridge the gap until a vaccine is developed. BCG vaccine has the broad ability to strengthen your immune response” said Dr Jeffrey D Cirillo, a professor at the Texas A&M. Healthcare workers will be the first people eligible for the trial, which is set to begin this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/texas-varsity-to-start-human-testing-of-bcg-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75524859.cms||---
May 4, 2020||India||‘Culture of namaste, caring for the aged at home may’ve helped against Covid’||NEW YORK: Ingrained social distancing norms like people greeting each other with ‘Namaste’ in India may have provided more protection against the coronavirus, according to a US media report. The coronavirus has touched almost every country on earth, but its impact has seemed “capricious. Metropolises like New York, Paris and London have been devastated, while cities like Bangkok, Baghdad, New Delhi and Lagos have, so far, largely been spared”, New York Times said in a report. The report cited interviews with infectious disease experts, health officials, epidemiologists and academics around the globe. “Cultural factors, like the social distancing that is built into certain societies, may give some countries more protection,” epidemiologists said. “In Thailand and India, where virus numbers are relatively low, people greet each other at a distance, with palms joined together (namaste). In Japan and South Korea, people bow, they tended to wear face masks when feeling unwell,” the report added. The report also noted that in much of the developing world, the custom of caring for the elderly at home leads to fewer nursing homes, which in the western nations have seen tragic outbreaks and high number of fatalities among the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/culture-of-namaste-caring-for-the-aged-at-home-mayve-helped-against-covid/articleshow/75524863.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Tension prevails at AP-Telangana border as migrant labourers try to return home||Hyderabad/Vijayawada: Tension prevailed at Telangana-Andhra Pradesh borders on Sunday as hundreds of people attempted to cross them to reach their native places. The police on either side of the borders stopped the people, mostly migrant labourers. The police had a hectic time in convincing the motorists to return as the relaxation announced by the Centre was “specific” in nature and not general. People began gathering at the borders from the morning forcing the police to increase security and barricade the borders. While the borders between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and AP and Odisha witnessed some anxious moments as the motorists lost their cool, while the borders with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu remained largely peaceful. Officials clarified that the one-time relaxation given to migrant labour was to be executed under the supervision of states and it did not apply to individuals, whether migrants or general public, who want to undertake inter-state travel. AP police stopped people from Telangana coming on two-wheelers and cars at the border checkposts near Wadapally, Garikepadu, Gadwal, Aswaraopet and Jangareddygudem. Only those authorised to cross the borders were permitted . Following the Union government’s latest guidelines to states to shift stranded migrant workers to their native places, many workers belonging to AP, Bihar and Odisha hired vehicles to go to their states. However, some people from Andhra Pradesh, who have been staying in Hyderabad, also tried to visit AP in their own vehicles. Nalgonda police, which controls two main interstate checkposts on Miryalguda-Piduguralla, and Hyderabad-Macherla routes had to handle hundreds of people trying to cross over to Andhra Pradesh. "Some are walking while several people are coming on bikes. We are conducting medical checkup of all the migrant workers and sending them across into AP if they are healthy. However, some of them are made to wait there as they are not coming in buses as mentioned in central government guidelines," said an official from Nalgonda. Bhadradri Kothagudem SP Sunil Dutt told TOI that over 1,000 people from AP including migrant workers have crossed over from two check points at Ashwaraopet and Bhadrachalam. "People are coming from different districts including Khammam and Suryapet by using difference means of transport. We are conducting health checkup with medical teams and issuing passes to those who do not have any symptoms of ill health. There was no protest of workers on our side of the state border," Sunil Dutt added. Andhra Pradesh director-general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang told TOI that shifting of migrant workers was being done after consultation between the respective state governments. He said they have been shifting the migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh stranded in other states as per the prescribed procedure. Sawang said they cannot take risks by allowing people without details about their origin and destination. “One mistake will jeopardise the work in the last 40 days to contain the virus. We need to have information regarding migrant workers or people travelling with emergency reasons. It is not that we have stopped everyone at the border. We have to ensure that from where these people are coming and where they are headed to and proper arrangements have to be made to isolate them for a prescribed period. So, the process of allowing people whether they are migrant workers, students, pilgrims or others have to be in an organised manner and it cannot be like anyone one can travel,” he clarified. Earlier, migrant workers stranded in various districts of Telangana took authorisation letters from local officials to go to their respective places. Many of them reached Garikapadu, the border area between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Confusion was also created as people came in personal vehicles by showing permission letters from Telangana officials. AP officials said as transportation of migrant workers is a regulated activity according to the SOP prescribed by the Union home ministry, they cannot allow people to come into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tension-prevails-at-ap-telangana-border-as-migrant-labourers-try-to-return-home/articleshow/75523445.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Amaravati||Don’t rush home: YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells Andhraites living in other states||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has appealed to people residing outside the state to not rush back home as the lockdown norms were eased only for the movement of migrant labourers. He said it would be difficult to quarantine everybody if everyone staying outside the state wanted to come back. The chief minister made these comments at a review meeting on corona containment measures at the camp office on Sunday. The chief minister was responding to the reports of a large number of students and professionals stranded at inter-state checkposts on highways while attempting to rush back home from Hyderabad after securing passes from the Telangana police. The chief minister said that it would create a situation difficult to manage if everyone were to come back home. He asked people residing in other states to stay back at their places until further communication on the issue. The chief minister asked the officials to strictly follow the restrictions and relaxations announced by the Centre on the issue of movement of people. “We need to identify the migrant labourers in advance and take steps for their transport. Do not allow anyone else except migrant labourers to cross the borders,” the chief minister directed. He asked them to step up efforts to transport the migrant labourers and ready sufficient quarantine facilities. He said all work should go on simultaneously without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/dont-rush-home-cm-tells-andhraites-living-in-other-states/articleshow/75523457.cms||Samdani MN
May 4, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh plans to reopen shops in red zone districts||AMARAVATI: Revamping the lockdown restrictions, the state government has decided to kick-start economic activity even in red zone districts. The state redefined the zonal criteria for Covid-19 by following the Union home ministry’s guidelines and directed district collectors to ready the road map to allow reopening of shops and commercial establishments. The shops will be shut only in containment zones (existing containment area and buffer area of 3km) even in red zone districts. While malls, theatres, educational institutions, religious places, bars and hotels will continue to be under closure mode in all the three zones, the permission to open standalone shops in colonies, residential areas and apartments will be granted. Earlier, the permission for commercial activities was been confined to green and orange zone districts including Vizianagaram, Srikakularm, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Ananthapur and Kadapa. Now, the relaxation will apply to red zone districts such as Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Kurnool and Chittoor. “Effectively defining and managing the containment clusters along with their buffers is the key. The boundary of the containment cluster shall be defined by the district administration taking into account the mapping of cases and their contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area with well demarcated perimeter and enforceability,” said K Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (health) in the Covid-19 order released on Sunday. “The containment core area will generally extend from 500 meters radius to 1 Km, depending upon the extent of the spread of cases and contacts within the locality and this would be geographically quarantined. A buffer zone of up to 3 kms from the epicenter of the core area shall also be demarcated so as to ensure surveillance through monitoring of ILI/SARI cases in health facilities,” he directed the collectors. In rural areas of the red zone districts, all the essential and non-essential shops could be opened outside the containment zones. Permissions for construction activity would also be granted with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-plans-to-reopen-shops-in-red-zone-districts/articleshow/75523474.cms||Samdani MN
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Too late: Toddy tappers upon getting permission||Vijayawada: Though the Andhra Pradesh government has given the green signal for the tapping of toddy in the state on Friday, toddy tappers say that delay in tapping has led to low collection from the trees. Normally, during the summer season, toddy tappers collect at least 15 litres of toddy from a palm tree in a day. But due to delay in tapping on account of the Covid-19 lockdown from March 23 to April 30, tappers have managed to collect only five to seven litres of toddy from a tree in a day. However, the demand for palm toddy is high as tipplers, who have been not getting liquor due to the shut down of liquor outlets during the lockdown, are making a beeline for fresh toddy. Y Demudu, secretary of Andhra Pradesh Kallugeeta Karmika Sangham (Toddy Tappers Association), said, “Some of our tappers resumed tapping toddy from Friday, but the production was low due to delay in the tapping process. As we lost revenue due to Covid-19 lockdown, we will continue to seek compensation for the loss of livelihood,” Demudu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/too-late-toddy-tappers-upon-getting-permission/articleshow/75523487.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Discoms call for Centre’s help to bridge revenue gap||Vijayawada: State power utilities have urged the Union government to come to their rescue as the disruption caused by Covid-19 has affected sales and revenue collections. The state government has sent a representation to Aniruddha Kumar, joint secretary of the Union ministry of power, designated by the Centre to coordinate with the state to deal with the crisis. Energy department officials said power consumption in the state has fallen by 20 per cent and nearly 80 per cent of revenue collections have been affected after the lockdown was announced. Officials estimate a loss in revenue worth Rs 2,500 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 due to sharp reduction in consumption. Th state government has agreed to waive power charges of MSMEs for three months following requests from various industry associations. The waiver would amount to Rs 188 crore, according to the officials. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said they are requesting the Union ministry to provide relief to utilities to bridge the revenue gap that has arisen due to the lockdown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discoms-call-for-centres-help-to-bridge-revenue-gap/articleshow/75523508.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy tips hat to corona warriors||Visakhapatnam: As a gesture of appreciation and gratitude towards corona warriors, the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) undertook various activities on Sunday including showering flowers from helicopter on Covid hospitals, felicitating doctors and illuminating naval ships at anchorage. On Sunday morning, Commodore Sanjeev Issar, naval officer-in-charge (Andhra Pradesh) felicitated frontline workers at Visakhapatnam on behalf of ENC. He presented a bouquet to Dr PV Sudhakar, principal, Andhra Medical College, Dr KVV Vijaya Kumar, superintendent of Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Deceases (GHCCD) and Dr Surya Kumari, Covid nodal officer at GHCCD and Dr N Dwarakanath, medical superintendent, Gitam Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR). In the evening, ENC ships, INS Rana and INS Kamorta were illuminated off RK Beach (near Kalimatha Temple) as a mark of solidarity. Coloured flares were also fired from the ships, signifying good wishes for the health of citizens. INS Jalashwa on a surveillance mission in the Bay of Bengal also saluted corona warriors with Navy personnel forming a ‘Thank You’ sign on board the warship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-tips-hat-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/75523525.cms||---
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||Private buses may ferry migrants home in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: From this week, private buses may start ferry migrants home within the state. “Police have asked us to cater to requests from migra nts who want to hire buses. The buses have to be non-AC and carry maximum 25 passengers. The fare will be higher due to social distancing rule,” said Malik Patel of Mumbai Bus Malak Sanghatana. The operator will get police permission after submitting the 25 passenger names, with the Aadhaar details and medical certificates. Migrants seeking to hire buses can send a request on boumum@gmail.com. MSRTC too has kept 10,000 buses on standby, with 300-500 buses in most districts, to ferry migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/private-buses-may-ferry-migrants-home-in-maharashtra/articleshow/75524890.cms||Somit Sen
May 4, 2020||Delhi||Time to reopen Delhi, have to live with coronavirus: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Ruing that Delhi’s economy was in doldrums, revenue collection at rock bottom and there was almost no money to pay salaries to government staffers, CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said it was time to relax lockdown in the city. He appealed to the Centre to let the containment zones remain sealed and make the rest of the city — now fully a ‘red zone’ — a ‘green zone’ and allow markets to reopen from Monday. “When all economic activities are shut and revenue generation has stopped, how do we give salaries? How do we run the government?” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference. Reasoning that the coronavirus was here to stay, he said, “We will have to adapt and prepare to live with corona. And Delhi is ready for it.” He suggested that the Centre could let shops function on an odd-even basis. “We hope if Delhi markets reopen, the economy will also open. Some cases of coronavirus will increase, but we are prepared to tackle them,” the CM said, adding Delhi had enough PPE kits and proper arrangements at hospitals if there was a spike in the number of positive cases. No public transport, but you can take out your carFrom Monday, Delhi government has allowed movement of people for all non-essential works between 7am and 7pm, besides opening of all private offices with 33% staff and let self-employed people such as domestic helps, sanitation workers, technicians, mechanics, plumbers and electricians to operate. Though the guidelines issued by the Centre says the RWAs will decide if the maids are allowed in a residential colony, there was no such restriction imposed by Delhi government, an official said. “If there are instances that the RWAs are not allowing despite residents wanting the maids to work, the government may intervene,” another government official said. While public transport, including Metro and buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws won’t ply, people can move around alone on two-wheelers and with two passengers in a car. All standalone shops and those located in the neighbourhood and residential complexes dealing in essential or non-essential commodities, including liquor, pan, gutkha and cigarettes, would also be allowed to function, the CM said. About 150 government-run liquor shops can remain open between 9am and 6.30pm. All factories in industrial areas with access control have also been permitted along with most commercial and private establishments, including IT and IT enabled services, data and call centres, warehouses, cold storage, private security and facility management services. Industrial units manufacturing IT hardware, packaging material apart from essential commodities will continue to function. The government has also allowed sub-registrar offices to function where people can go with prior appointments, apart from all government offices engaged in essential services with 100% staff and others with limited number of junior cadre officials and personnel. State officials said these relaxations were in accordance to the national guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Friday. With virtually no source of revenue generation, Delhi government barely managed to collect about Rs 350crore in April, which was just 10% of Rs 3,500 crore collected in the first month of last fiscal. Reading out the list of relaxations the Centre has permitted in red zones, the CM accepted that there would be some increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases and Delhi was prepared to deal with them. Kejriwal said the government had used the one-and-a half month of lockdown period to strengthen its capacity to deal with the corona cases and the city was now prepared if the lockdown was opened.He added that it was important to implement a complete lockdown in March to prevent the coronavirus from spreading. A sources said about 150 shops run by four different government corporations in different parts of the city might also open from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/time-to-reopen-delhi-have-to-live-with-coronavirus-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/75524883.cms||Atul Mathur
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||In dark on bed availability at night, BMC puts IAS officers on the job||MUMBAI: Criticised for the inconvenience that patients face in getting isolation beds at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, Covid care centres and dedicated Covid health care centres, the BMC has tasked IAS officers with ensuring things are smooth. In an order, the municipal commissioner on Saturday appointed five IAS officers to look after bed management from 5 pm to 7 am. If required, these officers will visit the designated hospitals to take stock of the situation. “Currently there is no real-time data available on the number of beds vacant in every hospital and BMC gets an update only two times a day, at 10 am and then at 5 pm. This is so as hospitals are also very busy. We, hence, want to streamline the same and plan to have a data entry officer at entry of the Covid hospitals so that real-time data is made available and patients can be moved more swiftly. We would start the same from Monday in wards,” said a BMC official, adding that hospitals had also been advised to stabilise the patients coming to them before asking them to move to another in case of unavailability of beds. The BMC has created three types of facilities for Covid-19 patients and suspected cases. One category is Covid care centres 1 for suspected positive cases and highrisk contacts and Covid care centres 2 for mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. The second is dedicated Covid health care centres for positive cases that are clinically assigned as moderate. The third is dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for positive cases that are clinically assigned as severe. “It has been observed that during evening time/late night hours patients are facing inconvenience in getting isolation beds in these centres due to lack of cordination among the agencies,” said the circular issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. The circular directs five officers, Prajakta Lavangare, Manisha Mhaiskar, A L Jarhad, P Velrasu and Jayashree Bhoj, to look after the bed management from 5 pm to 7 am on specified dates for each of the IAS officers till May 12. Officers Ashwini Bhide and Suresh Kakani will be overall in-charge of allocation of beds at night. Dr Sanjay Oak, head of the state task force, said they were readying 1000-bed facilities at BKC and MMRDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-dark-on-bed-availability-at-night-bmc-puts-ias-officers-on-the-job/articleshow/75524893.cms||Richa Pinto
May 4, 2020||Mumbai||Cop nabbed for helping gang of eight in Rs 7 crore gold heist at jewellery unit in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Five days after eight people, including a current and a former employee, were arrested for allegedly stealing valuables worth Rs Rs 7.09 crore from a jewellery-making unit in Andheri (east), a cop was held on Saturday for allegedly helping in the burglary and providing logistic support to the gang. The arrest of police constable Santosh Rathod (44) has led to the seizure of jewellery valued around Rs 80 lakh, the police said, adding that Rathod had taken it as his share for helping execute the heist on April 6. He had advised the gang members to dismantle the camera recording system on the premises and spirit it away to not leave behind any clue. Rathod has been suspended from the police force and a departmental inquiry initiated against him, said officials from MIDC police station who arrested Rathod. The cop, who was currently posted at Oshiwara police station formerly had a stint at MIDC police station which has jurisdiction over the crime spot. Senior inspector of MIDC police station, Jagdish Shinde, confirmed Rathod’s arrest and said he will be in custody till May 6. The police traced the gang on the basis of cellphone activity in the area on the day of crime. They led the cops to Rathod. Also, the police found a car repeatedly moving around the place between March 31 and April 3, days before the burglary was executed. The plicetracked down the car on the basis of its registration number captured on cameras around theplace. This helped the police narrow down on former employee Pankaj Pancham (31) and current employee Dhiman Chavan (34) who allegedly planned the burglary with Rathod’s help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-nabbed-for-helping-gang-of-eight-in-rs-7-crore-gold-heist-at-jewellery-unit-in-mumbai/articleshow/75524899.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
