May 5, 2020||Delhi||#BoisLockerRoom victim: I’m scarred for life, not sure if I will be able to leave the house again without being scared||It was a traumatic Sunday evening for this 19-year-old college student from Delhi. The girl, who doesn't want to be named, found out much to her horror, that some of her pictures have been shared on Bois Locker Room, the now infamous chat group on Instagram, where a group of boys have been sharing pictures of young girls without their consent and making lewd comments.The teenager has filed a complaint with the cybercrime cell of Delhi Police but continues to live in fear. She shares her story:Around 7.30 pm on Sunday, I saw people posting stories about #BoisLockerRoom. A girl had exposed an Instagram chat group where boys have been posting lewd comments about girls, along with their pictures. At first, I didn’t pay much attention to it but suddenly, I recognized one of the pictures in the screenshots shared online - it was mine! Shaken, I browsed through the online posts, and discovered another picture of mine. Though the pictures had been blurred, I knew they were mine. I had posted one of them in November last year and another one was from January. Through a common friend, I was able to connect to another girl, who was also at the receiving end of the Instagram group like me, and then again through her, I got in touch with five other victims, whose pictures had been shared on the group too. We were seven girls and while three are minors, aged between 15 and 16 years, four of us are aged between 18 and 19 years. My first emotion, after disbelief, was that of guilt. I started believing that it was my fault and I blamed myself for being careless and questioned my choice of clothes. I used to be quite critical about my own body and looks earlier, but in the past one year, I began accepting myself as I am and I loved to dress up in a way that I felt comfortable with, without caring about what others thought. But all that changed on Sunday. I began doubting myself and felt that I had noone but myself to blame for my predicament. I couldn't sleep and deleted all my pictures on Instagram. I was very scared to confide in my parents as I felt that they would be furious with me. But after my friends and cousins persuaded, I finally did tell them, only to be met with a hug from my mom. She told me that it is not my fault and that she and my father will stand by me. I found out that one of the boys in the group was a school junior of one of the other victims. This was a private group and I learnt that the girl who first shared the screenshots, exposing the group, is a friend of one of the boys of the group, and that's how she managed access. But our nightmare is far from over. Though we are getting a lot of support on social media, it is only making the boys more aggressive. Since last night, these guys have been blackmailing us and they have now created another group, where they have started sharing morphed pictures of us as well. They also hacked into one of the girls’ accounts after this incident. This incident has left me scarred for life. I don’t know if I will ever be able to step out of my house again, without being scared. I don’t know what all details they have of me and I have no clue whether they will be punished for this. But I am glad that I have my friends and family to support me.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boislockerroom-victim-im-scarred-for-life-not-sure-if-i-will-be-able-to-leave-the-house-again-without-being-scared/articleshow/75542756.cms||Ashni. Dhaor@timesgroup.com
May 5, 2020||Agra||Two women doctors booked for ‘AWOL’ in UP's Firozabad||AGRA: The district administration has lodged FIR against two women resident doctors of Firozabad government women hospital for being absent without official leave (AWOL) amid the Covid outbreak - when the healthcare workers across the country are fully stretched and need more hands. The two resident doctors were identified as Dr Dolly Agrawal and Dr Priya Yadav of obstetrics and gynaecology department. The two were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Disaster Management Act 2005, section 51 (B) and 56. The FIR lodged by city magistrate Kunwar Pankaj read, "On May 2, the district administration as informed by the principal of women hospital, that Dr Dolly Agrawal and Dr Priya Yadav, have been absent for several days when there is an urgent need for medical and paramedical staff in the desperate times of coronavirus outbreak. The two doctors further filed resignation letter in order to avoid duty, however, the principal refused to accept their resignation citing pandemic act.” “The two doctors were warned of legal action by principal if they refused to join duty, but still they didn’t join. The doctors had the responsibilities for delivery of pregnant patients, however their indiscipline hampered the delivery proceedings in the hospital. Therefore, the two were found guilty and FIR is being lodged,” read the letter of city magistrate to Uttar police. Speaking to TOI on Monday, station house officer Neeraj Mishra said, “The two doctors have been booked as per the complaint lodged by city magistrate.” Meanwhile, TOI attempted to contact both the doctors, but they didn't respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-women-docs-booked-for-awol-in-firozabad/articleshow/75542173.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 5, 2020||Agra||Help pours in for Agra woman who walked 30 km for Rs 500||AGRA: A day after TOI reported about 50-year-old Radha Devi, who has a spine disorder, walking 30 km to Firozabad for Rs 500 financial aid from the government but had to return home empty-handed as she didn’t have a Jan Dhan account, monetary assistance started pouring into her savings bank account with SBI. Her bank balance has now gone up to Rs 26,000 from Rs 207 by the time this report was filed. Speaking with TOI, SBI’s Pachokhara branch manager Laxman Singh said, “A total of 29 individuals have made contributions to her bank account so far.” Taking cognizance of Radha’s story in TOI, G A Prithvi, the personal assistant of Arjun Ram Meghwal, Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs, heavy industries public enterprises, also sent some monetary help to Radha. Speaking to TOI, Prithvi said, “I have taken up Radha’s case with MoS, Finance, office to provide her a Jan Dhan account, so that money under PM’s direct benefit transfer scheme should reach her. Also I have requested MoS, health, office, to treat her for alignment of spine free of cost under PM’s Ayushman Bharat Scheme.” Overwhelmed with the help pouring in from various part of the country, a happy Radha said, “I have no words to express my happiness. Not even in my dreams, I could have imagined such love and affection from people I don’t even know. This money will help me and my family in the lockdown period. I thank them all from my heart.” Radha Devi, wife of Harveer, originally hailed from Himmatpur village of Firozabad district, but had migrated to Shambu Nagar area in the neighbouring Agra for daily wage job some 20 years ago. During the lockdown, she was informed by somebody that the government was transferring Rs 500 into the bank account of the poor and underprivileged. “Due to the lockdown, I walked along with my 15-year-old son to my native place where I have a zero balance account. When I reached there, I was told that the money is being transferred into Jan Dhan accounts, which I do not have,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/from-rs-207-in-a/c-to-rs-26000-in-a-day-help-pours-in-for-agra-woman-who-walked-30-km-for-rs-500/articleshow/75542243.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 5, 2020||Goa||No concession on domestic bills: Goa power minister||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral said there would be no concession of power bills for domestic consumers. “Ever since the lockdown was enforced, there has been a spike in energy consumption because people have had to stay at home. Due to this, the department has been facing problems and hence cannot give benefits to domestic consumers,” he said. Electricity bills of hotels, which are usually raised on the first day of each month, have not yet been raised, Cabral said. “I will speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard and will proceed accordingly,” he said. The power minister also said he has moved a proposal to bring all streetlights under the purview of the electricity department. Presently, only 60% of streetlights are being maintained by the department while the rest are looked after by various other authorities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-concession-on-domestic-bills-goa-power-minister/articleshow/75543215.cms||Murari Shetye
May 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: Rahul to discuss economy with Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's dialogue with Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on dealing with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 crisis will be aired on Tuesday as part of his series of deliberations with experts on economy and health. The Congress party has tweeted a 1.44-minute clip from the conversation which will be aired in full at 9 am Tuesday. The first such dialogue was held last week when Gandhi discussed the coronavirus pandemic and its economic implications with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan. During that dialogue, Rajan had said India should be "cleverer" in lifting the lockdown and should open up its economy in a "measured way" soon to save jobs. He had also said that Rs 65,000 crore should be spent to support the poor hit hard by the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-rahul-to-discuss-economy-with-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee/articleshow/75542617.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||After CRPF HQ, BSF headquarters partially shut as head constable test corona positive||NEW DELHI: A day after CRPF headquarters were closed for sanitisation due to two Covid-19 positive cases, BSF headquarters in the same CGO Complex here too were partially shut after a head constable attached to a senior officer tested positive. Meanwhile, another BSF driver who drove the escort vehicle in carcade of the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) in Kolkata has tested positive for the pandemic. He had reported ill on April 30, tested for Covid-19 and his result came as positive on Sunday. Around 50 of his contacts have been quarantined and made to take the test. The results are awaited. Sources said the infected personnel did not come in direct contact with the IMCT members. Back in Delhi, a head constable of BSF who is on the personal staff of a senior officer was found Covid-19 positive on Sunday night. He had last attended office on Friday and was working on 2nd floor of BSF Force Headquarters. Around 5-6 of his primary contacts, including the senior officer to whom he was attached, have been quarantined and will be tested for Covid-19. his secondary and tertiary contacts are also being traced. Meanwhile, 10 more BSF personnel tested positive in Tripura on Monday. With 12 fresh infections, the total number of Covid-positive personnel in the BSF is 66 so far, with 41 cases in Delhi, 24 in Tripura and 1 in Kolkata. On Monday, offices on the first and second floors of the BSF headquarters were closed as a precautionary measure. The sanitisation was undertaken and as per protocol, the sanitised area will be closed on Tuesday as well, though normal functioning should resume on Wednesday. Meanwhile, two more personnel have tested positive in the 31st battalion of CRPF based at Mayur Vihar here. Of the 480 personnel of the battalion tested, 472 results are in of which 137 are positive. Six results are still awaited. On Sunday, two CRPF personnel attached to the force headquarters — a bus driver and PA of a special DG-level officer — had tested positive, leading to closing of the building for sanitisation. The sanitisation was done on Monday through the headquarters will be resume normal functioning only on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-crpf-hq-bsf-headquarters-partially-shut-as-head-constable-test-corona-positive/articleshow/75543482.cms||Bharti Jain
May 5, 2020||India||India eyes Rs 25,000 crore savings from storing cheap oil in ships||NEW DELHI: India is looking to save Rs 25,000 crore off its crude import bill by storing cheap oil in ships for future use, allowing the government fiscal headroom for spending on more public welfare measures needed in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “Our oil companies have procured almost seven million tonne oil at low prices. Almost 20% of our demand has been stored. This has also led to reduced import bill which will help us free more resources for more public welfare measures,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said during a social media conversation on the oil market scenario on Monday. India's total storage capacity, including floating storage currently in use, stands at 38 million tonne, or about 280 million barrels. This is the same as 18%-20% of normal annual demand. India’s daily consumption of oil stood at about 4.5 million barrels a day before the coronavirus pandemic hit economic activities. After oil began sliding in February, the petroleum ministry inn March sought Rs 3,184 crore, in addition to the Rs 690 crore budgetary support for 2020-21, for buying crude to fill up 2 million tonne capacity left in the 5-million-tonne strategic storage. The plan fitted well with India’s assurance to the G-20 producers, trying to find market balance amid falling consumption and prices, that the world’s third-largest oil consumer will help out with demand. But the situation soon went for a toss as India’s demand for petroleum products tanked 70% after the countrywide lockdown against Coronavirus began on March 25, forcing refiners to scale back operations and look at deferring contracted cargos as storages filled up. Refiners are now using ‘floating storage’ -- keeping vessels carrying crude anchored at high sea. They are also storing products in ships. Pradhan called up counterparts from Saudi Arabia and UAE to explain the situation and discussed additional oil purchase. Contracts for over seven million tonne of crude followed those discussions, a move that saved widespread deferment of cargos by state-run refiners and strains in ties with two OPEC heavyweights. Contracted at a little over $21 a barrel, the government is looking at savings of over Rs 5,000 crore against the January price of around $65 a barrel. In addition, state-run refiners have also procured over 8 million tonne at March-April prices. Against the stock’s January prices, The government is estimating savings of over Rs 20,000 crore from this purchase against the Janaury prices. The refiners also have another 25 million tonne of crude oil as well as refined products in their regular storages procured while crude cost $33.36 a barrel in March and $19.9 in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-eyes-rs-25000-crore-savings-from-storing-cheap-oil-in-ships/articleshow/75543638.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 5, 2020||Delhi||RWAs behaving like hostel wardens during lockdown: Residents||The battles between residents and RWAs are never-ending – they are fought over entry of guests, locked gates, feeding of strays etc. Residents often accuse RWAs of making inane rules while RWAs stress that the rules are for safety reasons. The coronavirus lockdown, that has been in place for over a month, has added a substantial amount of fuel to this already raging fire. Even though some restrictions are valid to tackle the pandemic and many RWAs are helping elderly residents and those less fortunate, the daily diktats and obsessive monitoring has earned some overreaching RWAs the tag of hostel wardens from residents. Banning newspapers and deliveries and stopping people from going to work, even when they are in essential services, are some of the bizarre rules that RWAs have come up with. An RWA member of a society in east Delhi says that he is monitoring the main gate through CCTV footage. “The SHO of every area is contacting RWAs to ensure enforcement of lockdown. Then why should we be blamed for it? I have told the residents that if they will go out for unnecessary work, I will inform the police,” he shared. Dhananjay Gairola, a resident of west Delhi, says, “I had to put the RWA WhatsApp group on mute because they share bizarre illogical COVID-19-related information. I couldn’t leave the group because I have to keep track of what service is being stopped by them next – the rules are insane and they change it whenever they feel like.” Despite assurance from experts that newspapers don’t spread coronavirus, many RWAs jumped to ban newspapers too. A Vasant Kunj resident says, “Our RWA stopped newspaper distribution in the society last month, and we still don’t get them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-behaving-like-hostel-wardens-during-lockdown-residents/articleshow/75540925.cms||Niharika Lal
May 5, 2020||Noida||RWAs behaving like hostel wardens during lockdown: Residents||The battles between residents and RWAs are never-ending – they are fought over entry of guests, locked gates, feeding of strays etc. Residents often accuse RWAs of making inane rules while RWAs stress that the rules are for safety reasons. The coronavirus lockdown, that has been in place for over a month, has added a substantial amount of fuel to this already raging fire. Even though some restrictions are valid to tackle the pandemic and many RWAs are helping elderly residents and those less fortunate, the daily diktats and obsessive monitoring has earned some overreaching RWAs the tag of hostel wardens from residents. Banning newspapers and deliveries and stopping people from going to work, even when they are in essential services, are some of the bizarre rules that RWAs have come up with. An RWA member of a society in east Delhi says that he is monitoring the main gate through CCTV footage. “The SHO of every area is contacting RWAs to ensure enforcement of lockdown. Then why should we be blamed for it? I have told the residents that if they will go out for unnecessary work, I will inform the police,” he shared. Dhananjay Gairola, a resident of west Delhi, says, “I had to put the RWA WhatsApp group on mute because they share bizarre illogical COVID-19-related information. I couldn’t leave the group because I have to keep track of what service is being stopped by them next – the rules are insane and they change it whenever they feel like.” Despite assurance from experts that newspapers don’t spread coronavirus, many RWAs jumped to ban newspapers too. A Vasant Kunj resident says, “Our RWA stopped newspaper distribution in the society last month, and we still don’t get them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rwas-behaving-like-hostel-wardens-during-lockdown-residents/articleshow/75541245.cms||Niharika Lal
May 5, 2020||Gurgaon||RWAs behaving like hostel wardens during lockdown: Residents||The battles between residents and RWAs are never-ending – they are fought over entry of guests, locked gates, feeding of strays etc. Residents often accuse RWAs of making inane rules while RWAs stress that the rules are for safety reasons. The coronavirus lockdown, that has been in place for over a month, has added a substantial amount of fuel to this already raging fire. Even though some restrictions are valid to tackle the pandemic and many RWAs are helping elderly residents and those less fortunate, the daily diktats and obsessive monitoring has earned some overreaching RWAs the tag of hostel wardens from residents. Banning newspapers and deliveries and stopping people from going to work, even when they are in essential services, are some of the bizarre rules that RWAs have come up with. An RWA member of a society in east Delhi says that he is monitoring the main gate through CCTV footage. “The SHO of every area is contacting RWAs to ensure enforcement of lockdown. Then why should we be blamed for it? I have told the residents that if they will go out for unnecessary work, I will inform the police,” he shared. Dhananjay Gairola, a resident of west Delhi, says, “I had to put the RWA WhatsApp group on mute because they share bizarre illogical COVID-19-related information. I couldn’t leave the group because I have to keep track of what service is being stopped by them next – the rules are insane and they change it whenever they feel like.” Despite assurance from experts that newspapers don’t spread coronavirus, many RWAs jumped to ban newspapers too. A Vasant Kunj resident says, “Our RWA stopped newspaper distribution in the society last month, and we still don’t get them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rwas-behaving-like-hostel-wardens-during-lockdown-residents/articleshow/75541243.cms||Niharika Lal
May 5, 2020||Business||Firms take baby steps towards resuming production||NEW DELHI: After nearly a month-and-a-half in lockdown, manufacturers began taking baby steps towards opening factories, but under strict hygiene restrictions and social distancing norms. Many plants across the country opened for pre-production schedules, and started preparations for full production, with a handful of staff, as sanitised factories and detailed safety strictures around the movement of people and parts greeted workers. Companies that initiated production processes were from sectors such as automobiles, consumer durables, liquor and electronics, amongst others. They have mandated the government’s Aarogya Setu app for their staff, while Maruti Suzuki has also developed an additional internal app for its workers. Those initiating steps to start production include Hyundai’s factory in Tamil Nadu, Hero’s plants in Haryana and Uttarakhand, Panasonic’s facility in Haryana, Mahindra Tractors' factory in Uttarakhand, Hitachi in Gujarat, Foxconn’s facilities in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Whirlpool in Pondicherry, parts maker Schaeffler in Gujarat, and French liquor maker Pernod Ricard across many states (it has 29 factories). Top electronics and durables companies Samsung and LG, and Chinese phone major Oppo have also sought permission from the UP government to open up their plants and resume production. Companies say that as they move towards opening factories, the major concern remains navigating locked zones. This includes transport of parts and finished goods; movement of workers and access to trained manpower (many have gone back to their hometowns); and opening of retail points. Hero MotoCorp said it will re-open two plants in Haryana and one in Uttarakhand in a graded manner. "We are now ready to hit the ground sprinting as we commence the re-opening of our facilities... With meticulous planning and enthusiasm, we are set to recommence operations," Hero Moto chairman Pawan Munjal said. Hyundai said production will begin this week. “Hyundai India plans to re-start preparatory operations on Wednesday while adhering to guidelines laid out by government authorities.” Manu Kumar Jain, MD of Xiaomi, said the company has started online and offline retail, opening up stores in green locations. “Our manufacturing plants in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu would resume manufacturing very soon. These are run by Foxconn.” Mercedes Benz, which has a factory at Pune, also said it will begin production later this week, though it is still assessing the on-ground situation regarding the movement of staff, and other requisite material used for manufacturing. One area of concern for many companies is how to ensure social-distancing across production lines. The existing infrastructure was never created with such factors in mind, and thus the dilemma. German component major Schaeffler has resumed operations at its Gujarat plant. "… Schaeffler’s plants in Talegaon (Maharashtra), Maneja (Gujarat) and Hosur (Tamil Nadu) are also prepared to resume operations," the company said. Nippon Paints India, which has a factory in Bawal Haryana, said it has received permission to get only 25% of its employees in. “We are starting with only 45 people right now, against a capacity of 150-180 people,” Sharad Malhotra, president (automotive) of the company, said. Manish Sharma, president of Panasonic India, said the company has divided the factory into various demarcated zones. "... workers will get off the bus and get into their assigned zones preventing any engagement between them... We plan to start with 30% capacity and slowly take it up to 50% in a month’s time." Gurmeet Singh, Chairman of Johnson Controls-Hitachi AC, said that while existing inventory will take care of domestic demand, the company will work towards fulfilling pending export orders that need to completed on a priority basis. "We are going to address the supply chain issue by following a very high level of indigenization in the raw materials," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firms-take-baby-steps-towards-resuming-production/articleshow/75544175.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 5, 2020||India||Migrants grow restless, clashes in Surat & Bengaluru, chaos in Mumbai||The suffering, frustration and despair of 40 days in lockdown began to brim its banks on Monday as tides of migrants desperate to return home to UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal from Surat clashed with police and torched vehicles. Angered over the delay in sending them home, hundreds of migrant workers turned violent in Bengaluru following rumours that the temporary camp near Bangalore International Exhibition Centre, where they had gathered, was nothing but a quarantine facility. Four police personnel were attacked and a few police vehicles were damaged. Police had to resort to a lathicharge to rein in the restless workers who threw stones at the cops. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news There was growing resentment in Ahmedabad, too, as migrants ran from pillar to post on learning they had to physically register themselves for the journey home and had to be dispersed by police when too many gathered at the collectorate even as the state said at least 21,500 had already been sent home. The failure to anticipate their desperation, and to communicate effectively, was apparent. Many didn’t seem to know they had to register. A lot of people had their forms rejected for minor errors. And others found they had to fill out a new, entirely different form. In Mumbai, Mohammad Hanif, a migrant from UP’s Balrampur who had waited at Kajupada police station in Saki Naka for five hours, said, "There was such a crowd that police hit us on our legs with sticks. They told us to leave and said they would not accept our forms today. This whole thing is a farce. Finally, the only way to get home will be on foot." He had tried to leave once before, on a truck, but had been sent back from Powai. In Pune, police resorted to a "mild lathicharge" after a crowd of 500-600 migrants gathered at Warje police station to fill forms and blocked the road. As queues outside Mumbai’s police stations swelled, the anger and frustration was palpable. Many complained the forms they submitted at the police stations were rejected for minor errors after they had waited half the day to submit them. "I spent 10 hours getting a medical certificate yesterday. But police did not take the application saying there was some new form now," said Altaf, a migrant worker in Mumbai. "My employee’s form was rejected because they said the surname was wrong. Another was rejected because the destination Banda district was not found," said Imran Khan, a social worker from Sewree. DCP Pranay Ashok, though, said, "We are accepting whatever forms are being submitted, irrespective of the destination state." He also refuted claims of a lathicharge in the area. Over the past few days, 35,000 migrant workers in relief camps in Maharashtra have been sent to their home states, said officials. But the demand is much higher. By Monday, Mumbai had received 35,000 applications and Pune 15,502. In Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu, a crowd of about 100 workers that had thronged the station to board trains going from Kerala to states in the north were made to move to a temporary camp at a municipal school to register themselves. The crowd here soon swelled to 5,000 people tired of waiting. In Vellore, a crowd of 200 migrant workers protested at the SP’s office to demand passes to leave the state. Though most workers wore masks, social-distancing norms were nowhere to be seen at Tiruppur station. In Ahmedabad, Mohammed Shakil Alalm, a construction worker from Katihar, Bihar, said he was told by his fellow workers that migrants would be registered at the collectorate and taken to their destinations from Sabarmati railway station. "There was no such thing and I was shooed away. I do not have a job, nor money, so I do not know where to go for help," Alam said. After the lockdown was imposed on March 23, migrants in Surat have resorted to angry protests several times. Monday’s violence began when a large group, including women, who were already furious at being sent back from Gujarat’s borders on Friday night, resorted to heavy stone-pelting and vandalising vehicles in Vareli, a textile manufacturing cluster adjoining Surat. Police used at least 40 teargas shells and resorted to a lathicharge as the mob was unrelenting. Teams of policemen were seen chasing the migrants into lanes. About 200 people were arrested for rioting. "At least 3,000 workers were involved in the rioting, and a few of them even hurled acid bottles on cops," IGP (Surat range) Rajkumar Pandian said. Radhey Shyam Tripathi, a textile worker from Varanasi, said he would not return to Surat again. "Humko kutton ki tarah bhagaya gaya Dahod se (We were chased away like dogs from the Dahod border)," Tripathi said, adding, "We spent money from our own pockets to reach our native places. Still we faced humiliation and were sent back. Our crime is that we want to go home." Girishanker Mishra, from Gaya in Bihar, said, "If this is the treatment we are getting in Gujarat, we will not return. We had a very humiliating experience at Dahod. They (cops) treated us like terrorists." The bus carrying Tripathi and 56 fellow workers was recently sent back from Dahod checkpost by police. Many others like him, from UP and Bihar, feel neglected when they see migrant workers from states like Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh leaving by buses and special trains. In Valsad district too, hundreds of labourers had blocked the roads but later relented. According to railway officials in Gujarat, as of Monday evening, 13 trains carrying 15,558 passengers had left for UP and Odisha, while two more trains were expected to leave for Dhanbad, in Jharkhand, and Patna, in Bihar, late on Monday. Of the 13 trains that have already left, four went from Ahmedabad, one from Palanpur, one from Vadodara and seven from Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-grow-restless-clashes-in-surat-bluru-chaos-in-mumbai/articleshow/75544447.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||After FB, US firm to pay $750m for 1.2% stake in Jio||MUMBAI: After Facebook, US-based private equity firm Silver Lake will pay Rs 5,656 crore ($750 million) to acquire 1.15% in the digital and telecom unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). The Jio Platforms deal, Silver Lake’s biggest investment in India, will help RIL accelerate its debt-reduction plans. The transaction values Jio Platforms at Rs 5.15 lakh crore ($69 billion)—a 12% premium in rupee terms to the enterprise valuation implied by Facebook’s investment in the Indian company. On April 22, Facebook said it will spend Rs 43,574 crore ($5.7 billion) for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, which owns India’s largest wireless operator. Both the deals, coming amid the pandemic-induced lockdown, are subject to regulatory approvals. In 2013, Silver Lake made its first investment in India through Bengaluru-based Eka Software Solutions. The fund’s investment in Jio Platforms establishes a new pricing benchmark for the Indian company that will see more external investors in the coming months. In its quarterly earnings commentary on April 30, RIL said that it has received interest from multiple global investors to buy additional stakes in Jio Platforms and that it would announce investments similar to the Facebook transaction. In that context, though the Silver Lake investment is positive, the size is very small compared to the Facebook deal and hence investors would like to see more marquee transactions in Jio Platforms, wrote analysts at JP Morgan in their research report. While RIL has not specified the total quantum of stake it intends to sell in Jio Platforms to outside parties, the share sales form part of chairman Mukesh Ambani’s broader plan to take the unit public in the future. Last October, RIL placed the entire digital and telecom assets in its 100% arm Jio Platforms in order to bring in external investors. Foreign investors now have a holding of 11.14% in Jio Platforms, a startup launched in late 2016 and that has become a force to reckon within the telecommunications industry with 388 million subscribers. The digital services business earned an operating profit of Rs 14,363 crore on an annual revenue of Rs 68,462 crore—up 64% and 41% from fiscal 2019. RIL has launched an aggressive programme to augment its balance sheet, which includes stake sales in its subsidiaries, rights offering and slowing down on fresh investments. The nation’s most valued enterprise, which is shifting its positioning from an energy-driven player to a consumer/technology-focused company, has a debt of Rs 3.36 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020. Ambani had said that he plans to make RIL a net debt-free company by the end of this financial year. Founded in 1999, Silver Lake, which manages assets worth $40 billion, places its bet mainly on technology and tech-enabled opportunities. The fund has investments in Dell Technologies, Twitter, Airbnb and Alibaba, to name a few. Its portfolio of investments collectively generates an annual revenue of over $230 billion and employs 3.7 lakh people worldwide. “Silver Lake has an outstanding record of being a valuable partner for leading technology companies globally. We are excited to leverage insights from their global technology relationships for the Indian digital society’s transformation,” said RIL chairman Ambani. Jio Platforms is Silver Lake’s third deal in the past one month after online travel booking firm Expedia and home-renting company Airbnb. “Jio Platform’s incredibly strong and entrepreneurial management team have brought extraordinary engineering capabilities to bear on bringing the power of low-cost digital services to a mass consumer and small businesses population. The market potential they are addressing is enormous, and we are honoured and pleased to have been invited to partner with Mukesh Ambani and the team at Reliance and Jio,” said Silver Lake Co-CEO Egon Durban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-fb-us-firm-to-pay-750m-for-1-2-stake-in-jio/articleshow/75544478.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 5, 2020||Delhi||First day: Tepid show, but liquor flows||NEW DELHI: Fear of catching the Covid-19 infection, absence of public transport, restrictions on movement imposed by other NCR cities and an apparent communication gap between the Delhi government and police led to a lukewarm response to the new relaxations in lockdown on Monday. A majority of the domestic workers and other self-employed service providers decided to give work a miss, partly because of absence of public transport and partly haunted by the fear of the coronavirus. A handful who did turn up at the gates of colonies and other gated communities were either turned away by RWAs or subjected to rigorous checks. After six weeks of a complete lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Sunday stressed it was time to learn to live with the virus and resume economic activities. He had pointed out Delhi was in a precarious financial situation. However, it seems it will be a while before people resume their normal routine. While Delhi government offices sprang to a semblance of life on Monday, few private offices resumed work, faced with a clutch of restrictions — including a 7-to-7 window — and with their staff unable to reach because of absence of public transport and NCR curbs. Many were still planning to reconfigure their office space and ensure a sanitised environment. Similarly, industrial areas seemed to be in a wait-and-watch mode with many associations saying the police too were not allowing them to start operations. They were also plagued by the problem of shortage of employees and disruption in the supply chain of raw materials. Most shops selling non-essentials didn’t open with a few exceptions. When an enthusiastic response led to crowds swelling in east Delhi areas, the cops forced shops to down shutters. Significantly, most paan and cigarette shops were closed despite being allowed to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-day-tepid-show-but-liquor-flows/articleshow/75544540.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: 65-acre Tamil Nadu market is now a super spreader||The Koyambedu wholesale market, which attracts people from across Tamil Nadu looking to sell their produce or seeking jobs, has become a super spreader of Covid-19, pushing many districts back into the red zone from orange as infections rise. From Cuddalore in northern Tamil Nadu to Dindigul in the south, people who visited the 65-acre market that also gets trucks from all over the country have started testing positive in droves. Almost all the 122 positive cases reported in Cuddalore on Monday can be traced back to Koyambedu. Test results of 450 more Koyambedu contacts are awaited. Forty-nine people from Villupuram who visited the market tested positive on Monday, while 33 had tested positive on Sunday. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updatesNow, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Dindigul and Tenkasi are all likely to be reclassified as red zones. These were among the 14 districts in the state that had moved from being red zones to orange just a few days ago. The Koyambedu cluster has sent the official machinery in the districts into overdrive — border control has been stepped up to stop, test and isolate people coming from Chennai. Villupuram superintendent of police S Jayaram said four centres have been set up to quarantine 459 people who visited the market, and 287 of their close contacts. District authorities of Tiruppur and Salem have issued advisories and helpline numbers asking people linked to Koyambedu to come forward for testing voluntarily. Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi said that of the 100-odd people who returned from Koyambedu and were tested, ten tested positive on Monday. Tracing and screening of their contacts is being done,’’ she said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Collectors and health officials in western districts have also raised their guard. In Tiruppur, two loadmen who travelled in a truck carrying watermelons from Koyambedu two days ago have tested positive. In Coimbatore, 28 people with travel history to Koyambedu have been traced so far, and in Nilgiris 43 people have been traced. Deputy director of health services Dr G Ramesh Kumar said the 28 people traced in Coimbatore are from Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and Pollachi. “They will be tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” he said. Ariyalur and Perambalur, two districts in central Tamil Nadu had maintained single-digit cases all this while. No more. Over the past four days, the number has shot up from eight to 34 in Ariyalur and nine to 36 in Perambalur. And, all of them are linked to Koyambedu. Since there are few employment opportunities for villagers in these two districts, they do odd jobs at Koyambedu market to supplement income from their farmland. Watch Covid-19 in India: 65-acre Tamil Nadu market is now a super spreader||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/65-acre-tn-market-is-now-a-super-spreader/articleshow/75544628.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 5, 2020||Surat||Seven patients discharged from Tapi, Surat, Navsari districts||Surat: Seven Covid-19 positive patients were discharged on Monday from Tapi, Surat and Navsari districts after their recovery and repeat samples tested negative for the virus. No fresh cases were reported from Bharuch, Navsari, Tapi, Valsad and Dang districts on Monday. However, three fresh cases were reported from Surat, which took the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district to 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-patients-discharged-from-tapi-surat-navsari-districts/articleshow/75542254.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hubballi||Haveri district reports its first Covid-19 Case||HAVERI: Close on the heels of Davanagere district losing its tag as a ‘Green Zone’ district, yet another district in North Karnataka is now staring at the possibility of losing its claim to this label. Unlike Davanagere, which had lapsed into a lull for three weeks after three cases were reported initially, Haveri had managed to keep the novel coronavirus from its borders for almost two months. But a 32-year-old man who came to the district on April 28 from Mumbai has tested positive, bringing to an end Haveri’s clean record. The Haveri district administration, which had received a deserved pat on its back from the government and residents for effectively preventing an outbreak, has suffered a jolt. However, led by deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai, the district administration appears to be prepared to tackle this challenge. The 32-year-old man, the 639th in Karnataka to test positive for the novel coronavirus, arrived in Savanur in Haveri along with his brother and nephew. The district administration wasted no time in getting him admitted to the Haveri district hospital, and subsequently cordoning off areas within a five-kilometre radius of the patient’s house. While those localities falling within a three-kilometre radius will be classified as ‘containment area’, the area extending beyond that has been designated buffer zone. “We have sent the throat swab samples of the patient’s brother, nephew and some of the other primary contacts that we have confirmed he was in touch with. We are awaiting the results of these tests,” Bajpai said. The DC said that the district administration was going through the patient’s travel history, and would identify all his primary contacts in the district. “So far, we have identified 21 of his primary contacts, all of whom we have placed in quarantine. We have also managed to trace secondary contacts, who have been told to quarantine themselves at home. Police have been directed to file an FIR against the owner of the truck, and the driver, who ferried the patient and his relatives to Haveri from Mumbai in violation of the lockdown,” Bajpai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/haveri-district-reports-its-first-covid-19-case/articleshow/75541311.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Freshworks doubles its revenue rate in 18 months||Chennai: SaaS-based customer engagement platform Freshworks on Monday announced that it has reached an annual recurring revenue of $200 million, doubling it in 18 months since it crossed the $100 million mark. It also said it has appointed Tyler Sloat as their new chief financial officer (CFO). Sloat, who worked in California-based payments company Zuora, led the company through its IPO and would lead Freshworks’ journey too.He is replacing Suresh Seshadri, who had to step down owing to personal reasons.Sloat is charged with maintaining sustainable growth across its customer segments, overseeing all accounting, finance, legal and IT functions.“The company is uniquely positioned with a suite of affordable business products that deliver outstanding value. We are seeing increased demand for products that better automate customer support and IT services while helping teams work better remotely during this critical time,” said Tyler Sloat, CFO, Freshworks.“As we emerge from this new era, Freshworks will rally in support of businesses to help them navigate changing customer expectations and behaviours,” said Girish Mathrubootham, Freshworks founder and CEO. The company has not laid off any of its employees or announced a paycut for them so far. “Like many companies, we have pledged not to lay off employees. At Freshworks, we have also adopted a “no one left behind” policy to ensure that our housekeeping staff and other hourly workers that support us continue to be paid,” added Mathrubhootham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/freshworks-doubles-its-revenue-rate-in-18-months/articleshow/75543040.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Uber, Ola ops start outside of red zone||Bengaluru: Ride-hailing applications Ola and Uber have started their operations in green and orange zones on Monday. Operations in top cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai, which remain under red zone, remain limited to medical and emergency services. While Ola has started its service in 100 cities, Uber said it is operational in over 25 cities. The two companies have also come up with a slew of safety notifications like allowing just two passengers in each cab, encouraging digital payments, and mandating use of masks by both passengers and drivers. Ola said that all its drivers will self-authenticate with a selfie before each ride if they are wearing a mask and airconditioning will remain turned off. “Right now there is more supply of vehicles as demand remains low,” said an executive at one of these companies. Two-wheeler rental companies like Bounce and Vogo have also been tying up with corporates for longer-term rentals for employees as public transportation remains shut. Bike taxi startup Rapido is also focusing on delivering essentials as demand for rides remains low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-ola-ops-start-outside-of-red-zone/articleshow/75543212.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 51 new containment zones push count up to 318||KOLKATA: Fifty-one more localities across the city have had to be barricaded over the past week. With these additions, the containment-zone count has shot up to 318, an increase of nearly 20% in a week. Kolkata is among 20 districts in the country where the situation has been identified as grave. Much like Mumbai and Chennai, Kolkata accounts for a lion’s share of Covid-positive cases reported in the state followed by Howrah and North 24 Parganas. While Bengal registered 1,259 cases till Monday evening, Kolkata accounted for 659, including 24 reported on Monday. Alarmed by the virus spilling out of containment zones, police and civic authorities in Kolkata and Howrah have adopted a new model of random tests in hotspots. In Howrah’s Golabari, swab samples were collected from around 100 residents on Monday. KMC will also start four swab-collection centres in the worst-hit areas to help the health department conduct rapid tests over the next couple of weeks. At an urgently convened meeting by mayor Firhad Hakim on Monday, 40 containment zones, including Belgachhia, Burrabazar, Jorasanko, Jorabagan, Amherst Street, Bowbazar, Entally, Park Circus, Taltala, Tiljala, Topsia, Kasba-Ballygunge, Metiabruz, Garden Reach and areas off EM Bypass, were identified as particularly threatening with multiple cases being reported over the past 10 days. Deputy mayor Atin Ghosh and physician and state Covid-19 panel member Abhijit Chowdhury were present at the meeting. The police top brass also held extensive meetings on Monday. The third phase of the lockdown will be more challenging compared to the last two since there will be more economic activity and increased vehicular movement. “Many containment zones are also business hubs and others serve as thoroughfares for many whose offices opened up on Monday. Establishing access control at all these places will be our priority,” said an officer. Special CP Jawed Shamim said each zone would be evaluated individually. Sources said double barricading certain lanes linked to main roads will be done by midnight on Monday. Lalbazar is also likely to ask the reserve force and armed police — along with special branch and SCO — to help local cops. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation authorities are also worried over the number of cases being reported from Salt Lake, particularly from blocks in Sector III. With two more containment zones in the township, citizens expressed concern over the virus spread. The road beside Mizoram House in IB Block was barricaded on Saturday after two guests were hospitalized with Covid-19 symptoms. One died after testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/51-new-containment-zones-push-city-count-up-to-318/articleshow/75542340.cms||Saikat Ray
May 5, 2020||Patna||Rs 378 crore transferred to students’ accounts: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday said that the state government has transferred Rs 378.7 crore for midday meal (MDM) into the bank accounts of 1.29 crore listed schoolchildren from Class I to V. He said the government has decided to transfer the money through direct benefit transfer (DBT) method for 34 working days of the lockdown period from March 24 to May 3, imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Modi also said that schoolchildren concerned could not be provided food under the MDM scheme due to lockdown and accordingly, money was transferred into their bank accounts. Giving the break-up of the amount, Modi said that Rs 151.48 crore pertained to the expenditure which was supposed to be incurred on procuring food and another chunk of Rs 227.22 crore was earmarked for cooking of food, as well as on purchase of items as cooking oil, salt, spices, fruits, milk and egg. “The government has spent Rs 151.48 crore from its own plan fund, which will be later reimbursed by the Centre,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-rs-378-crore-transferred-to-students-a/cs/articleshow/75541026.cms||Abhay Singh
May 5, 2020||Surat||Palej woman sarpanch fortifies village against Covid invasion||Surat: “We have entered the third phase of lockdown and our town has successfully kept Covid-19 at bay,” beams sarpanch Naseembanu Pathan, with justifiable pride ringing in her determined voice. Welcome to Palej, a village near Bharuch, where the sarpanch and her husband, Salim Khan, a panchayat member and an advocate, have left no stone unturned to fortify their hamlet against virus invasion. Soon after the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24, Palej panchayat immediately sealed nine entry and exits points to the village, disconnecting it with the rest of the state. The sarpanch had vowed to strictly implement lockdown in their own way. Palej has a population of more than 20,000, almost the size of a town, and is surrounded by industries where large number of migrant workers are employed. Interestingly, Ikhar village, located nearly 5km away from Palej, reported four Covid-19 positive cases, but Palej still holds its fort against the killer virus. Bharuch district has nearly 27 positive cases. “We deployed a team of volunteers at each point to ensure that nobody goes outside without valid reason and nobody comes in too. Inside the village, we barricaded all streets and only allowed people to come out if there was an emergency,” the sarpanch told TOI. While fighting the virus, the sarpanch also ensured that nobody goes hungry in the village. She distributed quota of food grains to ration card holders and also provided one month’s ration for free by spending from her own pocket to 275 card-less poor families. “I created 11 WhatsApp broadcast groups of villagers to keep them updated on the steps being taken as well as the dos and don'ts during lockdown,” she added. The village that is close to the busy Ahmedabad-Mumbai national highway-48 has people living abroad too. With villagers’ help, the panchayat identified around 95 people, which included 30 from abroad, who had arrived in the village just before the lockdown. “I personally took them to the government facility for screening and ensured they don't violate self-isolation rules,” Salim Khan Pathan told TOI. The panchayat also ran a kitchen for 15 days to provide food to more than 250 migrant workers stuck in the village. VILLAGE TOLD COPS TO USE DRONES In a bid to deter lockdown violators, the Palej panchayat approached police and asked them to use drones and detain vehicles. “Over 70 vehicles were detained by the police, which sent a strong message among villagers.” At least 15 people were penalized for not wearing masks and for spitting on public roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/palej-woman-sarpanch-fortifies-village-against-covid-invasion/articleshow/75542338.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 5, 2020||Patna||Banka barber refuses hair cut to youths, killed||PATNA: A 42-year barber from a Banka village had to pay with his life for refusing to accompany some local youths during lockdown to give them a hair cut and shave. Dinesh Thakur had only last month returned from Mumbai while his son is still stuck there. Thakur had been making do with odd jobs here and there in the village since returning from Mumbai. But when on Saturday two of the accused came to ask the barber to accompany them to another village, he refused as he did not want to travel on road due to the lockdown. The two youths, who are in their early 20s, returned in a huff after threatening and abusing him. The youths returned in a large group on Saturday evening around 7 pm and took him to a secluded spot near a pond where they shot him. The incident came to light on Sunday morning when local residents spotted the barber’s body and called the police. The SHO of Amarpur police station, Kumar Sunny, said, “Nine people have been named as accused in the FIR lodged by the deceased’s wife Muso Devi, who alleged that her husband was killed for his refusal to give the youths hair cut and shave them. Three of the accused, Bipin Das, Sujesh Das and Jitendra Das, have been arrested and raids were on to nab the remaining accused.” He added, “The killing of the barber led to tension among the residents of the two neighbouring villages.” The mukhiya of Maimna village, Munni Devi, had to face the ire of the residents of the deceased’s Navtolia village when she called on his family to console them. She had to take shelter in a house till she was rescued by the police. Banka DSP (headquarters) D C Srivastava said, “Thakur had returned to his native village from Mumbai, where he had moved four years ago, following the nationwide lockdown. His elder son Binod Thakur is still stranded in Mumbai.” The police have so far failed to recover the illegal weapon used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/banka-barber-refuses-hair-cut-to-youths-killed/articleshow/75540826.cms||Ramashankar
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||Anand gets its 80th patient after 3 days||Vadodara/Anand: After remaining Covid free for three consecutive days, a Covid-19 positive case surfaced in Anand district on Monday. A 71-year-old man, resident of Darji no Khancho in the coastal town Khambhat’s Kadiya pole, tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the tally of positive cases in Anand district has reached 80 while the total number of positive cases in Khambhat was 63. The day also witnessed three patients getting discharged. A 45-year-old man from Darji ni Wadi, a 75-year-old woman from Paliyari and a 62-year-old woman from Kadiya pole areas of Khambhat town were discharged on Monday. Currently, there are 35 active cases in Anand district of which 15 are being treated at Civil Hospital, Anand, 19 at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad and one at S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. While one patient is on ventilator, three others are receiving oxygen support. The condition of 31 patients is said to be stable. So far, 656 samples have been tested in the district of which 576 were found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-gets-its-80th-patient-after-3-days/articleshow/75540637.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Patna||Patna Junction porters struggle to make ends meet||PATNA: The Covid-19 lockdown and the subsequent ban on the movement of trains have brought misery in the lives of porters, who carry luggage and other loads. While a large number of them have returned to their native places, others are dependent on their lifelong savings to make ends meet. Patna Junction Coolie Union leader, Dharamnath Yadav, claimed that porters had been leading miserable lives ever since the suspension of train services to contain the spread of coronavirus. “People, who receive monthly salaries, are in a better position, but daily wagers like us live from hand to mouth. Of the 170-odd porters working at the Patna Junction, most have exhausted their savings and are without food and money,” Dharamnath said and added that the porters had approached the railway authorities for help. One of the porters, Sunil Yadav, who used to earn around Rs 600 on a daily basis before the lockdown, said he had run out of money. With no cash in hand, Sunil’s colleague, Nivas Paswan, has returned to Barh, his native place. He told this newspaper, “Fulfilling the needs of my family had become a challenge. Hence, we came back home.” Others complained that the government’s approach towards them was disappointing. Shiv Karan said, “It is impossible to sustain my family without money and food. I feel helpless because porters like me have been neglected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-junction-porters-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75541106.cms||Archi Rani
May 5, 2020||Business||Squeezed pay loan companies halt fresh fund disbursements||Chennai: Lenders who offer loans to salaried employees have been choked as fresh loan disbursements have been impacted due to the on-going liquidity crisis, delayed repayment, and companies ordering salary cuts and lay-offs.Loanwalle.com, which gives 30-day short-term payday loans said the liquidity crisis was severe as no bank or NBFCs were sanctioning fresh loans for onward lending. Its founder Sachin Mittal, said, “Our loan disbursement has seen a drastic fall from 10,000 applications in March, to 2,000 in April, 2020. The bigger challenge is borrowers who think, the RBI announced a three-month moratorium, is applicable on these loans as well. Besides, almost 80% of the loans disbursed in March have defaulted.”Others including EarlySalary, which provides early salary loans to white-coloured employees said their loan disbursement has declined from Rs 160 crore in February to Rs 40 crore in April, 2020. Akshay Mehrotra, co-founder and CEO of EarlySalary, said, “We have seen delayed EMI payment doubled in April. This is calculated on the number of customers who repaid in the first week of a month without any notifications via mail or messages. We have recorded EMI repayment worth Rs 80-Rs 90 crore so far.” EarlySalary’s average loan ticket size stands at Rs 25,000 at an interest rate between 2%-2.5% per month. With growing uncertainty and talks of lay-offs in the travel related industries, companies have also stopped admitting loan applications from new customers. “From April 1, we have stopped credit to new customers, from the travel and airline industries due to the uncertainty in the airline sector. We see a surge in the new customers (almost 10%) from the salaried class segment in the third week of a month. Existing customers (80%) borrow in the beginning of the month, since they know how to manage their cash flow,” he added.Speaking on the importance of customer credit history, Prithvi Chandrasekhar, head of risk & analytics, InCred said, “Unlike the affluent segment whose credit scores are already available, blue-colored workers will have access to credit reduced due to poor documentation of credit history. Since the lockdown was announced in March, we have stopped originations, (i.e) no new loan applications were admitted for the consumer segment.” Personal loans to salaried employees for three-four year above Rs 2-Rs 3 lakh, above Rs 5 lakh for affluent segment.MoneyTap, which has salaried employee borrowers accounting to 85% of overall portfolio, has halted fresh lending to new customers. “We have taken a hit of 30%-40% on loan disbursement in April. Our customers who were inactive for two years, are now applying for a loan. About 10%-30% salaried employees have opted for a moratorium, while many are under the belief that they are automatically covered under the moratorium scheme. So, there is no fresh loan sanctioned for those willful defaulters,” said Anuj Kacker, COO & co-founder of MoneyTap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/squeezed-pay-loan-companies-halt-fresh-fund-disbursements/articleshow/75542980.cms||Mamtha Asokan
May 5, 2020||Patna||994 pupils of Magadh division arrive at Gaya||GAYA: Altogether 994 stranded medical and engineering aspirants, who were stuck up in Kota (Rajasthan) for about six weeks, arrived in Gaya by a special train that arrived on Monday noon. One of the returnees, having mild temperature has been put in an isolation ward located in Bodh Gaya. Confirming the shifting of one student, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that all others have been put under home quarantine. Warning home quarantined students against any violation of the written undertaking given by them to strictly follow the conditions, the DM said that strict action would be taken in case students are found violating the norms. The DM also hinted at surprise checks to monitor the quarantined students. Much to the disappointment of apparently distraught returnees, their parents and guardians were not there to give the warm hug and clean their misty eyes. Nevertheless, the boys and girls were happy as the long ordeal had finally come to an end. Kota was their gate way for medical and engineering career dream which they had to abandon midway. The students who returned today are from the five districts of Magadh division. Maximum of them are from Gaya followed by Nawada and Aurangabad districts with 259 and 241 students respectively. Apparently in a hurry to get back to home, the returnees had to complete formalities like thermal scanning to record body temperature, visible stamping proclaiming their new quarantine status and a declaration committing themselves to adhere to the quarantine protocol. From the station, they boarded block-wise ear marked buses to take them to their respective block headquarters where they will be picked up by their parents/guardians. “It is a mixed feeling. For the last several days we had little to eat except Maggi to survive. I am now desperately looking for home food,” said Pankaj of Barachatti. “Happy to be home but not happy at the shabby treatment and the somewhat unwanted tag given by the government,” said one of the returnees preferring anonymity. “We fail to understand why we were made to suffer that long. After all we travelled during the lockdown. The same arrangement could have been made earlier to prevent the untold agony of the last several weeks,” said another student. Asked whether more special trains carrying students/migrant workers would be reaching Gaya, station manager KK Tripathi said that he has no information in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/994-pupils-of-magadh-division-arrive-at-gaya/articleshow/75540691.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 5, 2020||Surat||Pay lockdown wages before letting Saurashtra diamond workers go: GDWU||Surat: Before allowing the diamond workers to travel to their native places in Saurashtra and North Gujarat, they should be paid their lockdown salaries, demanded Gujarat Diamond Workers Union (GDWU). The workers’ body has given the state government 24 hours ultimatum to instruct the diamond unit owners to pay dues to their stranded workers. GDWU has also threatened dharna in Varachha, if the unit owners, both big and small, fail to pay the wages. Ramesh Jilariya, president of GDWU said, “Diamond workers have not been paid the lockdown wages and even if they are allowed to go to their natives, they will be poverty stricken. We have made strong demands to the state government to ensure that they are not only paid their dues, but also given special buses to transport them to Saurashtra and North Gujarat.” According to GDWU, about 90% of the diamond workers in Surat have not received lockdown wages. The diamond unit owners paid the wages till March 22, with the promise to pay the dues when the units would reopen. “In the early days of lockdown, about one lakh people from Varachha have moved out to their hometowns in Saurashtra. Still, about 7 lakh people, mostly diamond workers and merchants are waiting for the government’s nod to travel to their hometowns,” said Jilariya. Sources in the labour department stated that about 80 diamond companies have been issued with notices for paying the lockdown wages to the workers. A senior officer in labour department said, “Since we are unable to visit the factories, we sent the notices on the official WhatsApp numbers of the diamond company owners to pay the lockdown wages to the workers. Majority of the owners have replied that they will pay the wages once the units are made operational.” Meanwhile, the BJP MLAs from Varachha, Katargam and Kamrej met state health minister, Kumar Kanani at his residence demanding the diamond workers to be allowed to travel to their hometowns in Saurashtra. Kanani is believed to have represented the issue to chief minister Vijay Rupani too. Talking with TOI, Kanani said, “The government is making arrangements for the travel of diamond workers to Saurashtra and North Gujarat, which will be announced soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pay-lockdown-wages-before-letting-saurashtra-diamond-workers-go-gdwu/articleshow/75542300.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||HD Kote taluk in Mysuru on edge after driver from Kerala tests +ve||Mysuru: HD Kote, which shares border with Kerala, is on the edge following reports that a truck driver who had stayed at Handpost in the taluk for two days, has tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, the Mysuru district administration tested 17 persons who had come in contact with him at Chunchanakatte and HD Kote. HD Kote has been put on alert since March, after a student tested positive in Kerala (after returning from China). Only goods vehicles are being allowed to cross this inter-state border since then. According to sources, the driver from Mananthavady town in Kerala had, a fortnight ago, stayed at Handpost for two days. He transported garlic from Mysuru district to Tamil Nadu. He was tested positive at his hometown on Sunday, and this has sent the authorities in HD Kote into a tizzy. They have traced 17 contacts — 11 from HD Kote and six from Chunchanakatte — who loaded and transported garlic in the presence of the driver. HD Kote tahsildar Manjunath said all of them have been medically tested, and the test results are expected on Tuesday. Following the development, local MLA Anil Chikkamadu met the taluk Covid-19 task force and discussed the issue. He told reporters that there is no need to panic as the driver has not visited HD Kote after being tested positive at his hometown. “As per the APMC receipts, he transported garlic from Mysuru to Tamil Nadu, from where he directly returned to his hometown on April 29,” he said, allaying fears over the virus spread. The MLA also stated that he will ask DC Abhiram G Sankar to act against the checkpost staff for not subjecting the driver for health checks. ——BOX—— Nanjanagud MLA sore over ‘derailed probe’ Mysuru: Nanjanagud MLA B Harshavardhan has alleged that the investigation into the Nanjanagud Covid-19 cluster case has derailed. While speaking to reporters after inspecting food kits, masks and sanitises meant for distribution in Nanjangud, the MLA said the incident has bought a bad name to the town. “The investigation has derailed. I didn’t get any cooperation. When I put pressure, an officer was appointed for investigation. But the investigation did not happen. Now, I’m at the receiving end for demanding justice,” he claimed. “Before the reopening of the factory, a meeting of all stakeholders, including the company representatives, will be convened by the DC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hd-kote-taluk-in-mysuru-on-edge-after-driver-from-kerala-tests-ve/articleshow/75541381.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Patna||It was scary, say students on reaching Barauni from Kota||BEGUSARAI: The huge sense of relief was writ large on the masked faces of about 1200 students, who reached Barauni Junction from Kota in Rajasthan by a special train on Monday morning. The students, hailing from eight districts of Munger division, underwent the mandatory medical screening at the railway station itself before boarding the buses parked outside for their respective destinations. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma and SP Awakash Kumar were there to monitor everything at the railway station. Arvind said the students from other districts, who had no symptoms of coronavirus, were sent to their respective destinations. “However, those having any symptoms would be quarantined here,” he said, adding the local students with no Covid symptom were first taken to Begusarai block premises from where their parents or guardians took them for home quarantine. Sri Harsh Gautam of Professors’ Colony described his stay at hostel in Kota since nationwide lockdown as a nightmare. “I was left along with seven other inmates in the hostel. Most of the time we used to remain confined to our rooms. The meals supplied by the hostel mess was irregular as the owners struggled for food supplies. Owing to the threat looming large, it was scary to venture outside even for a while. The studies suffered also as I struggled to cope up with the situation,” he said. “On Sunday, there was chaos all around at Kota Junction before the special train started its journey as a large number of stranded students, who were not registered for the journey, had gathered outside the railway station with hopes of anyhow making it to the train,” he added. Kajal Kumari said the hostel management took good care of the girls staying there. “However, with inmates from other states vacating the hostel one by one and the threat of being infected scared everyone. I wanted to get back home as soon as possible. The period will definitely have a hangover on my life at least for some time,” she said. Shreya Kumari of Khagaria, Jitendra Kumar and Akash Raj of Banka said the lockdown trauma would definitely have an adverse bearing on their studies for a while. “Right now, both of us want to be back home as quickly as possible,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/it-was-scary-say-students-on-reaching-barauni-from-kota/articleshow/75540661.cms||Rajiv Kumar
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Sergeant infected, state lays down SOP for cop safety||KOLKATA: A Jorabagn traffic sergeant was admitted to a private hospital on EM Bypass on Sunday after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had been in quarantine for the past two days. On Monday, special CP Jawed Shamim went to the Jorabagan police station and spoke to his colleagues. An SOP has now been laid down to ensure that officers remain safe. Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of the health department expert committee, said it had been advised to give hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to all primary responders, including cops. Lalbazar is in touch with the health department in this matter, sources said.  “Several cops are taking HCQ on their own and some are taking homoeopathy remedies. Each guard and police station has around 15 PPEs stocked centrally and another 10-12 procured through specific funds. From now on, PPEs are a must for those distributing food in containment zones with multiple Covid cases,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sergeant-infected-state-lays-down-sop-for-cop-safety/articleshow/75542398.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||RBI may ease provision rule, NBFCs to get funds||MUMBAI: Lenders — both banks and non-banks — are likely to get relief in provisioning requirements from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) with non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) in for an additional relief in terms of financing. Easing of provisioning requirement will enable lenders to grant relief to borrowers without hurting their own finances. On Monday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das and other senior officers had separate discussions with representatives of NBFCs and mutual funds. The governor acknowledged the role of the financial intermediaries and sought to understand issues facing them. NBFC representatives said that the two major issues facing the industry was the availability of finance and the need to restructure loans as repayment capacity among borrowers has been hit. With mutual funds, the central bank discussed the issue of lack of liquidity in the bond markets, which was hampering MFs’ operations. Speaking to TOI, a chief executive of an NBFC said that the RBI has assured that banks were free to extend a moratorium to finance companies and some have already done so. He added that State Bank of India is also likely to review its stance on extending the moratorium to finance companies. SBI did not respond to a query from TOI. Sources said that some lenders have already begun offering a moratorium to NBFCs. The RBI also sought to monitor the liquidity position of the finance companies given the extension of the lockdown. And with the risk-aversion among banks to lend to NBFCs, non-bank lenders have suggested that the RBI route funds through the Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi). “We have requested the RBI to allow a one-time window for the restructuring of all loans. This facility is currently available for loans to MSMEs and could now be considered for all other borrowers as well, given the environment. This restructuring may kindly be allowed without the need for a 5% provisioning as mandated by the current scheme,” said Mahesh Thakkar, director-general of the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC) — an association of non-bank lenders. In February, the RBI had allowed lenders to restructure loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) given the stress in the sector. He said that borrowers would require more than a three-month moratorium to get back on track. Last week, the FIDC had written to the finance minister, seeking a partial guarantee scheme by the government of up to Rs 1 lakh crore for purchase of priority sector asset pools by banks and provision of lines of credit through development institutions like the Sidbi, Nabard and National Housing Bank. RBI takes stock of MFs’ liquidity situationIn the first meeting with top executives from the mutual fund industry since the launch of RBI’s Rs 50,000-crore special funding window, governor Shaktikanta Das took stock of the effectiveness of the MF industry’s liquidity situation. He also assured to act quickly to smoothen the hurdles the industry faces, provided fund houses are prompt in reaching out to the central bank. The governor and several top central bankers discussed about the impact of measures taken by the RBI with regard to the provision of liquidity, reviewed the functioning of bond markets and spoke about steps to be taken for the future, an RBI release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-may-ease-provision-rule-nbfcs-to-get-funds/articleshow/75543342.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 5, 2020||Patna||Lockdown wreaks havoc on sleep cycles||PATNA: Amid the third phase of the Covid-19 lockdown, stress and anxiety have altered the sleep schedules of many youngsters in the city. Those, who used to sleep for almost eight hours every night, are struggling to go to bed early now. Kankarbagh resident Anjali Singh noticed that her sleep pattern was adversely affected by the lockdown. She said, “I always slept before 11pm, but the current lockdown has changed my routine completely. Working from home and not getting enough sleep these days is really stressful.” Bailey Road resident Aryan Raj even consulted a psychiatrist due to acute sleep deprivation. “Insufficient sleep began affecting my mental health. I, therefore, got in touch with a psychiatrist, who asked me to rely on physical exercises and a healthy diet,” he told this newspaper. Meanwhile, psychiatrists claimed that stress and insomnia were connected. Santosh Kumar, nodal officer of the de-addiction centre at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, pointed out, “Working from home and lack of a proper routine have disrupted the sleep patterns of many people. Some of them are consuming medicines without consulting doctors, which has affected their mental health.” Talking about different ways to improve the sleep cycle during the lockdown, Santosh said, “Condition your mind in such a way that you go to bed only if you feel sleepy. Also, try exercises and meditation.” Clinical psychologist Binda Singh claimed, “This lockdown has resulted in a number of ailments, including sleep disorders. I am receiving a lot of calls from patients seeking help.” Citing the example of a Muzaffarpur man, who recently contacted her, Binda said, “He is so stressed due to the lockdown that he is unable to sleep well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-wreaks-havoc-on-sleep-cycles/articleshow/75540944.cms||Archi Rani
May 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Few new prisoners amid lockdown 3.0||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown is a great relief for the jail authorities as the number of law violators sent to judicial custody has drastically reduced in the state during the period. The Beur central jail, the largest among the 59 prisons in Bihar, is hardly receiving five to 10 new prisoners these days. “The number of new prisoners is almost negligible compared to pre-lockdown period,” its superintendent Jawahar Lal Prabhakar said on Monday. According to the senior officials of prison directorate, on an average 50-60 prisoners were sent to Beur jail by respective courts every day before the lockdown since March 25. However, the number has come down to less than 10. At present, 3,700 prisoners are lodged in the Beur jail against the sanctioned capacity of 3,500 inmates. Recently, over 600 of its inmates were shifted to other jails in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. The situation is the same in Purnia central jail. “Only one or two prisoners are brought here every day. Before the lockdown, 20-25 new prisoners were admitted to this jail every day,” its superintendent Jitendra Kumar said. Purnia central jail has 1291 inmates against the sanctioned capacity of 1148. The situation in Motihari, Buxar, Shaheed Khudiram Bose central jail at Muzaffarpur and Jubba Sahni central jail at Bhagalpur is n different. IG (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra said before the lockdown, the jails across the state used to receive 400 to 500 prisoners every day. “Now the number is less than 100,” he said over phone on Monday. Mishra attributed the drastic fall in new prisoners’ number to the nationwide lockdown as most of the people except for the corona warriors are staying indoors. So the crime rate has declined and also the arrest of the warranted people is not on the priority list of the law enforcing agencies. A practising lawyer of Muzaffarpur, Bhavesh Upadhyay, said those booked under the Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act 2016 are being released on bail from the courts. Notably, a large number of the jail inmates are facing charges of violating the prohibition law in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/few-new-prisoners-amid-lockdown-3-0/articleshow/75541068.cms||Ramashankar
May 5, 2020||Hubballi||Dry run ends, liquor outlets in Karnataka register brisk business||A near six-week long dry spell ended on Monday, and tipplers, it appeared did not want to take any chances. At liquor stores in many of the districts across Karnataka, tipplers were standing outside liquor stores from the early hours of the morning. The opening of the liquor outlets, along the brisk business that most of them registered, in the green and orange districts is perhaps the most notable sign of life in the state limping back to normalcy. In Hubballi, police, along with personnel from the excise department had a tough job on their hands managing the surging crowds. Despite repeatedly informing the massive crowd of tipplers to keep a safe distance from one another, an extent of chaos was unavoidable at the retail outlets. Afraid of another dry spell, most customers stocked up on vast quantities of liquor. Many outlets reported that they ran out of stock of bottles of popular brands of whiskey and beer. On average, most customers stocked up on liquor for Rs 4,000 to Rs 15,000 in Hubballi-Dharwad. Deputy commissioner for excise, Dharwad Shivanaguda Nayak said that wearing of masks was made compulsory for all customers, and no alcohol was sold to those who did not wear minimum protective gear Lathicharge in KalaburagiIn Gadag, Koppal, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi and Raichur districts, law enforcement officials were compelled to resort to tough measures in order to control the crowd at liquor stores. 0 In Kalaburagi, police resorted to mild lathicharge at a store near Timmapur Circle to establish order among the customers, who threw caution to the winds when the shop opened around 1pm. Meanwhile, a group of women protested against reopening an MSIL outlet near the railway station in Koppal district. However, sale of liquor continues to remain prohibited in Davanagere, where all 44 wards in the district headquarters have been declared ‘containment zone.’ Stock runs out in BelagaviThe return to normalcy in Belagavi district was marked by disorder and lack of concern for safety measures among many residents. Social distancing went for a toss, with many thoroughfares in Belagavi city reporting gridlock. Worse still, many tipplers took to parking their vehicles in a haphazard manner adding to the congestion on roads. As was the case across North Karnataka, liquor outlets in Belagavi opened to long queues, with most stores reporting sale of more than 50% of their stock. Sachin, an owner of a retail outlet, said that stock of various alcohol brands had run out at his store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dry-run-ends-liquor-outlets-in-state-register-brisk-business/articleshow/75541782.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Health desk at control room for police personnel||NASHIK: City police have set up a help desk for its staff at the control room to receive updates and feedbacks regarding the health of its staff against the backdrop of the rising Covid-19 cases. The help desk comprises two police personnel and a doctor, who will call police personnel and check their health status. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil said, "Health of our police personnel is of prime importance to us. We are coming up with different ideas to ensure that our personnel are healthy and fit amid the Covid-19 outbreak." All in-charge inspectors of police stations and heads of different departments have been instructed to submit a daily report about the health status or medical complaints of personnel working under them. Once the report is submitted, the help desk will call the police staff and inquire about their health issues, if any, and what treatment are they taking. A continuous follow-up will be maintained by the help desk, After the outbreak of Covid-19, city police compiled the medical data of around 3,500 police personnel. The data includes age of policemen and their medical history. Subsequently, the city police also shifted personnel above the age of 55 years to branches where they would have minimum contact with the public. Among other things, police personnel have also been distributed masks, hand-gloves, sanitisers, Vitamin C tablets, homeopathy medicine that will help them prevent getting infected. A police officer said that the duty of the constables is of only eight hours and their weekly offs have not been cancelled. "This gives them sufficient time to rest, which helps in building their immunity," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-desk-at-control-room-for-police-personnel/articleshow/75541716.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mending lives in a school garden||Thiruvananthapuram: Severed from their families, a group of destitute who were picked up from streets and housed at Government School Attakulangara have been mending their broken relationships and brushing up skills in sculpture, carpentry, and gardening. The city corporation, police, and a charitable trust have been working together to shed some light into lives of over 200 destitute who were shifted to the rehabilitation centre at school during the initial days of lockdown. Saravanan, who left his house 10 years ago and occasionally walks up to the gate of his house to talk to his mother was busy fixing the broken tail of a monkey he had moulded in front of the school. Along with six other persons, he has sculpted a theme-based display complete with wild animals displaced from the forest. The figures were completed in the last two months and police supplied them with paint to give finishing touches. Sasi, a carpenter by profession has turned an abandoned pile of broken furniture into desks and benches for the students. The dirt was scraped off, the wooden chunks were affixed and benches and desks were shaped out of a dusty pile of trash. "When they came here initially, they were depressed and would sit alone and there were so many groups. We were able to get them together and we discovered that they had skills which could be put to good use,'' said Sanal Robert, who runs a charitable trust and associates with the rehabilitation of the destitute. In the past two months, four of the inmates have reunited with their families. They had walked away from families for various reasons and ended up on the streets. When the lockdown was announced, the city corporation had taken steps to provide temporary shelter for them. "It was not just about shelter, we are also engaging them in various activities and they are participating in it with so much enthusiasm. Around 40 persons are being employed in different works and we are paying them,'' said mayor K Sreekumar. The people in the camp cleared the shrubs on the playground and the Fort police gifted them cricket bats and ball and they now play regularly on the ground. A vegetable garden has also been readied on the premises which they water every morning and evening. "I feel so much relaxed now. I could use my skills and do something productive,'' says Saravanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mending-lives-in-a-school-garden/articleshow/75541417.cms||Aswin J Kumar
May 5, 2020||Surat||In 3 days, 8,400 Odisha migrants leave for home||Surat: The Western railway (WR) has run about seven non-stop ‘shramik special trains’ carrying about 8,400 Odiya migrants from Surat to Brahmapur and Jagganathpur in Odisha in the last three days.Official sources said these special trains operated from Surat railway station since May 2. The district administration received more than 10,000 online applications from migrant workers seeking permission to travel to various destinations including Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand etc. The migrants have to get themselves registered with aadhaar number, name, address of the destinations they are going to and also undergo medical screening by a team of doctors at the railway station, before boarding the trains. On Monday, three more shramik special trains ran from Surat to Brahmapur and Jagganathpur carrying about 3,600 Odiya migrants. Another two shramik special trains to Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Patna in Bihar went out on Monday night, carrying about 1,200 passengers each.Sources said that the district administration has proposed to run special shramik trains to Uttar Pradesh too, considering the high concentration of migrant population from UP in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-3-days-8400-odisha-migrants-leave-for-home/articleshow/75542385.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Varanasi||Liquor worth Rs 4.73-crore sold in a day||Varanasi: Liquor shops opened after a long gap of 40 days on Monday and witnesses a heavy rush since morning and registered record sale of Rs 4.73 crores in a day. Booze lovers started flocking the stores since morning and the social distancing norms were seriously challenged at most places and policemen deployed in the vicinity had a tough time in ensuring that the buyers stand in queues at safe distance from each other. The Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) stock got sold within few hours while there were few buyers at country liquor outlets and beer shops. The shops opened as per the Sunday night order issued by district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma for opening of liquor shops from 10am to 7pm. Within few minutes of opening of shops, there were long queues and policemen were seen struggling hard to ensure social distancing. There was heavy rush, especially, at IMFL shops across the district by 12 noon. Most tipplers were seen purchasing bottles in bulk, and salesmen at most shops said that the stock of lower and medium price range IMFL had exhausted by 3pm. Those who reached after 4 pm only found premium range liquor and many had to return empty-handed, they added. District excise officer Kaushalendra Singh said, “There were 1,94,929 bottles in 750 ml, 375 ml and 180 ml capacity in stock in over 200 shops. This stock was almost entirely sold. But the sale was not as good from counters of country liquor and beer shops, which had stock of 1,66,581 litres and 3.40 lakh cans.” The licensed shops have been given a week’s time to clear their old stock of 2019-20 financial year and have also been allowed to start procuring fresh stock as per the revised excise policy, said Singh, adding that there is no shortage of stock in the district. As per the records made available by excise department, liquor worth Rs 4.73 crore, including IMFL of Rs 3.89 crore, country liquor of Rs 60 lakh and beer of Rs 23.73 lakh, was sold in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/liquor-worth-rs-4-73-crore-sold-in-a-day/articleshow/75540586.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Curefit lays off 10%, cuts back on ops||Digbijay Mishra | TNN Bengaluru: Fitness-to-food delivery startup Curefit is laying off 800-1,000 people — roughly 10% of their total staff across the group. This would be one of the largest layoffs in the startup world as the business gets hit due to Covid-19. The affected employees include trainers, HR executives and staff training across the fitness business Cultfit. Other major verticals of the startup, Eatfit and Mindfit, have also seen cuts. Started in 2016 by Myntra co-founder Mukesh Bansal and senior Flipkart executive Ankit Nagori, Curefit runs 230 fitness centres across India and has offline food outlets as well as cloud kitchens to serve online orders. Since Covid-19’s spread in India, these businesses have been directly impacted. Curefit plans to focus on its online offerings going forward.What is causing outrage among employees, according to four staff who have been laid off, is they are being asked verbally to resign with an approximately 45-day payment. “They won’t tell us in writing that we have to resign nor the criteria being the same for everyone. I left my studies to join Curefit and now we are being forced to resign overnight. How will I earn my livelihood?,” said Anmol Mahawar, one of the staff of Cultfit. Like her, many others are facing a similar situation and a group of 100-150 such staff are banding together to push the company against taking such a move. They have formed a WhatsApp group, reviewed by TOI.Curefit did not respond to TOI’s emailed query. The four fired staff said they have also started an online campaign against the company on Change.org, protesting what they see as an unfair move by Curefit. The company had closed a new financing round of Rs 832 crore in March from Singapore’s Temasek and other investors. Cultfit trainers told TOI the company recently signed up celebrities for virtual classes and even donated Rs 5 crore to the PM CARES fund. But then, it is forcing their staff to resign and saying if they don’t, the company won’t give them the 45-day severance package. In a post on Twitter, Curefit said it has retained 90% of its trainers on a fixed-plus-variable pay model to “tide over the crisis”. “We have downsized our employee base across markets where we have shut operations and have initiated pay cuts across levels,” it said. The founders have taken a 100% pay cut, while the same for management is 50% and the rest of the staff, based on seniority, would see pay cuts of 20-30%. It added it has created a Rs 2-crore emergency fund for affected employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/curefit-lays-off-10-cuts-back-on-ops/articleshow/75543294.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 5, 2020||Surat||Three booked for entering Dang from Maharashtra||Surat: At least three persons were booked for entering Dang district from Maharashtra violating lockdown rules at Saputara police station on Monday. A complaint was lodged against Ulashya Pavar, 50, and his wife Seeta Pavar, 45, residents of Vanar village of Ahwa taluka of Dang district. The second case relates to Suraj Khairad, 43, a resident of Baripada village of Vaghai taluka. He was also booked at Saputara police station for entering Dang via forest route in violation of the rules. “When we were patrolling near Vanar village we found two persons walking on road. They told us that they had gone to Maharashtra’s Vadner village to work as agricultural labourers and were now returning to their village,” police said. The couple had entered Dang district from Maharashtra’s Kanchaghat. Khairad had also gone to work as agricultural labourer in the neighbouring state. Khairad said there was no work there after lockdown and hence he was forced to return home, police said. Over 25 FIRs have been filed in Dang against people who entered the district from Maharashtra in the past few weeks. So far Dang district has reported three Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-booked-for-entering-dang-from-maharashtra/articleshow/75542274.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||Over 200 electricity poles damaged in rain in Mysuru||Mysuru: Heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds lashed the city on Sunday night uprooting several trees and damaging electricity poles, leading to disruption of power supply in many places. Fortunately, there are no casualities. The rain and wind started at around 11 pm on Sunday. Just a few minutes later, the power got disconnected and the entire city plunged into darkness. Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) said the rain had damaged nearly 200 electric poles after huge tree branches fell on electricity cables. A senior CESC officer said 50% of the damaged poles have been replaced by new ones. “In some areas where work is still being done, power will be restored by Tuesday afternoon,” he said. Meanwhile, Mysuru City Corporation’s Abhaya teams are clearing the uprooted trees and branches from the road. Major damages to trees were reported in Hunsur Road near Kalamandira, Kuvempunagar Double Road, New Khantaraja Urs Road, Javaregowda Park and near Saraswathi Theatre at Saraswathipuram. Heavy rain was also reported in Nanjangud, HD Kote, Hunsur and T Narasipura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/over-200-electricity-poles-damaged-in-rain-in-mysuru/articleshow/75542223.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||Address petition to repatriate seamen: SC to govt||Panaji: In a petition filed seeking the repatriation of Goan seafearers back to India, the Supreme Court of India has directed the central government to examine the issue and take appropriate steps. “Having heard learned counsel for the petitioner as also learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondent- Union of India, we direct the respondent to examine the issues raised by the petitioner in the instant petition and take appropriate steps,” the court stated. The petition filed by social activist from Nuvem, Valencio Rodrigues, states that the government has not taken necessary measures to get seafarers released from ships stranded at various ports and added that this amounts to violation of fundamental rights as guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. This has resulted in the denial of the concept of ‘parens patriae’ which recognizes the state as a protector of its citizens as a parent, particularly when the citizens are not in a position to protect themselves. Rodrigues filed the petition stating that there is threat to the life and health of seafarers due to Covid-19 and is seeking directions to the government to release those held up at various ports in India and abroad. He annexed a list of more than 11,000 seafarers, majority of which are Goans, stranded on more than 70 ships at various ports around the world, to his petition. He added that while the Indian government facilitated the return of 1142 Indians (787 pilgrims, 219 students and 136 others), it has taken no steps to bring back seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/address-petition-to-repatriate-seamen-sc-to-govt/articleshow/75544327.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Six-member expert panel keen on tracking ‘Patient Zero’ of Padil cluster case||Mangaluru: An expert committee comprising six members among whom one is a consultant with the World Health Organisation (WHO) is delving into the ‘cluster case’ at First Neuro Hospital at Padil on the outskirts of Mangaluru. The facility was declared an isolation centre, currently under supervision, with 210 people at the hospital having been quarantined. This includes 19 patients and 21 attendants. The expert committee comprises an expert in infectious diseases, a member from the national quality assurance team and a microbiologist in addition to the Dakshina Kannada district health officer (DHO) Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district surgeon Dr Sadashiva and the WHO consultant. “The reports of the swab tests for the 12th day of the facility’s isolation we will get on Wednesday or Thursday. These reports, we expect, will provide us with vital clues to ascertaining the source of the cluster case,” Dr Bairy told TOI. The cluster case at the Padil hospital accounts for as many as nine positive Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, the last of which was reported on April 26. Dr Bairy, however, said that residents from Udupi, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts had been receiving treatment at the hospital for neurological disorders, and had been discharged prior to the Covid-19 outbreak in Dakshina Kannada. “We have intimated the health officers of of the respective districts of the patients to monitor the health of these patients, and to attend to them in the event they test positive,” Dr Bairy added. The Padil hospital also housed patients from Kerala, who have since been discharged. “We have started the reverse tracing process to reach ‘Patient Zero’. We are also tracing how the resident of Kasaba in Bantwal taluk, the first Covid-19 patient in the district, contracted the infection. Her mother-in-law passed away four days after she died,” Dr Bairy said. All members of the expert committee will visit the First Neuro Hospital in Padil on May 8 or May 9 to check the institution’s compliance with quarantine norms. The DHO said that the hospital would be allowed to resume operations only after it was completely sanitised. “One of the patients at the Padil hospital suffering from TB meningitis, who contracted Covid-19, is however not among those on the road to recovery. Recovering TB meningitis is tough even without the novel coronavirus,” said Dr Bairy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/six-member-expert-panel-keen-on-tracking-patient-zero-of-padil-cluster-case/articleshow/75540695.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 5, 2020||Patna||40 held, over 1,000 vehicles seized on Day 1 of lockdown 3.0||PATNA: On the first day of the stage three of nationwide lockdown, 40 people were arrested and 1,045 vehicles impounded for violating the norms on Monday. People came out in large numbers on the streets early in the morning in Vaishali, while some gathered in front of barber shops, others were seen waiting for internet kiosks to open. They were under the impression that their areas were under the ‘green zones’ as per an earlier notification by the Centre. Their illusion broke soon as lathi wielding cops arrived to chase them. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said, “There is no relaxation as the entire state has been divided into two zones—red zone and orange zone. There is no green zone at all. Instructions have been issued to all SPs to follow the lockdown norms strictly.” The scene at Muzaffarpur was no different. People spotted moving on roads were chased and motorists forced to pay penalty for violating lockdown norms. Senior cops were seen monitoring the situation. Arnab Choudhary, a resident of Mithanpura in Muzaffarpur district, said, “Cops are cruel. They behave as if we are hardcore criminals. They don’t discriminate between bonafides and fake ones. Senior police officers must look into it.” Sharing details of the police action against lockdown violators, additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Altogether 40 people were arrested and 1,045 vehicles impounded in the state for violating lockdown norms on Monday.” In addition, 20 FIRs were lodged and Rs.25.66 lakh realised as penalty from vehicle owners, he said. Kumar, who is also official spokesperson of the state police, reiterated that lockdown curbs will be followed more effectively. Another senior IAS officer said that the state government has converted the green zone into orange zone to contain the spread of Covid19 pandemic. “The police have been ordered to maintain law and order and ensure that social distancing is duly followed.” He further said, “As per the latest order issued by the state government, people won’t be able to travel to different cities without necessary passes. Security and testing will be tighter at the check points on the borders.” The officer on condition of anonymity said stern action would be taken if people entered the state without passes. However, some leniency will be given in orange zones. “Shops will remain open till 7 pm. Saloons have been given permission to reassume operation. Buses won’t run as yet. Other restrictions are in line with those being followed across the country,” he revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-held-over-1k-vehicles-seized-on-day-1-of-lockdown-3-0/articleshow/75540909.cms||Ramashankar
May 5, 2020||Patna||Prohibition puts more strain on state’s economy in crisis||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown has brought countrywide financial crisis with Bihar being no exception. The extension of lockdown caused continuance of the shortfall in the goods and service tax (GST) collections from the 2019-20 fiscal. The Centre has also been delaying the payment compensation to the states for their GST losses. Recently, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi sought permission from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to withdraw money to the tune of over Rs7,000 crore from the government’s ‘sinking fund’ to fill the gap in the state’s income. The grants-in-aid and assistance received from the Centre and the state’s own tax earnings, along with non-tax revenue collections, constitute its income. In this background, a feeling has started gaining ground in the state that the Nitish Kumar government would have found some elbow room to tide over the stark financial crisis facing it today, if it had not imposed total prohibition and accompanying ban on liquor four years ago, observers said. In fact, the budgeted estimate of the earnings from the excise department for the 2015-16 fiscal had been put at Rs4001 crore, including Rs3,996 crore the government would have earned from the sale of spirits (Rs2,159 crore) and Rs1,837 crore from the sale of India made foreign liquor (IMFL). The two alone accounted for 96% of the total excise earnings in the state. To get a sense of the rising volume of revenue income coming to the state from the sale of spirits and IMFL, the increase in the government’s earning was to the tune of Rs1,479 crore in 2010-11 and Rs2,356 crore in 2012-13, followed by Rs3,077 crore in 2013-14 and Rs3,102 crore in 2014-15. Given the backdrop, Bihar has been witnessing muffled discussions centred around the dip in its revenue earning. The state government had sought a permission from the Centre to raise the cap on market borrowings of money from the mandatory 3.5% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) under the fiscal responsibility and budget management (FRBM) Act to 4%. However, the Centre did not grant the permission, SuMo had earlier said. Observers pointed out that in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, their respective chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal and Yogi Adityanath on Monday allowed the opening of standalone liquor shops to make up for the revenue loss incurred on account of the last 42 days of the lockdown, which might continue beyond May 17 with some modifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prohibition-puts-more-strain-on-states-economy-in-crisis/articleshow/75540848.cms||Abhay Singh
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||Vehicles, people back on streets in South Karnataka, Malnad as authorities ease restrictions||Mysuru: With the government partially lifting restrictions and allowing public movement after six weeks of lockdown, the southern Karnataka and Malnad regions on Monday opened for non-essential services too. There was heavy rush of vehicles on district borders as those stranded outside their towns started returning during the day. The police, meanwhile, facilitated people with online facility to get permission to move between the districts while inter-state movement is expected to commence from Tuesday. Inspector general of police, southern range, Vipul Kumar told TOI that the situation is peaceful even with movement of public and sale of liquor in five districts – Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu. In a tweet, the IG however stated that movement of non-essential activities remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am and he has asked those above 65 years, below 10 years, pregnant women and those with adverse medical history to remain indoors. Mysuru, though in red zone, witnessed heavy movement of vehicles at the district borders on Monday. At Kalasthwadi check-post on Mysuru-Bengaluru highway, police checked each and every vehicle entering and leaving the district. Mysuru district, which reported 90 covid positive cases, stands second in the state on the number of such cases. However, 69 of them have been cured, bringing down active cases to 11 as on Monday. Mandya, categorized as orange zone, too witnessed restricted movement within the district. It has reported a total of 28 positive cases, and so far seven have been discharged. The situation in Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu, which are under green category, seem to have returned to normal with authorities allowing shops to open and also intra-district movement of government-operated buses in Chamarajanagar and Shivamogga. Kodagu reported one positive case and the individual was cured and discharged. Till now, other four districts haven’t reported any covid case. Meanwhile, arrangements are being made to receive and sent stranded migrant workers and the process is underway. Inset KSRTC resumes operations in Shivamogga Shivamogga: Inter-district bus services resumed on Monday in Shivamogga and people who were stuck in Bengaluru and other cities started returning to their native places. However, only 25 passengers are allowed in each bus. KSRTC buses will be plying from district centre to taluks on demand from Tuesday. KSRTC divisional officer Naveen said they had started operations within the district from Monday. “We provide all facilities and ensure social distance. Buses will operate between 7 am and 10 am and from 4 pm and 7 pm from Tuesday. In Hassan, non-essential shops are allowed to open on alternate days starting from Tuesday. Liquor, textiles, jewellery shops were given permission to open on Monday. State transport buses allow only 27 passengers in each bus and autos have also started operating from Monday morning. (With inputs from Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vehicles-people-back-on-streets-in-south-karnataka-malnad-as-authorities-ease-restrictions/articleshow/75541506.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 5, 2020||Business||Sensex dives 2,002 points on PMI’s historic low, global cues||Mumbai: A global selloff due to the coronavirus spread, fresh US-China trade tensions, sharp falls in earnings of several top Indian corporates and a historic drop in Indian manufacturing activities combined to pull the sensex down by 6% on Monday. The crash of 2,002 points to 31,715 by close of Monday’s trade was the index’s fourth biggest single-session loss ever. The news about extension of the countrywide lockdown, which is going to further affect economic activity, also weighed on investor sentiment, market players said. On the NSE, the Nifty closed at 9,294, down 567 points or 5.7% on the day. The day’s slide also left investors poorer by Rs 5.8 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 122.6 lakh crore. End of the session data showed that both domestic and foreign institutions were sellers with FPIs recording a net outflow of Rs 1,374 crore, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 1,662 crore. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, Monday’s crash in the Indian bourses could be attributed to the weakness in global markets over the last two trading sessions, poor macro data locally, the latest US-China trade spat and poor corporate earnings. The slide in the global markets could also be because of the spat between top US and Chinese officials “over the origin of the coronavirus”. This fuelled fears of a new trade war, Jasani wrote in a note. In addition, factory data from around the world points to tough times ahead for the global economy, which also pushed investors to be cautious. Financials and IT stocks were hammered the most with 28 of the 30 sensex constituents closing in the red, BSE data showed. HDFC Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and Infosys together contributed to the sensex’s fall, while gains in Bharti Airtel cushioned it, although marginally. The selloff in stocks also had a negative impact on the forex market with the rupee closing 62 paise weaker at 75.72 to the dollar, market players said.Technically, continuous closes below the 9,400 level would be a sign of weakness for the Nifty, chartists said. And a hold below 9,400 zones (for Nifty) could see a correction towards 9,000, and then 8,800 zones in the coming days. On the upside, immediate resistance is now placed at 9,600 and then around 9,889 levels, a technical note from Motilal Oswal Financial Services said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-2002-points-on-pmis-historic-low-global-cues/articleshow/75543316.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Peerless Hospital shuts for a week after health workers test positive for Covid-19||KOLKATA: Peerless Hospital will shut down for at least a week from Tuesday after several of its physicians, nursing staff and health professionals tested positive for Covid-19. Sanitization has started at the hospital, which plans to resume operations after setting up two Covid wards that can accommodate at least 30 patients. At present, the hospital has a 20-bed Covid unit. A statement issued by Peerless MD Sujit Kar Purkayastha on Tuesday cited “a great deal of panic amongst patients, health professionals, as well as the surrounding community, which has been reflected by the gross absenteeism, dissatisfaction and uncertainty in them” as the reason behind the shutdown. However, it added the hospital will continue to run its maternity, dialysis, laboratory, radiology and chemotherapy services. So far, 11 doctors and nurses from Peerless have tested positive. As many as 70 nursing staffers and three doctors are now quarantined. Medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra reiterated that it had become difficult to continue services in such an “environment of fear”. “With so many healthcare workers testing positive and scores being quarantined, it has become difficult to operate without involving a high degree of risk to our patients. We will sanitize our hospital in stages and the process has started on Monday,” he said. He added that the hospital needed more Covid beds to check transmission. “We will probably have two separate units with 30 beds in all. We will resume services soon, but will take no chances with the safety norms. So, it may take longer,” Mitra added. The process to add the wards has begun. Instruments are being brought and facilities, like a new central AC system and negative pressure for the new wards, are being put in place. Hospital officials, however, said it may take longer than usual for the wards to be set up since transportation of equipment has been delayed due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/peerless-shuts-for-a-week-after-health-workers-test-ve/articleshow/75542355.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Tipplers in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi keep order while stocking up on booze||The importance given to safety, and an abiding adherence to social distancing set the demeanour of tipplers in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in stark relief against the scenes of chaos that the lifting of the restrictions on sale of liquor was greeted with in other parts of the state. Most customers showed no signs of impatience, and waited their turn to enter the store. Meanwhile, at high-end liquor stores in Mangaluru and Udupi, there was no rush to enter the store despite the crowd. In Mangaluru, the queue in front of a liquor store was nearly 500m long. However, resumption of sale of liquor was not entirely without incident in Mangaluru, with a drunkard creating ruckus near Yeyyadi, and forcing cops to detain him. Large queues and crowds were common across Udupi district as well. Bowing to demand from customers, many liquor outlets opened their shops before 9am, and similarly, some of them were forced to down shutters early owing to inability to handle the crowd. Initially there was confusion on the amount of liquor that could be sold to each customer, but excise department capped it at three bottles of hard liquor and a case of beer per head. Interestingly, there was little demand for beer in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts. Meanwhile, gridlock was reported at several places in Mangaluru city as several businesses resumed operations after a six-week hiatus. Udupi residents were none too pleased with the decision of the district administration to ease restrictions only between 7am and 1pm, despite the coastal district falling under the ‘Green Zone’, while the lockdown was relaxed from 7am to 7pm in Dakshina Kannada, which has been classified as ‘Orange Zone’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tipplers-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-keep-order-while-stocking-up-on-booze/articleshow/75541638.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Schools coerce parents to pay fees despite lockdown||MANGALURU: Smitha (name changed) who had been paying the school fee of her children for the entire academic year in one go says she is being pressurised by the school authorities to make payment despite the lockdown. “I have been sincere in fee payment all these years and have never availed the option to pay in tranches. When the school authorities first requested us to pay the fee, I expressed my inability due to lockdown and financial crunch. I said the same when they called me a second time, but they threatened me with dire consequences if fee was not paid at the earliest,” said a worried Smitha, who runs an eatery. Smitha is not alone. While parents await school fee waivers during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 situation in the country, several schools in the city are coercing them to make the payment immediately. Meanwhile, some schools which usually collect fee by April end have not yet asked parents to pay. “I usually pay school fee by April every year. However, this year the school has not communicated about the payment and it will be huge problem if they ask us to do it right now,” said another parent. “Schools and other education institutions should be considerate in these difficult times. Government has directed the institutions to refrain from hiking the fee this year due and I hope they adhere to it,” the parent added. Speaking to TOI, Dakshina Kannada deputy director of public instruction Mallesh said they haven’t received any complaint regarding the issue. “However, we have forwarded a missive from commissioner office on collection and revision of school fee to all block education officers in the district,” he added. Asked about SSLC examinations, Mallesh said the exams will not be cancelled. “Government will announce dates once there is normalcy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/schools-coerce-parents-to-pay-fees-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75542284.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 5, 2020||Patna||Serving society is our priority: SDRF jawan||PATNA: For Malik Kumar (25), a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) jawan, wearing PPE kits for six hours per day has become a routine job as he does sanitisation work in the containment zones of Begusarai district to prevent spread of coronavirus. Kumar, a resident of Bihta in Patna, sanitises the hotspot areas, evacuate Covid-19 patients and suspected cases and spread awareness among the masses about the pandemic. He has not returned home after the enforcement of lockdown. Kumar said he has been staying in a camp along with other colleagues since March 25. “Around 46 SDRF personnel live in this camp at Begusarai, including six officers and two cooks. Our job is to make people aware about Covid-19 and curb its transmission. We urge people to maintain social distancing, wear face masks and wash hands regularly with soap and sanitiser,” Kumar added. Begusarai district, where 11 Covid-19 positive cases have so far been detected, falls in the orange category. Five of the 11 patients have recovered from the disease. “Two localities in Begusarai – Mansurchak and Machuara – were earlier sealed. These localities have been sanitised now. Some positive cases were recently found in Marachi locality. The area has been sealed by the district administration and sanitisation work is on,” Kumar said. He said PPE kits like gloves, boots, eyewear, gown, mask and head gear have been provided to them as a precautionary measure. “After duty hours, we dispose of the PPE kits scientifically,” Kumar said. “My wife and two kids (son and daughter) are at home in Bihta. I talk to them in the evening after work,” he said, adding they maintain social distance and wear home-made mask while at work. “It is important that we keep ourselves safe to serve the society. For me, serving people comes first,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/serving-society-is-our-priority-sdrf-jawan/articleshow/75540983.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Denied medical help, baby dies in womb||PATNA: Gulshan Khatoon (22), lost her first child after she was allegedly denied institutional delivery in two government hospitals of Buxar district. By the time she was provided medical aid in a private hospital, the baby died in her womb. A resident of Kazipur village in Simri block of Buxar district, Gulshan was first taken to Simri primary health centre on April 29 after she experienced labour pain. She had especially come to her parent’s house for the birth of her first child some six months back from Bhagalpur. With male members of the family being stuck in various places outside the state because of the lockdown, she was accompanied by her mother and aunt to the PHC. Family members said they reached Simri PHC around 3am, but the nurse on duty did not even touch her for the fear of being infected with corona. Gulshan’s aunt Saliman Khatoon, who had accompanied her to the PHC said, “As soon as the nurse came know our religion, she nurse asked us to stay away from her saying we will spread corona. We kept pleading, but she did not attend to our patient. After a fervent plea, she referred us to Buxar sadar hospital.” After waiting for two hours at the PHC for ambulance, Gulshan was taken to sadar hospital some 30 km away in a private vehicle by paying Rs 2,000. “After we reached the sadar hospital, a doctor asked us to first get some tests done, which included ultrasonography. As there was no facility of ultrasound at the sadar hospital, we were asked to get it done at a private centre. We were even made to run from one counter to another. Buxar was a new place for us and when we could not get the ultrasound facility, the doctor denied to take my daughter’s case, ” said the grieving mother. Gulshan was then taken to a private hospital in Kerat, some 30 km from Buxar. However, due to the delay, she delivered a stillborn baby. “The child weighed 2.5kg and was beautiful. After losing her child, Gulshan has slipped into depression. Her husband is stranded in Hyderabad,” Saliman said. Buxar civil surgeon Dr Usha Kiran Verma said a three-member team has been formed to probe into this matter. “I got a call from Buxar DM to investigate the matter. We have formed a committee which will go to Simri PHC on Tuesday. We will also get in touch with the family and talk to them,” said Dr Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/denied-medical-help-baby-dies-in-womb/articleshow/75540884.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 5, 2020||Patna||Relief personnel working hard to contain Covid-19||PATNA: From providing relief material to decontaminating areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported as well as creating awareness among people, hundreds of personnel from NDRF, SDRF and NCC cadets are working round-the-clock to help people in containment areas and other hotspots in the state. NDRF Commandant Vijay Sinha said, “NDRF rescue teams have been deployed across the state, including in Gaya, Siwan, Nalanda, Sasaram and Munger. They are doing sanitization using high pressure machines in all containment areas. They have been educating and creating awareness among people since the beginning.” He added that teams have also been deployed in several areas, including in Munger and Begusarai, for ferrying suspected coronavirus cases to the hospitals. Ajit Kumar Singh, assistant commandant of 9th Battalion NDRF, who has been working at the Bihar state emergency operation centre, said, “Two teams each with NDRF personnel have been positioned in the nine districts to carry out rescue and relief operations. Besides, we have been training NCC cadets, police personnel and Quick Medical Response Team (QMRT) who are working round-the-clock for welfare of society,” Singh said. SDRF teams have been deployed in at least 14 districts. Of these, three cities and districts, including Patna, Ara and Begusarai, have been categorised as red zone and the remaining like Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Purnia and Bhagalpur among others have been categorised as orange zone. SDRF’s Krishna Kumar Jha said the teams were trained in February in order to carry out operations related to Covid-19. “Be it decontaminating the Covid-19 affected areas, handling patients or preparing chemical solution for sanitization, SDRF teams have been doing all possible operations in order to provide help to people,” he added. SDRF inspector Deepak Jha, who has been deployed at a containment zone in Begusarai, said, “Even after wearing PPE gear, I make sure I don’t come in contact while sanitizing the red zone areas. Covid-19 is an unprecedented pandemic for the country and people who are working for others need to look after their safety too,” he said. Several NCC cadets have been providing food to people and stray animals in the containment areas. Monu Ranjan, a former NCC cadet, said, “The cadets have been providing help to homeless people and stray animals in containment areas in the city, including Khajpura in Patna.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/relief-personnel-working-hard-to-contain-covid-19/articleshow/75540957.cms||Archi Rani
May 5, 2020||Surat||Migrants up the heat in Surat again||SURAT: Surat’s migrant-dominated areas were on the boil once again after thousands of labourers, enraged over not being allowed to return to their natives, clashed with the police on Monday.Large groups of migrants that included women too hit the roads in Vareli, a textile manufacturing cluster adjoining Surat, and resorted to heavy stone pelting at the police and vandalizing vehicles. Cops lobbed at least 40 tear gas shells and resorted to lathicharge as the mob was unrelenting. Teams of policemen were seen chasing the migrants into interior lanes and caning people. Later, around 200 people were arrested for rioting. The migrants, many of whom of whom were already vexed after being sent back from Gujarat borders since Friday night, started gathering on the roads outside the labour colonies around 11:30pm. Police rushed there and asked the to return homes. However, migrants pressed with their demand to return to their natives and the situation soon turned tense. Refusing to go back, the workers resorted to stone pelting on police team. "At least 3,000 workers were involved in the rioting and few of them even hurled acid bottles on cops," said Rajkumar Pandian, inspector general of police, Surat range Some of them damaged and torched a few motorcycles, an auto rickshaw as well as a private car of a policeman. "We are trying to identify people involved in instigating the workers," Pandian added. Vareli is an industrial cluster having textile and dyeing and printing units, which employ close to two lakh migrants, majority from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar. Later in the noon, a huge crowd of migrants even gathered at Palanpur Patiya also in the city limit area. However, there was no violence and went back to their homes after being convinced by police. After the lockdown was imposed on March 23, migrants in Surat have resorted to angry protests several times. On March 29, they had pelted stones at police in Pandesara area with a demand to return to their natives. Later on April 10, a crowd of migrants blocked the national highway by burning logs of wood. Sources in police informed that the migrants were enraged after thousands, who had started for their natives in private buses and cargo vehicles with valid permissions, were forced to return to Surat from state borders as far as 500 km. In Valsad district too, hundreds of labourers blocked the roads blocked the highway traffic near Vapi GIDC. But police cleared the road and the workers relented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tears-vs-teargas-migrants-up-the-heat-in-surat-again/articleshow/75542111.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Dip in active cases inspires hopes of Mysuru entering ‘Green Zone’||MYSURU: After a worrisome surge in the number of cases in the district in the last week of March and the early days of April, Mysuru has managed to put a lid on the spread of Covid-19. What is more, the number of active cases in Mysuru has been on a downward slide, and on Monday, two more patients were discharged from the designated Covid-19 hospital in Mysuru, pushing the number down to 11. Of the 90 individuals who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mysuru district, 79 have recovered and been discharged – the second highest in Karnataka. Health department officials in Mysuru said that more patients were slated for discharge on Tuesday, which is likely to bring the number of active cases down to single digit. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar appreciated the efforts taken by the Mysuru district administration for its success in curbing the outbreak. “We must compliment the Mysuru district administration for the manner in which the authorities have handled the crisis. They were worried a few days ago but they are now confident of being classified as a ‘Green Zone’ district,” the minister said. The Nanjangud ‘cluster case’ accounted for 74 of the 90 cases in Mysuru district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dip-in-active-cases-inspires-hopes-of-mysuru-entering-green-zone/articleshow/75541554.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 5, 2020||Surat||We feel humiliated, won’t return to Surat, say migrants||SURAT: Radhey Shyam Tripathi, a textile worker from Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, has made up his mind not to return to Surat again. The bus carrying Tripathi and 56 fellow workers was recently sent back to Surat from Dahod check-post by police. Tripathi does not want to lose money again to a private bus operator and has decided to wait for a special train. Read the entire story on TOI+'I paid for my journey back home'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/up-bihar-migrants-vow-not-to-return-to-humiliation/articleshow/75542180.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Alcohol stocks up as shops reopen||Mumbai: The government’s decision to allow liquor shops to open in most districts of the country led to hectic buying of shares of alcohol companies that make and sell alcohol on Monday. Market players believe since alcohol sales contribute a large share to the exchequer of state governments, it was the need for money that prompted the government to allow sale of liquor. Among the leading alcohol stocks, United Spirits rallied 4.4% but closed with marginal gains while United Breweries closed 3.4% higher. The biggest gainer was Associated Alcohols & Breweries that closed 17% higher. The company markets a large number of leading foreign and Indian brands. The gains in alcohol stocks came on a day the sensex crashed 6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/alcohol-stocks-up-as-shops-reopen/articleshow/75543256.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||RBI takes stock of MFs’ liquidity situation||Mumbai: In the first meeting with top executives from the mutual fund industry since the launch of RBI’s Rs 50,000-crore special funding window, governor Shaktikanta Das took stock of the effectiveness of the MF industry’s liquidity situation. He also assured to act quickly to smoothen the hurdles the industry faces, provided fund houses are prompt in reaching out to the central bank. The governor and several top central bankers discussed about the impact of measures taken by the RBI with regard to the provision of liquidity, reviewed the functioning of bond markets and spoke about steps to be taken for the future, an RBI release said. According to Nilesh Shah, chairman, Amfi, the trade body’s top officials discussed with the RBI the evolving situation in the mutual fund space and the bond market. Amfi also assured the central bankers that it was committed to protect investors’ interest and participate in the normal functioning of the market. Fund industry executives also said the central bank’s assurance to the investing community about its support was a huge confidence booster for investors as well as the fund houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-takes-stock-of-mfs-liquidity-situation/articleshow/75543082.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Surat||SMC to issue Covid-free identity cards to vegetable vendors||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started screening of vegetable vendors and shop owners for Covid-19 infection. If the vendors and owners of provision stores test negative for coronavirus, they will be issued identity cards declaring them disease-free. “We are screening vegetable vendors, provision store owners and others who come in contact with large number of people on a daily basis. If these people engaged in essential services test negative for Covid-19, we will issue them identity cards. Thus, people would not have to worry about them but still need to maintain social distancing to ensure that they don’t get infected,’’ municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. Meanwhile, Surat city witnessed highest single day discharge of 65 Covid-19 positive patients upon their recovery from New Civil Hospital (NCH) and Covid care centre at Samras on Monday. Health officials said these patients were discharged after their two consecutive test results came negative for the virus. Out of the 65 discharged patients, 30 were in NCH, two in Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital and 33 at Covid care centre. So far, 261 patients have been discharged after they had fully recovered from the disease in the city. However, death toll due to Covid-19 reached 31 in the city. A 55-year-old woman of Limbayat died on Sunday night. Raziabibi Pathan was suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. She was admitted to NCH on Sunday morning where she was detected with the infection. Meanwhile, the city reported 17 fresh positive cases from different areas, taking the number of positive cases to 674. City’s Limbayat zone has the highest number at 261 followed by Varachha zone with 116. “We have now entered the lockdown’s third phase from Monday. People believe some relaxations have been given. I want to make it clear no relaxations have been granted and that everyone will have to follow the lockdown rules strictly,’’ Pani said. He asked residents in containment areas to cooperate with health teams visiting their houses for survey. “I have come to know that some residents are asking why the health teams are coming again and again to their houses. But it is good for you and we want to find out every suspected case and get the patient treated early,’’ Pani said. He informed that branches of banks will remain closed in containment areas in the city. Seven patients discharged from Tapi, Surat, Navsari districts Surat: Seven Covid-19 positive patients were discharged on Monday from Tapi, Surat and Navsari districts after their recovery and repeat samples tested negative for the virus. No fresh cases were reported from Bharuch, Navsari, Tapi, Valsad and Dang districts on Monday. However, three fresh cases were reported from Surat, which took the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district to 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-issue-covid-free-identity-cards-to-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75542215.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||1.2k foreigners don’t want to leave Goa, says FRRO||Panaji: The Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO), Goa, said on Monday that 1,200 foreigners currently in Goa do not wish to leave the state since they have business, are working, or are married here. FRRO SP Bosco George told TOI that around 6,000 foreign nationals from various countries have been evacuated so far. “We have 1,200 who don’t want to leave,” he said, adding that they’re mostly from European countries like Germany, France and the UK. George said that 6,117 foreigners were repatriated from March 24 to April 26. Of these, 2,339 were Britishers, 1,173 Russians, 692 Germans, 240 French and 156 from Italy and other countries. A senior police official said that when the evacuation process was on, police were directed not to stop foreigners travelling towards the Goa International Airport in Dabolim. Foreigners have been stuck in Goa since March 22, when PM Narendra Modi announced the ‘janata curfew’. Later, CM Pramod Sawant extended it by three days, and on March 24, Modi announced a national lockdown till April 14. The FRRO had requested foreigners stuck in Goa during the coronavirus outbreak to apply for visa application and other related services online. They were advised against visiting the FRRO in Panaji. As per the advisory issued by the Union ministry of home affairs with regard to travel and visa restrictions in view of Covid-19, foreign nationals who are presently in Goa must apply for visa extensions and allied services on http://boi.gov.in only. Official data revealed that many citizens from coronavirus-hit nations such as China, Italy, France and Spain were staying in Goa. As many as 6,543 C-forms registered at the FRRO pertain to citizens of these countries. C-forms are filed by guesthouse owners or hotel managements who provide accommodation to foreigners, and contain detailed information about each foreign guest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-2k-foreigners-dont-want-to-leave-goa-says-frro/articleshow/75544333.cms||Murari Shetye
May 5, 2020||Delhi||41 days on, buzz is back in government offices, Delhi CM leads from front||NEW DELHI: Forty-one days into the lockdown, Delhi Secretariat witnessed a spurt of activity on Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and all other ministers, who were earlier coming as per requirement, arrived to attend a cabinet meeting in the morning. Kejriwal left the secretariat only in the evening after holding multiple meetings. The number of officials coming to the secretariat had also gone down drastically since the Covid-19 lockdown was announced on March 25 as only those on essential duties were asked to report. On Monday, the third floor, where the chief minister sits, was abuzz again with officials and guards back on duty as per the new guidelines. All officers at the level of deputy secretary and above will now work from office. Other government offices also opened after Delhi government agreed to several lockdown relaxations recently suggested by the Union home ministry. The offices dealing in essential services like food and civil supplies and power, will function with 100% staff strength while those dealing in non-essential services like urban development can call 33% of them on rotation. All sub-registrar offices in different districts have resumed services with full strength. “In east Delhi, it is located in the office of the district magistrate. As the DM’s office is engaged in essential services, all staff have been coming to work throughout the lockdown period. On Monday, too, they reported to work,” said a senior official. Nobody, however, turned up for any registry-related matter, the official added. The sub-registrars’ offices in other districts, too, had a similar experience. The transport offices also opened though only a few people turned up for any related work. “For services like licence renewal, people need to take an online appointment before coming to the local transport office,” said an official. Most people are not yet aware about the opening of offices, he added. Delhi government’s 80 departments function from two locations — Delhi Secretariat and Old Secretariat in Civil Lines — in association with scores of local offices. With no public transport on the road, commuting to offices became a big hassle for most employees who come from different parts of the city and even from the rest of the national capital region, said an official. With Uttar Pradesh and Haryana imposing strict border regulations, many officials couldn’t even enter Delhi, he added. While the CM and his ministers, the chief secretary and several top bureaucrats sit at the new Secretariat, the top officers of revenue, education and social welfare, among others, have offices at Old Secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/41-days-on-buzz-is-back-in-govt-offices-cm-leads-from-front/articleshow/75543748.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 5, 2020||Varanasi||BHU comes up with ‘Mahamana Declarations’ to check Covid-19||Varanasi: To strenghten its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Banaras Hindu University has come up with ‘Mahamana Declarations.’ A nine-member working group has also been constituted to oversee the implementation of the nine-point ‘Mahamana Declarations’ within the next 12 months. “The Mahamana Declarations are the outputs from the recently held webinar on indigenous alternative medicine systems in India like ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) in fight against Corona virus globally,” said chairman of the committee and dean of the faculty of ayurveda Prof Yamini Bhushan Tripathi. The six-day webinar was held from April 27 to May 2 by faculty of Ayurveda, IMS BHU, in association with the Patient Safety and Access Initiative of India Foundation (PSAIIF), Quality Council of India (QCI) and Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). Other members of the panel include Dr Meenakshi Datta Ghosh, IAS Retd former secretary to the govt of India, Dr KK Aggarwal, former President IMA, headquarters, New Delhi, Prof Dr Tanuja Nesari, director All India Institute of AYUSH, New Delhi, Prafull D Sheth, former vice-president FIP, board member PSAIIF Vadodara Gujarat, Arvind Varchaswi MD Sri Sri Tattva, Bengaluru, Karnataka, Prof R N Acharya dean Gujarat Ayurveda University, Pantnagar, Gujarat, Prof Bejon Kumar Misra, adviser/consultant IMS, BHU and Prof Dr K N Dwivedi HoD Dravyaguna IMS BHU. Prof Tripathi said that a special attention is needed on accessibility of indigenous alternative medicine systems AYUSH to lessen morbidity and mortality across the world. The declarations also took note of policy issues or legal instruments, such as the action plan for promotion and communication strategy for global partnership to provide credible options other than modern medicine. According to Tripathi, the main points of the declarations include basic issues like at least 5% of the GDP should be invested into healthcare and substantial amountin preventive care by linking all the primary healthcare centres with AYUSH. The ministry of health & family welfare and ministry of Ayush (MoA) should jointly examine, revise and update specifications of plant materials, finished products and packaging materials regularly. . Clinical trials and experimental studies of ayuvedic medicines, procedures and recommendations should be speeded up . All AYUSH practitioners, nurses other paramedics should sharpen their clinical skills, and treatment guidelines. “We should involve all Ayush doctors, nurses and paramedics working under all situations of health care. We also need to develop Ayurvedic/AYUSH protocol for treatment ,” he said. Besides, all existing helplines for farmers and citizens should be integrated with the National Medicinal Plant Board (NMPB) Govt. of India to help cultivation of medicinal plants. . It is also recommended to establish a Center of Excellence in the form of National Institute of Ayurvedic Education and Research (NIEAR) at faculty of ayurveda at IMS, BHU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-comes-up-with-mahamana-declarations-to-check-covid-19/articleshow/75540622.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Varanasi||Jaunpur man flees from quarantine in Haryana, caught||Varanasi: A 40-year-old man from Jaunpur, who worked as an auto driver in Mumbai, fled during lockdown in a truck and then from an isolation centre in Palwal, and left Haryana and UP Police sweating till he was traced. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Monday, “A man of Molnapur Sambhopur Khurd village under Saraikhwaja police station in Jaunpur district was working as auto driver in Mumbai since years. During lockdown, he managed to board a truck and was dropped by the driver at Palwal in Haryana last week but was caught and put in a quarantine centre where his sample was taken for test.” The man managed to escape from the isolation centre in Palwal in Haryana before his test report arrived and reached his home in Jaunpur on Sunday morning. When his report confirmed he had coronavirus infection, the officials in Haryana were left worried. Palwal police contacted Jaunpur officials following which Saraikhwaja police caught him from home and admitted him to the isolation ward of SSL hospital of BHU in Varanasi on Monday and lodged an FIR against him. Senior sub-inspector of Saraikhwaja police station Shiv Prakash Verma said a team raided the village of the auto driver and caught him there. Verma said an FIR was lodged against him under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, section 188 and appropriate sections of Epidemic Disease Act. The officials started tracing the contacts of the man and found that besides his family members he had come in contact with many persons while travelling from Palwal to Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/jaunpur-man-flees-from-quarantine-in-haryana-caught/articleshow/75540685.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||2 held for using fake pass to ferry people from Chennai||Thanjavur: Police in Thanjavur district arrested two people for using a fake travel e-pass and ferrying people using a tempo stranded in Chennai six consecutive times. According to police, the accused have been identified as P Nagarajan, 45, Savukkadi Thoppu Street in Thiruvidaimaruthur in the district and his friend Arivazhagan, 35, a resident of Kasi Raman Street in Kumbakonam. A fish vendor J Senguttuvan, 58, of Periyasamithambi Nagar in Kumbakonam wanted to bring his relatives, who were stranded in Chennai following the lockdown. He applied online with the district collector appealing to provide a travel pass a few weeks ago. However, the pass was not issued to him. Meanwhile, Senguttuvan approached Nagarajan, a driver working in a private travels company in Kumbakonam, asking to do the needful to get a travel pass. Assuring to get the same, Nagarajan got Rs 5,000 from Senguttuvan and instead of applying for the pass, he himself forged a fake travel pass with the help of his friend Arivazhagan. Using the fake pass, Nagarajan went to Chennai along with Senguttuvan and brought his relatives. Encouraged by the first trip, which was completed successfully without any police interception, he travelled five more times to Chennai to ferry people stranded there. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-held-for-using-fake-pass-to-ferry-people-from-chennai/articleshow/75543742.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kochi||Addition of 4 pvt labs boosts testing in state||Kochi: Giving a boost to Covid-19 testing facilities in Kerala, four more private labs in the state received permission from ICMR to conduct tests. With this, there are now six private labs and 14 government labs that can test for coronavirus. More testing facility in the private sector also means that hospitals can now plan their elective surgeries without much delay. The four new private labs to receive Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permission are at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and Aster Medcity in Kochi, Dane Diagnostics Pvt Ltd at Palakkad and Medivision Scan & Diagnostic Research Centre in Kochi. DDRC SRL Diagnostics at Kochi and MIMS Lab Services at Kozhikode had received permission earlier. As on May 3, about 32,217 tests have been conducted in the state, with an average daily test of 758. This is much less compared to neighbouring states of Karnataka or Tamil Nadu that is conducting average daily tests of 2,344 and 4,881 respectively. DDRC SRL Diagnostics, which started Covid-19 testing from mid-April, has so far tested 896 samples. “Majority of the tests – about 300 – were for Lakshwadeep evacuation, some were on suspected cases in the ICU and the rest were tested before surgeries. Few contacts of the health workers were also tested,” said Dr Ajith Joy, managing director, DDRC SRL Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd. RT-PCR and US-FDA-approved GeneXpert are the two testing kits approved by ICMR as confirmatory test. Private hospitals can test patients within their hospital or take samples from other places. However, they need to notify the results to district health authorities. Once private labs conduct tests, district authorities needn’t do any confirmatory tests. A private hospital can charge Rs 4,500 for tests. However, just like in the government sector, even in the private sector, shortage of kits or cartridges remains a concern. “Despite the permission, there are still lots of challenges. The cartridges for kits available in the market are limited in numbers. We plan to save our kits for doing tests on patients for an emergency surgery or a really sick patient who come to the hospital. We expect to receive around 25 kits this week,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, head, department of Infectious Diseases & Hospital Infection Control, Aster Medcity. If major hospitals decide to run their operation theatres to full capacity, then each hospital would require to test minimum 30 to 40 persons per day. However, due to limited availability of kits, the private hospitals have decided to limit elective surgeries to one or two days in a week. “We are planning to start elective surgeries this week after proper scheduling so that there is no rush in the hospital,” Dr Sanjeev Singh, medical superintendent, AIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/addition-of-4-pvt-labs-boosts-testing-in-state/articleshow/75541484.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Migrant workers block road||Rajkot: Migrant workers came out on the roads in huge numbers in Rajkot on Monday with demand to provide them the facility to return to their natives. The workers had gathered at Gondal Chowkdi, Shapar road and Mavdi Chowkdi. The police had to intervene to disperse the mob. A group of labourers also gathered at Rajkot collector’s office. Similar labour protests were also held at Mundra-Anjar road in Kutch district on Monday.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrant-workers-block-road/articleshow/75541492.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Varanasi||Reports of 87 samples sent to KGMU still awaited: DM||VARANASI: The district administration did not get any test report from KGMU, Lucknow while Covid-19 tests at BHU lab remained suspended even on Monday. However, as markets reopened, retailers of essential commodities and drugs got a major relief. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We had sent 87 samples to KGMU on Sunday. But, we had not received any test report till late evening. Decision of BHU to restart tests at its microbiology lab is also awaited.” On Monday, 151 reports were sent to KGMU from Varanasi, he added. The BHU lab had been closed on May 1 after a woman lab scientist was found infected. All 13 lab staff had been quarantined. Following the training of new batch of lab scientists and technicians as well as sterilisation process, the microbiology lab was expected to be restarted for Covid-19 test. However, the BHU officials could also not make it clear when the tests will be restarted. As an alternative arrangemen,t 45 samples had been sent to KGMU on May 2 and report of 44 claiming three new positive cases had come on Sunday. DM said that samples collected even on Monday had been sent to KGMU. On the other hand, the shops of essential commodities, electrical and mechanical repair work, fodder and many non-essential goods were opened in markets between 10 am and 5 pm. As essential goods were available in past 40 days of lockdown, the retail outlets did not pull crowds. But, the wholesale markets of foodgrain, edible oil, medicine and other goods were heavily crowded as retailers looked in a hurry to restock articles in their shops, which have become almost empty. The DM said that it was reported that shops of many those articles, which were not listed for opening, had also been opened. The owners of such shops were warned to avoid opening their shops from Tuesday till any further order. He said, in case they would be found opened on Tuesday also, stern action would be initiated against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/reports-of-87-samples-sent-to-kgmu-still-awaited-dm/articleshow/75540733.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||B’luru hospitals use startup’s remote patient- monitoring system||Bengaluru: A city-based startup has offered a cutting-edge remote patient-monitoring system that can set up isolation wards to manage increased demand, at a time when experts predict the city’s ICUs will be overwhelmed at the peak of Covid-19. Stasis, a healthcare technology startup with offices in Bengaluru and Los Angeles, is offering a well-tested remote patient-monitoring solution, which, over the years, has been implemented in over 40 hospitals across India, with a focus on southern India, including two Fortis hospitals and two Columbia Asia hospitals and the Ramaiah Medical College Hospital (RMCH) in Bengaluru.. The system measures vital parameters like heart rate, oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, skin temperature, electrocardiogram and non-invasive blood pressure. Dr Roheet Rao, director, Stasis, said: “Disconnected patient monitors cannot meet the needs of this epidemic, connected care solutions can ensure better patient safety while safeguarding staff and doctors against exposure. We are actively helping governments, private hospitals, and special projects to design and implement remote patient monitoring, which is the need of the hour.” Stasis’ customers, Rao said, choose this system for the ease of implementation, US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) cleared clinical accuracy, affordability and, above all, the ease with which one can go live and get the right data to the right stakeholder in a timely fashion to save lives. RMCH has begun using this system, while Fortis is in the process of using it specifically for the pandemic and will be announcing the same soon. RMCH and Stasis teamed up to set up remote-monitored isolation wards to manage suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19 so as to protect their healthcare workers and other hospitalised patients from unnecessary exposure. By allowing medical workers to remotely monitor patients on their smartphone, laptop or central monitors, remote patient monitoring significantly reduces the frequency of contact with suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients, thereby protecting the staff and reducing the requirement for PPEs, which are in short supply. “We have equipped our isolation wards with Stasis to ensure the highest level of care and patient safety, while also protecting our staff and doctors from unnecessary exposure to Covid-19,” says Dr Anil Kumar, professor & HOD, internal medicine, RMCH, adding that with a solution like this, they were able to set-up a central monitoring station on a different floor to ensure doctors could manage cases without having to be in the ward. Dr Harish K, associate dean, RMCH, said Stasis was able to implement its solution within a few hours, with minimal IT support and infrastructure requirement. “We also have to work with reduced staffing, which is possible with Stasis as it automates data collection and risk scoring, and has AI-driven proactive notifications to identify patient deterioration early,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-hospitals-use-startups-remote-patient-monitoring-system/articleshow/75543786.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||Big alcohol bill spells trouble for seller, buyer||A liquor bill of Rs 52,800 that went viral on WhatsApp has got the seller into trouble, reports Anil Gejji. The buyer, too, could land in trouble soon. The Karnataka excise department has filed a case against the seller as rules mandate that retail liquor outlets cannot sell more than 2.6 litres of India-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) or 18 litres of beer to a customer per day. In this case, the retailer sold 13.5 litres of liquor and 35 litres of beer to a customer. Excise officials came to know about the violation after the bill went viral on social media. The buyer, who presumably posted the bill on social media, remains unidentified. The excise department can file a case against the buyer too because rules prohibit a person from carrying more than 2.6 liters of any category of liquor. When officials questioned the shop owner, he said the liquor was purchased by a group of eight people but the payment was made using a single card. “We are investigating his (the owner) claim,” sadi A Giri, excise DC, Bengaluru South. A bill of Rs 59,952 in Mangaluru is also doing the rounds on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-alcohol-bill-spells-trouble-for-seller-buyer/articleshow/75544707.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||Govt guidelines for UP migrants||Prayagraj: Health department officials on Monday collected samples of 168 migrants who had arrived in the city from different states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana in April last week. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Health department teams collected a total of 168 samples from different quarantine centres in Koraon and Soraon on Monday. They had arrived from different parts of the country including states like Mumbai, Nashik, Hyderabad and Ahemedabad.” Maharashtra has been in news because of a Dr Sahai, however, claimed that over 15,000 migrants are expected to arrive city from different parts of the country in days to come. For that, fresh guidelines have been issued and both thermal screening and health check of migrants would be conducted on arrival. Importantly, those experiencing symptoms similar to those of Covid -19 would be initially quarantined and then tested. Even after they were tested negative, they would be kept in institutional quarantine for seven days. After seven days, they would again tested and if found negative, they would be home quarantined for another 14 days. However, those found asymptomatic would be asked to quarantine themselves at home for 21 days . Still, a health worker would be visiting them every third day for medical a check-up and testing. In Prayagraj, 10 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. Of these, one patient has recovered, while nine of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 Level One hospital in Kotwa and Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital. On Saturday night, the wife of a Lukerganj-based Covid-19 patient also tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-guidelines-for-up-migrants/articleshow/75540813.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||30% increase in traffic, a tough day for Delhi police||NEW DELHI: Relaxation in the lockdown rules resulted in a 30% increase in the traffic volume on Delhi roads on Monday morning. Snarls were reported on Ring Road and drivers were caught violating norms at several places. Being the first day of the relaxation, most of the violators were let off with a stern warning. A few others were booked under Section 188 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Additional cops were deployed at some of the pickets to manage the excess volume of traffic during peak hours. At the BRT corridor near Chirag Delhi, a few violators tried to hoodwink the cops by asking their pillion riders to get off the two-wheeler and walk past the picket. Some of them were detained for a few hours. “Because of this, medical staff, bank employees, students and even people travelling for medical treatment had to go through the screening at the pickets,” said a cop. Shreyasi, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, had asked her friend to drop her off at her office in Kalkaji in the morning. While returning in the afternoon, they were stopped at the BRT and made to stand on a side. “Arrangements for people who have to resume work should have been made. Metro is not working and there are no buses. I had asked my friend to drop me and later pick me up as well,” Shreyasi told the cops who let her go after a couple of minutes. Same was the case for Jayant, a resident of Madangir. His minor daughter was riding the pillion on his motorcycle. They had gone to buy books. “Minors should stay indoors and only one person is allowed on a two-wheeler,” the cops told Jayant before allowing him to go. At various picket points in Delhi, commuters were seen arguing with police as well. The cops had a tough time convincing co-passengers not to sit in the front and enforcing other laws. Senior police officers told TOI that many Delhiites were thinking that the lockdown was over. “The lockdown is still in place. There are relaxations, but people cannot come out without a purpose. Checking each vehicle leads to snarls. We also have to ensure the movement of essential and emergency vehicles,” said an officer. On DND Flyway, motorists with a pillion rider were being sent back on the same side of the carriageway. At the Noida-Delhi border near Mayur Vihar, the cops were asking the commuters to only travel for emergency or a valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-increase-in-traffic-a-tough-day-for-police/articleshow/75543778.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 5, 2020||Goa||No concession on domestic bills: Cabral||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral said there would be no concession of power bills for domestic consumers. “Ever since the lockdown was enforced, there has been a spike in energy consumption because people have had to stay at home. Due to this, the department has been facing problems and hence cannot give benefits to domestic consumers,” he said. Electricity bills of hotels, which are usually raised on the first day of each month, have not yet been raised, Cabral said. “I will speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard and will proceed accordingly,” he said. Cabral also said he has moved a proposal to bring all streetlights under the purview of the electricity department. Presently, only 60% of streetlights are being maintained by the department while the rest are looked after by various other authorities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-concession-on-domestic-bills-cabral/articleshow/75544346.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||10 Dahod cases have links to MP||Vadodara: With seven members of the same family testing positive, alarm bells pealed for Dahod district administration which is on a war path to quarantine the family and also collect samples of other family members for Covid-19 tests. The family had gone to Madhya Pradesh (MP) in March and managed to return last month, said officials adding that test results of remaining seven members are awaited. . While two brothers residing in the Kasba area of Dahod tested positive on Saturday and Sunday, five more members tested positive on Monday. These include the wives of the two brothers and three of their children. Sources said that the family had visited Neemuch in MP and somehow managed to reach Jhabua bordering Gujarat. In all, 14 members of the family managed to reach home entering Gujarat through Dahod. Dahod collector Vijay Kharadi said that the family had returned home after a stay of around 40 days in MP citing medical emergency. He added that the heath department had come to know about their arrival. Kharadi, however, added that the details of how the family managed to travel despite lockdown were being ascertained. Earlier, a girl who had accompanied her family from Indore for the burial of a family member who had died in Dahod, tested positive. A health worker who had come in contact with the girl also tested positive later. The girl’s uncle who was kept in quarantine too tested positive when samples were taken to ascertain if he could be discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/10-dahod-cases-have-links-to-mp/articleshow/75540658.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Homeward bound: 85km hike under blazing sun||NEW DELHI: On the Meerut Expressway on Monday, a forlorn group of five plodded along as a few cars and two wheelers sped past. The afternoon sun beat down on their defeated faces. Among the three adults, the older of the men bore a child high on his already burdened shoulders, his brother walked alongside carrying some things, while the children’s mother followed, a bag filled with their meagre belongings slung across her shoulders. They began the walk on Sunday from Nathupur in Haryana and their destination lay 85km to the northeast —their ancestral home in Hapur in UP. Special arrangements may have been made to transport migrant workers back to their homes, but there are many like this family that haven’t been able to hitch a ride. Dinesh, 34, and his brother, Vikram worked in a machine factory in Nathupur in Gurgaon. When they reported for work on March 27, they found the gates locked. The security guard told them it had been closed indefinitely to comply with the nationwide Covid lockdown. “Suddenly we were jobless,” said Vikram, struggling to keep his emotions under control, “and after 15 days, we were almost penniless.” For over a month, the family of five — the two brothers, Dinesh’s wife and his two children, four-year-old Pari and three-year-old Yash — just about survived. There were days when the three adults slept hungry, rationing their miserly remaining money to get milk for the two kids. Then, a few days ago, the landlord asked the brothers to pay the Rs 2,500 rent or vacate the room. “The choice was grim: either die hungry here or walk to our village,” said Dinesh. Vikram sold his mobile phone to a co-worker for Rs 5,000. On Sunday, the family cleared their rent and other dues and began the 85-km hike to Hapur. It hasn’t been an easy amble with police stopping them at every barricade. On Monday morning, they were interrogated at the Ghaziabad border. Eventually good sense prevailed and the cops gave the five some food and fruits. What you are doing is illegal, the policemen told the desperate group, but we understand your desperation. A third brother, Golu, is stranded in Gujarat. “Once he reaches Hapur, we will stay with our parents. It’s only now we realise how comfortable it is to live with a family” Vikram said. “We will probably earn less money at home, but we are unlikely to return to this inhuman place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/homeward-bound-85km-hike-under-blazing-sun/articleshow/75543794.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Man kills paramour before committing suicide in Rajkot||Rajkot: A man is suspected to have strangled his paramour before committing suicide in Rangeela Society of Nava Gam locality in Rajkot on Monday. The victims, identified as Naran Jhakhelia and Kajal Makwana, aged 25 years, knew each other before their marriages. While Jhakhelia had divorced his wife and was living alone, Makwana used to live with her husband and three children, said cops. “Jhakhelia was found hanging from the ceiling fan of Makwana’s house, while Makwana’s body was lying on the bed. It is suspected that Jhakhelia had first killed Makwana before hanging himself,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station. At the time of the incident, Makwana’s two elder daughters were out of the room, while her six-month-old daughter was sleeping in a cradle nearby. Makwana’s husband, Suresh, had gone to his native in Bedla village near Rajkot. “It is suspected that both the victims had taken the drastic step after realizing that there was no future to their relationship. We will be able to know whether Jhakhelia had strangled Makwana, once her postmortem is conducted,” added Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-kills-paramour-before-committing-suicide-in-rajkot/articleshow/75541512.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Farmers told to use ADT 45, 43, Co 51 for kuruvai||Trichy: As kuruvai paddy cultivation is beginning in the delta districts, agriculture department has asked farmers to sow ADT 45, 43 and Co 51 varieties, which can be harvested in a short span of time and have better resistance to disease. As the Stanley Reservoir has enough water, farmers have started preparations for kuruvai cultivation expecting that water would be released on June 12, the customary date for releasing water for delta cultivation. According officials, it is expected that farmers would take up kuruvai cultivation in around 3 lakh acres across the delta districts this year. The agriculture officials have appealed to the farmers to sow Co 51 variety of paddy seed, as it requires minimum water. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-told-to-use-adt-45-43-co-51-for-kuruvai/articleshow/75543782.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Autorickshaw drivers accuse government of bias||Aurangabad: Autorickshaw drivers from Marathwada have accused the state government of bias as it has allowed private cabs to ply in the green and orange zones, but not the autorickshaws. Nishar Ahmed Khan, a leader of the autorickshaw drivers’ body, said it is unfair to leave them (the autorickshaw drivers) out while granting relief to some during the extended lockdown. “Some of the autorickshaw drivers tried to ply their vehicles at places other than Aurangabad and Hingoli. However, they were asked to remain off the roads. We also received complaints of drivers getting penalised. We feel this is a great injustice to us,” he said. Khan said the government cannot have double-standards while relaxing lockdown norms for private transporters. “We demand the government to allow autorickshaw drivers also to ferry a maximum of two passengers at a time,” he added. As a protest against this alleged biased treatment meted out by the government, the autorickshaw drivers have started campaigning on social media platforms. “We have appealed to the autorickshaw drivers to shoot their videos, narrating their personal financial crisis and other issues. The videos will be posted on the social media by tagging different politicians from ruling parties and opposition as well as different government authorities,” Khan said. Aurangabad city has around 15,000 registered autorickshaws, which have been off-road since the lockdown was announced. The region, as a whole, has over 70,000 autorickshaws. Families of all the autorickshaw drivers are struggling. Divisional authorities said the lockdown-related norms were framed at the state and central levels. “The autorickshaw drivers should take up the issue with the government by lodging a formal complaint,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/autorickshaw-drivers-accuse-government-of-bias/articleshow/75541518.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Online classes begin for first year students of Pudukottai med college||Trichy: Pudukottai government medical college has started online classes for first year MBBS students from Monday since the colleges are not reopening amidst escalating cases of Covid-19 across the state and as the lockdown has been extended to May 17. The first-year students have more syllabus to cover and since it is mostly theory, it would not be difficult to teach students through online classes, sources said. The administration has made arrangements in the lecture hall for teachers to conduct online classes through software tools. Sujatha, vice principal and professor of physiology took online classes on calcium metabolism on Monday. Dean A L Meenakshisundaram said that there was good response on the first day of the class and 140 first-year students out of total 150 attended the class. This includes 20 students, who are staying at the hostel. “We use power point presentation, which can be viewed individually by students attending online class and that is an advantage,” said Meenakshisundaram. While this is perhaps the first attempt by any government medical college in the state, Meenakshisundaram said they don’t have any precedence and through feedback they are trying to improve in certain areas. “We are exploring the possibilities of increasing the internet speed as we have been witnessing slow connectivity. We are looking for cost-effective options,” he said. Initially, there will be three classes per day of 30 minutes, which is expected to be extended for second and third year students in the coming days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/online-classes-begin-for-first-year-students-of-pudukottai-med-college/articleshow/75543790.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||‘Religious activities through loudspeaker banned in UP’||PRAYAGRAJ: The state government on Monday submitted before the Allahabad high court that religious activity of any religious group through loudspeaker has been restricted in the entire Uttar Pradesh in view of the guidelines of lockdown, which has been clamped to check spread of Covid-19. In response to a PIL filed by BSP MP from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, seeking lifting of ban on ‘azaan’ (call to prayer) from mosques in Ghazipur, the affidavit filed on behalf of the state government before the court further stated that wherever potential danger of corona’ virus is detected, the area concerned is declared as containment zone because public health is the prime concern of the government. In this backdrop, the affidavit filed by additional chief secretary home, Avanish Awasthi, clarified that Ghazipur district has been declared as hotspot area, hence in terms of guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi on March 24, 2020, certain restrictions have been imposed. Since ‘azaan’ is basically a call for prayer on loudspeaker, hence it has been restricted in Ghazipur, he stated in the affidavit. Keeping the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the state government on record, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Ajit Kumar directed to hear this matter on May 5 through video conferencing. According to additional advocate general, Manish Goyal, who represented state government in this matter conducted through video conferencing, the petitioner’s allegation of violation of fundamental right of religious freedom has been specifically responded by stating that Article 25 of the Constitution, which gives fundamental right to freedom of religion, also provides that it is subject to public order, morality and health. In this backdrop, AAG submitted that freedom of religion is not absolute, it is subject to health. Hence, when the issue of health arises, it would be dealt with first and foremost, submitted the AAG. The AAG further submitted that all religious activities of any religious have been prohibited on March 24 when the lockdown was declared by the government in order to check corona virus. According to the AAG, in the counter affidavit of the state government, a list of instances have been filed disclosing how people assembled in mosques in Ghazipur following a call through ‘azaan’ and administration had a tough time to control the situation. Earlier, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, his counsel Syed Safdar Ali Kazmi submitted before the court that ‘azaan’ should be allowed as it does not violate any of the condition of lockdown. According to him, ‘azaan’, which is a call for prayer, is being religiously practised and there is no congregational prayer in any of the mosques in the entire district of Ghazipur. Therefore, he argued that banning of ‘azaan’ that too on the eve of the beginning of the month of Ramzan was uncalled for, hence illegal. In the PIL filed before the court, the BSP MP has stated that that everyone had been diligently following the lockdown. In this backdrop, prayers and gathering in mosques or any other religious places continue to be prohibited in Ghazipur. But, according to him, ‘azaan’ was allowed in every mosque throughout the state as well as in other parts of the country. The petitioner alleged that all of a sudden from April 24 onwards, it was found that ‘azaan from mosques had been prohibited by local administration in Ghazipur. Consequently, the police administration issued a warning that if anyone dared to make ‘azaan’, they would be booked under the National Security Act (NSA). Hence, aggrieved over it, he filed this petition before the high court, with a request to permit ‘azaan’ in order to protect fundamental right of public of Ghazipur district. Azaan is the Islamic call to prayer, recited by a ‘muezzin’, a man who calls Muslims to prayer from the minaret of a mosque at prescribed times of the day. The meaning of this word is to listen, to hear, be informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/religious-activities-through-loudspeaker-banned-in-up/articleshow/75540791.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Three more Nanded gurdwara langar staffers test positive for coronavirus||AURANGABAD: Three more employees associated with the langar (a community kitchen) run near the Nanded gurdwara tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The new cases have taken the tally langar-related Covid-19 cases to 23. Earlier, four bus drivers and one attendant, who had travelled to Punjab to transport the stranded Sikh pilgrims, had contracted the infection. The total number of positive cases in Nanded district too has increased to 34, which includes 28 individuals who have had some connection to the gurdwara. The district has had three Covid deaths so far. “We are tracing the high-risk and low-risk contacts who were in touch with the new patients. An appeal is being made to such individuals to come forward for health screening voluntarily. The entire gurdwara, the bathing ghats around it and other nearby areas have been declared a containment zone. The area is already sealed and no public movement is allowed,” Nanded district deputy collector Prashant Shelke said. As per the official data, lab reports of 62 throat swab samples were still awaited by Monday evening. The number includes samples of a few gurdwara staffers and students who have returned from Kota in Rajasthan. Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, a board member of the Nanded gurdwara, said the shrine authority has been extending all cooperation to the district administration. “Nanded gurdwara has two langars — one near the main shrine and another situated around 700m from the shrine. The langar, which is relatively far away, has witnessed the outbreak. The main shrine and both the langars are closed for devotees till further instruction,” he said. Mahajan reiterated the claim that the Nanded gurdwara and its premise had contracted the disease from Punjab. “Bus drivers who travelled to Punjab developed the infection after reaching the destination. Upon their return and before testing positive, the drivers inadvertently came in contact with the langar staffers and spread the disease,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-more-nanded-gurdwara-langar-staffers-test-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75541501.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||Migrant workers return, bring home the virus: How states are building Covid walls||RAIPUR/MANDYA/JAIPUR: Fourteen migrant workers in institutional quarantine since returning to their native Chhattisgarh tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, but even more alarming was the spectre of infections travelling undetected across inter-state borders as Karnataka and Rajasthan on Monday reported three new cases where the returnees had sneaked in without being screened. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updatesThe fresh cases in Chhattisgarh represent the biggest spike in the state’s coronavirus cycle, coming when only seven patients were left in hospital. With another person testing positive on Monday, Chhattisgarh’s Covid count now stands at 55. Before the 14 migrant workers, three returnees from Jharkhand had tested positive. In Karnataka’s Mandya, two people tested positive just over 10 days after violating the lockdown to drive down to their village from Mumbai. Deputy commissioner Venkatesh said they arrived in Karnataka along with some family members in the same car on April 23. Both have been shifted to the isolation ward of Mandya Medical College. “We are trying to identify and locate the primary and secondary contacts of these patients,” Venkatesh said. Rajasthan, too, braced for a potential spread of Covid-19 through migrant workers illegally coming in from Gujarat after a native of Kasba village in Dungarpur became the tribal district’s sixth positive case. Officials said the patient had crossed over on April 17, after which someone reported him to the health authorities. He was put in institutional quarantine after being caught roaming about on April 23. His first report on April 24 was negative, but the second sample taken on Sunday came out positive. The village has been sealed. “Many migrant workers are walking back to Rajasthan from Gujarat, using country roads to skirt the border checkpoints,” district chief medical health officer Mahesh Parmar said. On Monday, the Ratanpur checkpoint on the Rajasthan-Gujarat border was chock-a-block with migrant workers for the eighth consecutive day. Long queues for registration and screening and fear of being put in quarantine are driving some migrant workers to try and sneak in through other routes, an official said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news HOW STATES ARE BUILDING COVID WALLSTOI does a reality check on screening, testing and quarantining protocols adopted by states sending people by train or road and those receiving them. MAHARASHTRA ➤ Outbound migrants need to submit registration forms in groups of 25 to the police or district collector; they also need a medical certificate ➤ The government sends evacuation requests to the home states of workers, seeking permission to send the group ➤ Once nod is received, the designated officer gets in touch with the rlys and identifies a station and time for the train RAJASTHAN ➤ Among first states to set up a registration helpline for inbound and outbound migrants; the helpline has so far received 10 lakh calls, including 7 lakh from inbound workers ➤ State is preparing a database of its migrant workers – district and state-wise – to arrange transport for them; no health certificate required ➤ Returnees being screened and registered at 15 border checkpoints before being allowed to board state buses MP & CHHATTISGARH ➤ Nobody needs to produce a medical certificate; returnees are asked to show ID proof, provide bank details ➤ Screening on arrival constitutes a body temperature check and filling in a questionnaire on ailments, travel history etc; home quarantine for 14 days KARNATAKA➤ Bengaluru Police collecting data of migrant workers in various camps ➤ Health teams visit labour camps for screening; those cleared for return get priority if they register through the ‘Seva Sindhu’ and ‘Aarogya Setu apps ’ ➤ Anyone wanting to return to Karnataka needs to register through the Seva Sindhu app or website; nodal officers appointed for specific states GUJARAT ➤ Migrant workers wanting to leave have to register on a portal for permission to travel ➤ Each person is required to carry a medical certificate issued at community health centres one or two days before the scheduled departure ➤ Mandatory temperature check at the railway station or bus depot; those with symptoms not allowed to board AP & TELANGANA ➤ Migrant workers wanting to leave need to approach local police or tehsildar to register; medical certificate and transit pass mandatory to leave the state ➤ Telangana has border checkpoints where health teams conduct screening and check health certificates, which should also mention if the returnee has stayed in a red zone ➤ Proof of address and purpose of visit mandatory KERALA ➤ Health department has set up counters to screen those leaving by train; anyone with flu-like symptoms can’t travel ➤ Only Keralites from other states are currently allowed to return after registering through a website for passes; no health certificate required ➤ Screening at all entry points is a must WEST BENGAL ➤ All returnees to be sent to institutional quarantine for 14 days ➤ Strategy on migrant workers returning from a containment zone still unclear ODISHA ➤ For anyone registering to leave, government will take prior approval from the person’s native state; screening mandatory but no medical certificate will be issued ➤ Aadhar number mandatory while registering to return; Odisha is registering returnees through a portal GOA ➤ Mandatory institutional quarantine after testing on arrival for anyone entering the state ➤ Quarantine accommodation free only for those producing proof of address in Goa; they have to pay for food ➤ Non-Goans to be charged 2,500 a day per person for period of quarantine Watch Migrant workers return, bring home the virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-return-bring-home-the-virus/articleshow/75544708.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Police loosen grip as lockdown eased||Trichy: As the lockdown was relaxed, police, who have been ensuring strict enforcement of the rule so far, had no other way but loosen the grip in the city and central region on Monday. Police had arrested 4,199 violators and seized 7,452 vehicles in 2,013 cases and collected Rs 22.83 lakh fine from March 25to May 4. They had on an average arrested 100 people and seized 150 vehicles every day. However, on Monday, police had a different approach towards people despite witnessing number of people riding their bikes and driving the cars. The reason: most commercial establishments resumed operation following the easing of norms by the state government. Police who had tightened the grip on the people for roaming around the city without valid reason or on the pretext of buying essentials and medicines earlier had to allow most of them to do so because the people had reasons to argue with the police. On Monday, police arrested 20 people and seized 51 vehicles in 12 cases and imposed a fine of Rs 35,000 on the erring public. “Vehicle checks would continue because the lockdown is in force,” commissioner of police of Trichy, V Varadaraju told TOI. In central region, police maintained the usual practice. On Monday, the central zone police arrested 1,075 people and seized 735 bikes and 17 four-wheelers. During the lockdown since March 25, police had arrested 82,711 people and seized 61,443 bikes and 1,338 four-wheelers. “We are following the same approach checking the people. Since economic activities are happening, we are not preventing everybody as we are sticking to the rules,” said inspector general of police (IGP), central zone, A Amalraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-loosen-grip-as-lockdown-eased/articleshow/75543797.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||Cheers for tipplers! Booze shops open after 40 days||PRAYAGRAJ: Long queues were spotted outside most liquor shops in Prayagraj and Kaushambi as buyers waited patiently for their turn on Monday, when these stores opened after a 40-day hiatus because of the Covid-19 outbreak and following lockdown. Over 800 liquor shops were given the green light to reopen in Kaushambi and Pratapgarh on Monday after the lockdown. Shops in Kaushambi and Pratapgarh witnessed fewer queues than the ones in Prayagraj. In areas like Allapur, Georgetown, Sohbatiyabagh, Civil Lines, Katra, Baihrana and Kydganj of Prayagraj district, residents started lining up outside liquor shops since early morning. At many places, residents were seen ignoring social distancing norms. Shopkeepers frequently urged shoppers to stand at least a metre apart or else they would close shop. “Initially, there was a mad rush among customers to buy liquor. Most of the mwere worried that they would not be able to get the required quantity. The customers agreed to stand in circles drawn a metre apart outside our shop only after we assured them that there was ample stock,” said a liquor shop owner in Civil Lines. Most of the shops wore crowded look between 10am and 2pm and the numbers started declining after 2pm. At least two policemen (constables or homeguards) were seen at each shop for crowd management. Both sellers and buyers were wearing masks. “Initially, people rushed to buy alcohol and they ended up forming long queues outside shops. However, policemen deployed on the spot forced them to maintain social distancing and ensured that everyone wore a mask,” said SP (city) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cheers-for-tipplers-booze-shops-open-after-40-days/articleshow/75540859.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court to reopen on May 8||PRAYAGRAJ: The High Court at Allahabad as well as at Lucknow will reopen from May 8 in two different shifts while adhering to social distancing norms. In a notification issued on Monday, the Registrar General of Allahabad High Court, Ajay Kumar Srivastava said that the administrative committee of high court on Monday resolved to open the high court at Allahabad as well as at Lucknow from May 8 in two different shifts having different sessions for criminal as well as civil matters. The time for each session shall be from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm and from 1.30 pm to 3.30 pm. The committee has decided that while making the courts operational, all protocol pertaining to social distancing shall be maintained. This arrangement shall remain in currency till further orders, added the notification. It has been further clarified in the notification that all fresh matters may be filed manually as well as by electronic mode for taking up fresh matters. No need shall be there to file any urgency application, the notification further added. These decisions were taken in a meeting of the administrative committee of Allahabad High Court, which met on Monday to consider the issue regarding regular sitting of high court at Allahabad as well as at Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-to-reopen-on-may-8/articleshow/75540898.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||35-year-old’s body found in trans-Yamuna area of city||PRAYAGRAJ: The beheaded body of a 35-year old man was found lying near Salaiya Khurd village under Khiri police station in trans-Yamuna area on late Sunday night. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. The incident came to light when the locals spotted beheaded body of the youth and informed the police. The deceased, identified as Sanjay Shukla alias Satyam, was a resident of Laltara village and was working as ‘rozgar sevak’ in Salaiya Khurd village. Agitated over the killing, the family members of the slain youth made an abortive bid to block Laltara market road but police foiled their attempt. Police pacified them after assuring that stringent action would be taken against the killers. Five persons have been detained by police for interrogation. Police, after verifying the call details of the deceased, found that he was asked to come outside the village, said a police officer.  The deceased had left his house on bike but did not return till late night. On Monday morning, his beheaded body was recovered near Salaiya Khurd village hilly area. His bike was found parked near the body, the police officer further said. The family members of the deceased have named five persons in the FIR lodged with the Khiri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/35-year-olds-body-found-in-trans-yamuna-area-of-city/articleshow/75540894.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Allahabad||Blast in Kaushambi firecracker manufacturing unit kills 3 women||Prayagraj: Three women were killed and two others were injured after an explosion in a firecracker manufacturing unit in Bharwari, under Kokhraj police station, in Kaushambi district on Monday. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “A 22-year-old woman who worked at the factory died on spot, while the two others succumbed to their injuries during treatment at hospital. An FIR was lodged against the unit’s owner Haider Ali alias Pappu, Vaish, Saif, Munna, Chand, Pintoo and one other person.” The accused were booked under sections 188, 286, and 304 of the IPC and section 98 of Explosive Act. The deceased, identified as Geeta (22), Radhika ( 27) and Pushpa (18), all residents of Bharwari. Ali ran the manufacturing unit in ward number 2 in Bharwari area. “Around 4am police was alerted that there had been an LPG cylinder blast. However, when senior police officials reached the spot they found that it was an explosion of a much bigger scale.” Police said the explosion occurred when three to four employees were working in the manufacturing unit. Police are yet to find out what might have triggered the blast. Soon after the blast, locals rushed to the spot and tried to douse the flames with the buckets water, while also helping the police with rescue operations. “There was too much smoke and dust. We were not able to find out what actually happened. The entire building collapsed due to the force of the blast,” said a local resident of Bharwari area. The manufacturing unit’s owner Haider Ali and his family members managed to flee the scene. The explosion was so severe that it also damaged the window panes of neighbouring houses. Local residents claimed that explosion damaged the window panes of one Esha’s house, leaving his wife Albeena and son Nazim injured. Police said it was not clear if Haider had a valid license for running the firecracker manufacturing unit. Meanwhile, local residents told the police that Haider and his brothers did not have a license to stock up on the raw materials used in manufacturing firecrackers. They had been running the unit since the past three years. The explosion site was just 100 metres away from the local police outpost. One of the victim Geeta’s family alleged that Haider and his wife had come to their house early morning and had asked the deceased to come back to the unit. “The factory had been closed due to the lockdown. They had also called up two other women for the same,” the family alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/blast-in-kaushambi-firecracker-manufacturing-unit-kills-3-women/articleshow/75540833.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid lockdown takes a toll on Ramzan shopping||NAGPUR: As much the holy month of Ramzan is about fasting and feasting, it is also about new clothes, jewelry and dressing up the traditional way. As no shopping is possible amid lockdown, people couldn't go out to pick up their favourite shararas, sherwanis and kurtas. Men generally continue with their marriage sherwani, kurta pyjama or pathani for years. But women love to shop for jewelry, henna and perfumes. With lockdown continuing it’s not possible to get pathanis, kurta pyjama, salwar suit, and gowns stitched. TOI spoke to a few garment sellers, shop owners, and rozedaars to learn about the clothing business and dressing scene. Mohammad Shoeb, who owns a garment shop in Mominpura that is usually the nerve-centre of Eid celebrations, says his clothing business is into heavy losses as his shop is shut. But he still spoke about how it is each year. “People would come in huge numbers to buy variety of clothing items. From children to men and women, each one would pick up their favourite pieces. Now everything is at stand still,” he said. Mohammad Aslam Belawala, who also has a shop in Mominpura, shared his experience of celebrating Ramzan at home, while his shop is shut, as he was looking forward to a good business this year, “Even before Ramzan, the marriage season is the peak time for the shopowners. This year we could not have good business,” he said. “Every year the demand is high for different duppattas for women, small sherwanis for children, frocks and heavy dresses for young girls. We will wear the clothes we have at home and celebrate this pious month,” he added. Raaziya Hussain, principal at MSB educational institute, said pandemic was the time to cut out extra expenses and spend more time praying. She surely will miss the dressing up, putting on jewelry or applying henna on her hands. “This time is more about understanding the importance of what little we have, but yes we surely seek celebrations. I won’t be able to apply henna as shops are closed, no new jewelry but positively we have more time for ibaadat and that’s the greatest gift of all,” she said. Owners are hoping if the lockdown ends before Eid celebrations, they could sell all sorts of traditional clothing. “I have all the expensive and beautiful collection of anarkali, shararas and jewelry. I can’t wait to open my shop as my loyal customers would definitely come,” said an owner, who owns a big showroom in the city. Another garment shop owner Amjad Hussain said, “Hopefully the lockdown will end soon. Probably people would get their clothes stitched or buy dresses but for now the markets are shut. We are positive and hope it will end soon,” he said. Sumera Siddique along with her daughter Saleha looks forward to Ramzan as it is an opportunity to dress up but this time it will all be limited. “We will wear the old clothes and so will my son. We have many traditional sharara and suits. We will surely celebrate and buy newer ones once this ends,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-lockdown-takes-a-toll-on-ramzan-shopping/articleshow/75543808.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Opening of Ponmalai rly workshop deferred||Trichy: Though the Union government has allowed public sector units to resume work from May 4, the Ponmalai Railway Workshop has deferred reopening after May 6 in line with the state government’s announcement that regular work at industries would commence from May 6. Only the administrative offices started functioning on Monday with minimum staff, except those residing in containment zones. In a letter circulated by the personnel officer of Central Workshop of Southern Railway to the Ponmalai Workshop, since orders from the district collector are expected to be issued on May 6, all the employees must be prepared to report for duty at any time after the date. Railway unions have appealed to the district collector to issue an order to postpone the date to May 17, hoping that the lockdown would be lifted across the country. They said it will be difficult for workers at the workshop to maintain social distancing due to the nature of their job. They have cited the order issued by the Coimbatore district collector denying permission to resume work at the railway workshop in Pothanur in the district. “As per the Union government's order, all the workshops should function with 33% workers. Around 4,900 employees are working at Ponmalai workshop. Of them, around 300 alone have been residing at the workshop quarters,” said D Manoharan, deputy general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/opening-of-ponmalai-rly-workshop-deferred/articleshow/75543800.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Sugar sector seeks bailout, relook into policy||AURANGABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns abruptly cut short this year’s sugar crushing season, pushing the already ailing industry further into a crisis. The wheels of Maharashtra’s rural economy run on the sugar industry. The apex body of cooperative sugar factories has approached prime minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, separately, seeking urgent financial assistance to help the sector overcome this situation. “The pandemic broke out right when sugar cane cutting, transporting, crushing and sugar-making operations were at their peak. The lockdown brought all the operations to a standstill,” said Jaiprakash Dandegaonkar, chairman of the Maharashtra Rajya Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Sangh Ltd. Dandegaonkar and Ketanbhai C Patel, the vice-president of the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd, have written separate letters to the PM. “India’s sugar sector is unique and peculiar because it is more socio-economic. It involves about 5 crore small and marginal sugar cane-growing farmers and about 10-15 lakh workers in addition to an equal number of seasonal workers,” Patel said in his letter to the PM. Patel said government's assistance is required to help this agro-industry stand on its feet to start the crushing season later this year. Millions of sugar cane farmers are awaiting payments for the cane delivered by them to the sugar mills. The mills, on their part, do not have liquid cash and want the Union government to pay the farmers directly. Dandegaonkar said they had requested the PM to ensure that all arrears and loans of sugar factories are restructured. They want the loan payment terms to be increased and concessions to be given on interest payments. He said the sugar sector was already passing through a rough patch. The government has fixed minimum support price (MSP) at Rs 3,100, while the cost of production is Rs 3,450. The federation wants the GST on molasses to be reduced to 12% and GST on sugar to be zero. “Farmers opt for sugar cane as it is a cash crop. All the factories together have production of about 50 lakh tonne of surplus sugar. We have launched a campaign to convince farmers to opt for other crops such as grains and pulses, which attract equally good prices,” said Dandegaonkar. Sunil Patil, managing director of Samarth Cooperative Sugar Factory in Jalna, told TOI that domestic sugars sales have been impacted as industrial buyers such as ice cream, soft drinks manufacturers, have put off their purchases due to the lockdown and low sales of their products. The industrial buyers account for 65% sugar consumption, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sugar-sector-seeks-bailout-relook-into-policy/articleshow/75541548.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||BMC may now go in for homoeopathy||MUMBAI: After anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, BMC plans to use homoeopathy to prevent Covid-19 among its frontline workers here. A proposal to give Arsenicum album 30 to healthcare workers, policemen and others is strongly being considered. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani confirmed that the option was being discussed. “There was a communication from the Government of India after which we appointed a committee. Based on the committee’s report, we will consider the next course,” he said. Civic sources told the possibility of the drug being given to asymptomatic patients at quarantine centres was also being discussed. tnn  A senior BMC official said, “A group of homoeopathy experts had approached us with the suggestion and even agreed to provide doses and support through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund. We will test it according to the prescribed format. Our medical experts are working on it.” Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), under the ministry of AYUSH, had recommended that Arsenicum album30 could be taken as prophylactic medicine against coronavirus. “We will ask for the drug for our healthcare workers. It may also be given to patients in quarantine centres. We are likely to get the medicines in a day or two,” said Dr Padmaja Keskar, BMC’s executive health officer. Parel’s KEM Hospital may be the starting point, said a civic official, adding that it was not given as part of any study. Dr Daksha Shah said the drug has been distributed in the community in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. “It’s not known to cause adverse effects either,” she said. Homoeopath Dr Rajesh Shah said that Arsenicum album 30 is a known immune-modulator, which is widely prescribed for influenza-like-illnesses. “The recommendation is one doze of Arsenicum album 30 daily on an empty stomach for three days. A decision on subsequent doses should be taken depending on factors such as prevalence of epidemic, among other things,” he said, adding that the drug has helped against influenza H1N1 (swine flu).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-may-now-go-in-for-homoeopathy/articleshow/75543834.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||15 patients found -ve in 2nd test, discharged from LLR hospital||Kanpur: A positive news on Monday, 15 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Covid -19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital after getting cured. The district has so far reported 264 positive cases for Covid-19 and six among them have died. Chief Medical Officer, Dr Ashok Shukla said, 15 patients were discharged from hospital after having tested negative for coronavirus second consecutive time. “Sample of 15 Corona positive patients were sent for the second time to Covid-19 lab of GSVM medical college, however, all coronavirus-positive patients were tested negative and cured after treatment at the Covid 19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, which is quite a satisfactory figure. It was for the second time, when such a good number of patients tested negative in a single day in the district. Earlier, 20 patients of coronavirus under going treatment at Sarsaul Community Health Centre tested negative on April 25,” said CMO further. CMO added, the 15 have been declared corona-negative following first round of test. “I am highly thankful to doctors of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, I have a belief that we are capable of achieving greater things. We are defeating Corona with each passing day,” said CMO further. The total number of positive cases that were cured and tested negative in the district is now 34, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/15-patients-found-ve-in-2nd-test-discharged-from-llr-hospital/articleshow/75541550.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||No Shramik train announced for migrant workers in Marathwada||Aurangabad: Migrant workers stranded in shelter camps across the state have gradually started leaving for their homes in the spacial Shramik trains run by the Indian Railways. However, those stuck in the Marathwada region are yet to have access to these trains. Till Monday evening, there was no announcement of such a train being operated from the Marathwada region. “While the Shramik special trains have started taking stranded workers home from different parts of the country, no such relief measure has been provided to Marathwada yet. The industrial belts around Aurangabad and other parts of the region have many migrant workers who are bearing the brunt of lockdown and want to return to their homes,” he said. When contacted, South Central Railway (SCR), which caters to parts of Marathwada, said the Shramik special trains are run only on the request of the state governments. “The Shramik special trains for nominated people like migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places are being operated only on request of the state governments. Indian Railways is only accepting passengers brought and facilitated by the state governments,” Ch Rakesh, the chief public relations officer of SCR, said. He added, “Anyone looking to travel by these special trains should contact the state government authorities through their nominated helpline numbers or official channels.” There are 165 relief camps in Marathwada. Most of them are in the Aurangabad district (45), followed by Osmanabad (34), Nanded (19), Hingoli (16), Jalna and Latur (15 each), Parbhani (13) and Beed (8). As per official data, 16,682 migrants had taken shelter in relief camps in eight Marathwada districts. Labour leader Ram Baheti said a large section of these migrant workers are from the north Indian states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. When contacted, Appasaheb Shinde, the regional nodal officer for relief camps in Marathwada said that the respective states, from where migrants hail, are being contacted. “To begin with, we are planning to arrange for a special train for workers from Madhya Pradesh . The train is expected to carry around 550 workers from Aurangabad as well as those standed in Jalna and Nashik. If things work out, an announcement will be made shortly,” he said. Shinde also said a group of 36 migrants from Rajasthan was send home using private buses after following procedure. Aurangabad district disaster management officer Ajay Chaudhari said migrants taking shelter in relief camps have been provided with all help. “Besides shelter and food, migrants housed in camps are receiving healthcare as well. These beneficiaries are also counselled for psychological issues,” he said. Congress unit to bear train fare cost of migrants in Kolhapur Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil, meanwhile, has written to the station master of the Kolhapur railway station to arrange for special trains for the stranded migrants. He said that there are over 10,000 migrant workers stuck in the district due to lockdown. The minister, who is also the district Congress president, said that as per directions of party chief Sonia Gandhi, the district party unit will bear the cost of the train fare for transporting the migrant workers. “I have written to the railway administration to arrange for special trains to take the migrant workers to their destinations. The list of such workers will be provided to the railway administration soon by district collector Daulat Desai,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-shramik-train-announced-for-migrant-workers-in-marathwada/articleshow/75541566.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Social distancing lost as cops fight to keep order||VIJAYAWADA: As liquor sales in the state resumed on Monday after 43 days, tipplers flocked to liquor shops, ignoring social distancing norms. Police fought to control crowds as large numbers of people gathered in front of outlets from 9 am even as the opening time was scheduled at 11 am. Vizag, Rajahmundry, Tirupati, Tenali, Anantapur and other cities witnessed chaotic scenes after shops opened. In containment zones, liquor outlets remained closed but people flocked to nearby rural areas in hopes of buying alcohol. In Chittoor district, people from Tamil Nadu gathered before liquor outlets as the ban on sale of liquor continues in the neighbouring state. Even as social distancing was maintained in some places, women in Nellore and Vizag districts staged protests demand that liquor outets be shut down. Police stepped in and restored normalcy at some places while at others shops had to be closed down minutes after opening as controlling the crowd became difficult. The decision of the state government to increase prices of liquor and beer by 25 per cent in a bid to discourage consumption proved ineffective in view of Monday’s turnout. A senior officer with the prohibition and excise department said of the 3,500 liquor outlets in Andhra Pradesh , over 700 are in containment zones and malls, while around 2,365 were opened on Monday. Officials of the prohibition and excise department said despite the queues, sales were not high. In Vizag district, liquor worth over Rs 7 crore was sold on Monday, while in other districts sales ranged between Rs 4 to Rs 5 lakh. Liquor worth over Rs 50 crore was sold in the state on Monday. State Mahila Congress president Pedada Ramani Kumari said tipplers threw caution to the wind, violating social distancing guidelines in front of liquor shops. “There is no meaning in continuing the lockdown further as the opening of liquor outlets and the long queues for liquor will push the spread of Covid-19,” she added. “I had seen long queues in front of few liquor outlets a day after Cyclone HudHud in 2014 as people thronged to shops suspecting that there will be no liquor in the coming days in Vizag. Now, I have seen heavy rush and long queues in front of all the liquor outlets in Vizag,” said K Prabhakar, a tippler. “Circles were drawn in front of the liquor outlets to ensure social distancing. But tipplers ignored them in many places and police remained silent spectators,” he added. Minister for tourism M Srinivasa Rao urged those looking to buy alcohol to refrain from crowding, adding that the rush would come down in a couple of days. In Tirupati excise district, of the 147 liquor outlets, 31 in containment areas were not allowed to resume sale while 116 outlets were opened. In Tirupati 18 outlets were not opened, while in Puttur and Srikalahasti no outlet was opened as both towns are under containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/social-distancing-lost-as-cops-fight-to-keep-order/articleshow/75541584.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Miscreants scare away lion feasting on kill||Rajkot: A video of some people harassing a lion which is feeding on its prey went viral on social media on Monday. The mischiefmongers also made A TikTok video of their act. In the 16-second video, some people in car try to scare away the lion which is feasting on its prey by flashing the headlight at it. Out of scare, the lion leaves the prey and escapes. According to sources, the video is recorded somewhere near Kovaya village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district. Meanwhile, carcass of a five-year-old lion was found in a farm in Shetrunji Palitana division on Monday. The body was sent for postmortem in Babarkot animal care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/miscreants-scare-away-lion-feasting-on-kill/articleshow/75541616.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||64-year-old woman dies of Covid-19, 3 test positive||Kanpur: A 64-year-old woman died of Covid-19 at Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital on Monday, raising the death toll due to novel coronavirus infection to six in the district. Meanwhile, 14 fresh cases were reported from the city, taking the total in the district to 264. “One more Covid-19 death has been reported. The deceased woman, a resident of Chunniganj, having co-morbid conditions died in the ICU of Neuro-Science centre at Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital on Monday morning. She was admitted to ICU on Sunday at around 11.44pm,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. She also had hypertension and her treatment was going under Dr Kunal Sahai, associate professor, medicine department, Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college, he added. “On Monday morning, we received 118 samples from Covid-19 lab of GSVM medical college, in which a 64-year-old woman tested positive. As the patient was serious, doctors had put her on ventilator, but her condition deteriorated and she died,” said Shukla, adding that it was the sixth Covid-19 related fatality in the district. “The ICU where the woman was undergoing treatment was sanitized,” said a senior health official. The woman’s last rites were performed as per Covid protocol,” he added. A senior health official said the three new cases in district were reported from a private lab. Four persons, who were admitted to Covid-19 ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital as coronavirus suspect, died during treatment on Sunday. Their tests reports are awaited and their bodies have been sealed and kept in mortuary, the official said. One was a resident of Maharajpur area of the district, while three others were natives of Kanpur Dehat, Hamirpur and Etah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/64-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-19-3-test-positive/articleshow/75541571.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 5, 2020||Goa||Bicholim town back in business||Bicholim: Bicholim town was abuzz on the first day of the third phase of the nationwide lockdown. On Monday, almost 80% shops were open, including cloth, jewellery, hardware and electrical shops, besides essential commodities and pharmacies. Commuters faced hardship as private buses didn’t resume services despite ease in restrictions, while the KTC bus stand also wore a deserted look. Around 50 industrial units also opened on Monday, said Bicholim IDC field manager Anwar Baig. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-town-back-in-business/articleshow/75544370.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||DST to fund IIT-K for making reusable N95, N99 masks||Kanpur: Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India, under its Nano Mission, has approved funding to IIT-Kanpur for development of new, advanced, affordable and reusable N95 and N99 masks which will strengthen India’s fight to check the coronavirus pandemic in the country. An IIT-Kanpur startup, E-Spin Nanotech, founded by the institute’s alumnus Sandip Patil in association with Prof Sri Siva Kumar of department of chemical engineering and professors Thiruvancheril G. Gopakumar and Raja Angamuthu of the department of chemistry are working on the production of advanced antiviral and antibacterial affordable reusable masks. "The Centre for Nanosciences is working on development of reusable N-95 and N-99 masks. The mask, which has anti-viral and anti-bacterial property, will also give very good comfort in breathing. The product is being developed using electro-spun nanofibres. With multiple layers, it will filter the particles anything more than 100 nanometre besides giving good breathing comfort. The project, supported by DST Nano Mission, will help us to get commercialised", said Prof Siva Kumar. Sandip Patil while talking about development of reusable N-95 and N-99 masks said, "We have a patented technology to produce a nano-fibre with a capacity of one thousand metre to 10,000 metre per day. We are going to use the same technology to produce anti-viral and anti-bacterial face masks with reusuable characteristic of the order of 50,000 to one lakh masks per day." Dr Siva Kumar also informed that this is a collaborative project between the chemistry and chemical engineering department of f IIT-K||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dst-to-fund-iit-k-for-making-reusable-n95-n99-masks/articleshow/75524434.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Sakhar Sangh seeks Rs 834 cr dues from Centre||Aurangabad: The state’s apex body of cooperative sugar factories has sought release of dues from the Centre to help the millers cope with the current crisis. It said the Centre has to give over Rs 834.46 crore to 102 cooperative sugar factories in the state. The Maharashtra Rajya Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Sangh Ltd said the department of food and public distribution must settle claims that are pending for over a year now. On April 15, it had written to the PM urging him to look into the matter. Jaiprakash Dandegaonkar, chairman of the Sangh, told TOI on Monday that the Centre owed 102 Maharashtra sugar factories a sum of Rs 343.44 crore and Rs 139.32 crore towards sugar export subsidy. In addition, there were dues of Rs 267.08 crore and Rs 84.62 crore towards buffer stock subsidy for the years 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. “Sugar mills have to settle outstanding fair and remunerative price, worker salaries , harvesting and transportation dues of workers and claims of suppliers of various consumables in the sugar production process,” Dandegaonkar said. He said if the Centre clears the dues, it would help a little. “We have communicated to the PM that the lockdown has badly affected the sales of sugar to cold drinks and beverages industry, the ice-cream sector and the sweetmart and halwai shops. It has deeply disturbed the daily cash inflows,” he said. He added that even banks were not ready to finance the sugar industry because it is already under heavy debts. Dandegaonkar, who heads the Purna Cooperative Sugar Factory of Basmatnagar, said earlier, there were 165 sugar factories in the state, but only 99 factories were working in the last season. Marathwada, for instance, once accounted for 54 cooperative sugar factories and three to four private factories. But, currently, only 20 are working, though there is plenty of sugar cane available, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sakhar-sangh-seeks-rs-834-cr-dues-from-centre/articleshow/75541617.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 5, 2020||Goa||Keen to send SFX casket to Italy for restoration: Govt||Panaji: Two years after the Archeological Society of India shot down the Church’s plans to send the iconic silver casket which holds the relics of St Francis Xavier to Florence for restoration, the Church is receiving support from the government to facilitate the much-needed restoration by specialists in Italy. TOI in 2018 reported that the Mastrillian casket at the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa, which has held the relics of St Francis Xavier for over 300 years, was set to travel to Florence and brought back in time for the saint’s feast in 2019, but the plans were shelved by authorities at ASI, Delhi, who decided that the work should be done in India by its chemical branch. “The chemical branch is incompetent. They have not been able to restore paintings properly. They cannot undertake this kind of a job that involves something that is so precious, historically important and sentimental. The studios in Florence have the right equipment and their experts had agreed to restore the casket for free, and only asked India to bear the cost of transportation to and from Italy,” rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus Fr Patricio Fernandes told TOI. “The casket is the resting place of Goyencho Saib, we cannot accept a shoddy job. Now ministers and MPs who visited the basilica over the past few days have supported this,,” Fernandes added. Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar who visited the basilica on May 2 extended his help to send the casket to Italy for a year and bring it back after the restoration. Ports minister Michael Lobo also said he would hold a dialogue with authorities in New Delhi to send the casket to Italy . The last restoration was carried out as far back as in 1637, Fernandes says. A team of three experts from Italy’s Opificio delle pietre dure headed by the heritage institute’s director of restoration flew down in May 2018 and inspected the mausoleum and the silver casket after heritage lovers raised concerns over its crumbling state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keen-to-send-sfx-casket-to-italy-for-restoration-govt/articleshow/75544580.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 5, 2020||Goa||Tepid footfalls at Mapusa market||Saligao: There was lukewarm response by shoppers at Mapusa market after municipality had decided to allow only 50% of the shops to open. There were no vendors selling vegetables, fruits, etc, while the fish market and beef shops remained closed. Mapusa municipal council chief officer Clen Madeira said that market inspectors and police are enforcing the orders. “We have given strict instructions that shops dealing in non-essential items should only operate from 8am to 6pm,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tepid-footfalls-at-mapusa-market/articleshow/75544379.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||2 corona +ve women give birth to healthy babies||Kanpur:Two coronavirus positive women have given birth to a baby girl and a baby boy at the Duffrin hospital of the city on Sunday. Chief Medical superintendent Duffrin hospital Dr VV Singh told that TOI the baby girl and the baby boy both are healthy with good weight and doing well as of now. Dr Ruchi Jain and Dr Kajli Gupta, who led the team which carried out the caesarian deliveries, said the babies were born on Sunday. According to sources, with these two, coronavirus infected women have given birth to total four babies. Earlier, a woman had given birth to a baby at Duffrin hospital on April 29, was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 3. Prior to that a corona positive woman on April 30 had given birth to a baby boy at Upper India Sugar Exchange hospital of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college. The doctors said, “the mothers of the new born are fine and though they have tested positive for COVID-19. Soon after deliveries, they and their infants were shifted to a separate isolation ward.” The hospital has sent the doctor, nurses and other health workers who came in contact with them to isolation and sanitized the entire building including the operation theatre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-corona-ve-women-give-birth-to-healthy-babies/articleshow/75541640.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Two electrocuted in residential building’s lift||Rajkot: A man and a woman were electrocuted while operating an elevator in Kadam Heights Apartment on new 150-feet Ring Road on early Monday morning. The deceased were identified as Manisha Ashara (53) and Jignesh Dhol (47). It so happened that when Ashara, who was inside the lift on the sixth floor, pressed the button to go down, she received an electric shock. “Hearing her cries, when Dhol, who lived on the fifth floor, went to the sixth floor and touched the door grills to open the lift he, too, got a shock, said J V Dhola, inspector with Rajkot taluka police station. He said, “Meanwhile, the members of Ashara’s family turned off the main power supply,” Both the victims were rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where they died shortly after admission. “We will be calling a technical expert to find out how the incident occurred. If anyone is found guilty of negligence, necessary action will be initiated,” added Dhola. While Ashara’s husband Kiran Ashara is a city-based businessman, Dhol was employed in an IT firm of Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-electrocuted-in-residential-buildings-lift/articleshow/75541432.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||7 more Covid-19 cases in Godhra||Vadodara: Seven more Covid-19 cases were reported in Godhra, taking the total number of cases in the town to 47. The district has reported 50 cases so far including three deaths. Those who tested positive include a man, his son and daughter residing in Kachhiyawad locality. Another man living in in the same locality also tested positive. Two pharmacists and a man working at a hospital in Godhra were also found infected. They had come in contact with two persons who had visited the hospital for treatment before they tested positive some time back. Three municipal wards in Godhra have been declared as containment zones. The fresh cases have been reported from these zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-more-covid-19-cases-in-godhra/articleshow/75540690.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||Metro work resumes as lockdown curbs eased||Kanpur: After relaxation in lockdown by Central government for starting work, and getting district administration’s nod, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has resumed civil construction work of Kanpur Metro project while abiding by the regulations issued by Union home ministry and following standard operating procedures (SOP) approved by ministry of housing and urban affairs. The work has started at Metro casting yard and Metro depot site. On Sunday, UPMRC said construction work started on April 30 and is now going on at Metro casting yard and Metro depot site at government polytechnic. The work at both the sites is being carried out in only one shift — from 9am to 6pm. All workers, supervisors, engineers and officers are being subjected to thermal screening for entry to construction sites, UPMRC said. Metro officers are also ensuring that social distancing is duly maintained during work. All precautions are being taken against spread of Covid-19 infection including disinfecting constructions sites, vehicles and other material in use. Before the announcement of lockdown, civil construction work of Kanpur Metro project was proceeding at an extraordinary pace, but had to be halted in unavoidable conditions due to the global pandemic. Following instructions of UPMRC, contractors have made arrangements of food and shelter for workers so that project work resumes as soon as government issues instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/metro-work-resumes-as-lockdown-curbs-eased/articleshow/75524444.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||No relief to residents due to spike in corona cases in Kanpur||KANPUR : District administration has not given any relief to the residents due to the surge in number of corona positive cases in the city. Neither any shop has been allowed to open nor any new industrial unit permitted to operate till further orders. Only those units would operate which are already operational. The industrial units in rural areas have however been permitted to run and open shops of essential commodities. Construction work in the city has been allowed to begin at those sites only which are neither hotspots nor are in buffer zones, and where housing facility is existing. There is no bar in construction in rural areas District magistrate Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari said that door-to-door home delivery would continue in the city. Vendors may sell items like vegetable, fruit and grocery in lanes with mandatory rule of social distancing, but the old system would continue in hotspots and buffer zones, he said. Though the state government has decided to give some relief in green and orange zones but due to spike in number of corona positive cases in the city for the last three days, the district administration has put hold on these relief measures, the DM said. “All private offices will remain closed till next orders, and employees will work from home. Liquor shops will open from 10 am and only five persons at a time will be allowed to purchase liquor while maintaining social distancing of two yards”, the DM said. Strict action would be taken against those found consuming liquor at a public place, he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-relief-to-residents-due-to-spike-in-corona-cases-in-city/articleshow/75541690.cms||Anant Chandak
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Amid lockdown, standing panel meet on Tuesday||NAGPUR: Amid the nationwide lockdown, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) standing committee has convened a meeting on Tuesday. Unable to manage services of fire tenders with handful drivers, the NMC’s fire and emergency services department has sought standing committee’s permission to avail services of the department’s retired drivers. The department, which is already facing severe manpower crisis, is battling odds to operate 10 fire tenders deployed across the city for spraying sodium hydrochloride for sanitization purposes. The department has 42 vacant posts of drivers and it is managing nine fire stations with 63 drivers. Now, it has submitted a proposal to appoint 11 retired drivers on contract basis for 11 months. Apart from this, the civic administration will also table five proposals before the panel and they included purchase of hydraulic platform and its maintenance for five years, appointing auditor, extension to six contractual engineers on monthly honorarium basis, extension to project consultant for Nag river pollution abatement project and auction of material seized by property tax department. Congress corporators, however, termed the standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s decision of convening the meeting violation of Section 144, which prohibits assembly of four or more people in an area. The standing panel has a total strength of 16 and BJP has 13 members. “At a time when the entire nation is observing lockdown and political parties appealing people to stay indoors, how can they call a meeting? The police should take action,” demanded the corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-lockdown-standing-panel-meet-today/articleshow/75543842.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Call to open hotel bars for stranded guests in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the state government deciding to open liquor shops across Andhra Pradesh, barring red zones and containment areas, the Hotel and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh (HRAAP) requested the government on Monday to allow restaurant-cum-bars at star hotels to operate for in-house guests. A few star hotels in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada still have a few guests, mostly corporate employees, who are stranded due to the lockdown. “They can easily relax at the bars while maintaining social distancing. If they want, we can also arrange for room delivery. Our revenue is almost zero and so the government should allow us to operate the bars at least for these guests,” Prasanth Singu from HRAAP told TOI. In Visakhapatnam, around 400 guests are presently staying in 15 star hotels, while there are around 50 guests in two star hotels in Vijayawada. “We are providing masks, sanitisers, daily room cleaning and laundry services to our guests. Since restaurants are closed, meals are being given in rooms. Health officials also visit our hotel regularly to monitor the situation,” said a senior official from a star hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/call-to-open-hotel-bars-for-stranded-guests/articleshow/75541641.cms||Arpit Basu
May 5, 2020||Goa||Cos worried over exodus of migrants||Panaji: With nearly 80,000 migrant workers expressing an interest in leaving the state in the coming days, the Confederation of Indian Industry-Goa (CII-Goa) met with minister for labour and employment Jennifer Monserrate to express concern over the impact on industry. CII has urged the state government to take steps to address the exodus of workers and bring in suitable legislative amendments to ensure that industry can function. “Labour moving out is an issue and it will affect the industry, but I don’t know to what extent,” CII-Goa council chairman Blaise Costabir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cos-worried-over-exodus-of-migrants/articleshow/75544386.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||HIV+ Gujarat youth beats Covid-19, scripts rare success story||AHMEDABAD: In what is being termed as one of the country’s rare Covid-19 recovery stories, a 27-year-old HIV positive patient from Kumarkhan village of Viramgam taluka in Ahmedabad has won the battle against the highly contagious virus. What is even more startling is that the patient had a blood haemoglobin of 2.3g/dl with a low iron binding capacity and was severely anaemic. He was admitted to the civil hospital in Asarwa in Ahmedabad on April 15 and was discharged on Monday. “The patient was a challenge for our medical team at the civil hospital. He was given three blood transfusions during the 20-day stay at the hospital. He was regular in taking his antiretroviral therapy and drug during hospitalisation even before he was infected with Covid-19. But in the end it was the medical teams’ resolve and patient’s immunity and his will to survive that won the battle,” said Arun Mahesh Babu, district development officer (DDO), Ahmedabad. Sources in the civil hospital claim that the patient’s blood reports were not encouraging and there were bleak chances of his survival. However, the patient fought on. Leading infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel said that HIV patients could beat Covid-19. “In today’s medical scenario, an HIV positive person who is on anti-HIV medication is not considered immuno compromised anymore”. He said HIV positive persons, if given the right treatment and support, could beat any illness as as normal human beings. A detailed file of the patient is being prepared by the hospital as it is one of the rare cases in the country and may throw light on future research. A short video of his return to the village was released by the Ahmedabad DDO office. The patient’s family, panchayat members and village elders held a short welcome ceremony for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hiv-ve-man-beats-covid-19/articleshow/75543079.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Patients’ misbehaviour upsets medical community||Ahmedabad: At a time when the frontline warriors have been putting their lives at risk to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, some instances of patients misbehaving with them have also come to light. A leading infectious diseases specialist, who is part of the Gujarat government expert advisory committee on treating critically ill Covid-19 patients, was appalled when a Covid-19 patient admitted under him in a private hospital, refused to wear a mask. “The patient also refused to follow the other safety protocols,” said the doctor. Quite unmindful of the gravity of the situation, the patient told the medical staff that he felt uncomfortable in the mask. “He failed to realize what grave danger he was posing for the medical and para-medical staff treating him. His behaviour was appalling," said the doctor. Staff at the hospital said that the patient, who developed breathing troubles and later stabilized, was abusive to many staff members as well. In another case, a councillor from the Walled City unleashed his anger at a private laboratory personnel when he was refused a test without the prescription for the Covid-19 test. “The councillor and his aides were not ready to accept that the government rules prohibit private labs to conduct a Covid-19 test without a prescription. He started hurling abuses and threatened to ransack the laboratory and even target the staff for refusing the test. It is unfortunate that even public persons do not understand that sanctions are imposed by the government in such pandemics and the rules need to be followed," said an official of the laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patients-misbehaviour-upsets-medical-community/articleshow/75543076.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||Coop bank merger bold idea, but not practical, say stakeholders||Panaji: The state economic revival committee’s recommendation to merge all cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies met with several raised eyebrows on Tuesday. While stakeholders said that on paper the move seems like a step in the right direction, practical difficulties would thwart the merger of Goa’s cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies. Aside from the complex task of getting all shareholders of the credit societies and cooperative banks on the same page, such a merger would require legislative changes. Still further, with nearly all cooperative banks sitting on balance sheets filled with non-performing assets and accumulated losses, unless the state government committed itself to infuse a significant amount of share capital, such a move would not succeed, said bankers. One option would be for all the cooperative banks to be merged with Goa State Cooperative Bank, but with all the cooperative banks tottering on the edge, their collective financial woes could pull Goa’s apex coop bank under, said a bureaucrat . “It is practically impossible because there are so many stakeholders and each of them is doing their own thing. The value of each bank and credit society is different,” said chartered accountant and former administrator of Goa State Cooperative Bank V.B. Prabhu Verlekar. The state, which is facing a fund crunch, is in no position to infuse capital for a single cooperative bank entity. The Goa government dragged its feet in providing share capital for Goa state Cooperative Bank a few years ago and multiple requests from Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank for Rs 50-Rs 60 crores capital support were turned down. “Without making a study on the financials of all the cooperative banks how can a recommendation be made about the merger of the cooperative banks?” chairman of Goa State cooperative bank Ulhas Phaldessai said. It all boils down to political will, said stakeholders. “It is difficult for small cooperative banks to fulfil the RBI restrictions and circulars. So if all the cooperative banks were made into a single cooperative bank, it would be wonderful,” said Kishore Amonkar, managing director of Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coop-bank-merger-bold-idea-but-not-practical-say-stakeholders/articleshow/75544588.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Officials combing containment zones||Revenue and civic officials were seen combing through the containment zones to spot sources of infection.  “We have given a list of vendors who visited the Koyambedu market to districts across the state. They are all being tested along with their family members,” said J Radhakrishnan, special nodal officer for Greater Chennai Corporation. “We are testing more people so we can detect more positive cases, isolate and treat them. This is an epidemic. Do except the count to go up,” he said. The number of people tested in the state was more than 10,584 on Sunday, taking the total number of people tested so far to more than 1.4lakh. Thirty-three vendors from Villupuram, who had visited Koyambedu market recently, tested positive on Sunday. At least two dozen people on one street in Ashok Nagar tested positive. At the Thiruvanmayur market complex two vendors tested positive. At VK Pillai Street in Triplicane, 14 more people tested positive taking the total number of cases on the 2km road to 50. While 38 people from across the state were discharged, there were still 1,611 people in hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-combing-containment-zones/articleshow/75543837.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||CM: Stranded Nepalese seeking to return home must register, SOP soon||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that in the next four days, the Centre will come out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) to evacuate Nepal migrants from the state. Most of them are employed at beach shacks, fast food joints and restaurants. Sawant said that till date, 80,000 migrants have registered to leave the state. Nepali migrants residing in Goa are considered as foreign nationals, Sawant said, and that within two days the SOP will be announced by the Centre with regards to their return. He also asked Nepali migrants who wish to return home, to register themselves with the authorities. “The external affairs ministry will unveil the SOP,” he said. On other foreign nationals stranded here, Sawant said that those staying in houses, guesthouses and hotels should visit the nearby police station and get themselves registered so that the government can ascertain their numbers. To a query regarding who will bear the travel fare for the migrant labourers, Sawant said that this aspect has not yet been decided. He also said that based on the number of migrants, the railway station would be designated for departure of trains. “The state government will make arrangements to drop the migrants at the railways station,” he said. Sawant said that people of the state should maintain a watch on those who have been stamped for home quarantine. “If a home quarantine person moves out of his/her house, then that person would be forcibly kept under paid quarantine,” the chief minister said. On the state’s economic revival, Sawant said that people can submit their suggestions by logging on the website www.goaonline.gov.in. He also said that there were a lot of demands from citizens to provide a platform so that they could give their feedback to the state government. “Those who want to give suggestions for reviving the state economy can now do so,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said that dental clinics have been allowed to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-stranded-nepalese-seeking-to-return-home-must-register-sop-soon/articleshow/75544399.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||No curbs on movement of migrant workers: Govt||Gandhinagar: To reassure migrant workers that their return home will not be restricted, the Gujarat government on Monday asserted that it was in fact facilitating the travel of workers. The government said that as many as 20 trains will operate daily to take migrant workers back home. Additional chief secretary, labour and employment department, Vipul Mittra, said the Government of India’s latest notification relates to curbing the misuse of permission granted to migrant workers by people who do not fall in that category. He said that people who are not migrant workers are looking to take advantage of the announcement and travel on Shramik trains. “We are increasing the number of trains for migrant workers every day,” Mittra said. “Ten trains left in two days and 10 more departed on Monday carrying over 12,000 workers. On Tuesday, 15 more trains will leave for several states and from Wednesday, we expect to operate 20 trains per day.” The official added that all protocols prescribed by the GOI are being followed. “We prepare a list of all workers who are going to board a particular train and intimate them in advance,” Mittra said. “Those who are not in a position to purchase tickets are being assisted by local NGOs and industries. Details of every person who is travelling are shared with the host states in advance and medical screening details are also being shared.” Chief secretary Anil Mukim held a video conference with district collectors and asked them to prepare a plan for the next seven days for the movement of workers on special trains. “We have been streamlining the movement of workers in coordination with railways and various states,” he said. “The trains are being run on a point-to-point basis, and the host states are being provided details of passengers so as to enable them to make logistical arrangements upon arrival.” Ten more trains have left Gujarat carrying about 12,500 migrant labourers and other persons heading for Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-curbs-on-movement-of-migrant-workers-govt/articleshow/75543073.cms||Kapil Dave
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||Train carrying 1,200 migrants arrives from Ahmedabad||Kanpur: A special train from Ahmedabad carrying around 1,200 migrant workers native to Kanpur and nearby districts including Unnao, Kanpur Dehat, Fatehpur, Kannauj, Jalaun and Jhansi, reached Kanpur Central railway station on Sunday morning. Senior railway, RPF and GRP officials were present at the station to receive them. After the migrant workers got off the train, RPF and GRP officials escorted them to the passenger hall. They were later given water bottles and food packets. A team of health department registered details of the migrant workers and divided them into separate groups according to the districts they belonged. The migrants underwent thermal screening. Thereafter, they boarded 40 special buses of state transport department which ferried them to their respective districts. Ambulances were also parked outside the station to take suspected persons to quarantine centres and hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/train-carrying-1200-migrants-arrives-from-ahmedabad/articleshow/75524452.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Migrant workers asked to apply for permission to go back home||Trichy: Stepping in to facilitate the return of migrants, including labourers stuck in Trichy, the district administration asked interested people among 4,181 migrants to apply for obtaining permission from the Trichy collector to travel to their native, here on Monday. Trichy district administration created webpages http://nonresidenttamil.org or rtos.nonresidenttamil.org facilitating the students, tourists, labourers of other states stranded in Trichy to leave for their native places. Interested candidates can access the webpages and apply for the permission to travel. “Interested migrants applicants can make use of it,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told TOI on Monday. Going by the enumeration, the district had 4,181 people from other states, including students in institutions like National Institute of Technology, Trichy (NIT-T), labourers in sugar mill, vegetable shop, restaurants, food production units, pani poori vendors etc. The officials planned to wait for the migrants to apply in Trichy and neighbouring districts like Pudukottai and Karur because they can arrange for transportation to the people of particular state through single vehicle like bus. “The combined transportation of people from few districts would help the district administration move the migrants effectively but the plan is yet to be finalised,” an official said. The number of migrants in the district may be higher, but the district administration so far collected those numbers only. The migrants are from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Jharkhand, Assam and Bihar. An official said that the workers from West Bengal are equal in number to those from UP. As many as 700 West Bengal migrants are working in various sectors in Trichy. They are provided with food . Apart from rice, they are also given wheat. While the district administration put a system in place to send back the migrants, it is assumed that the migrants may not go back to their home state. “As most of the business establishments resume work and industries are likely to function from Wednesday, most of the migrant workers won’t opt for going to their native state,” said an official. Officials clarified that permission would not be necessary for those having their own vehicle to return to their native. They can go ahead with their travel by obtaining e-pass from the district administration as per the existing pattern. The administration also quarantined 528 labourers of Trichy who returned from Chennai, Gujarat, and Maharashtra as on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/migrant-workers-asked-to-apply-for-permission-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75543845.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Norms flouted as liquor shops reopen; police warn of action||PUNE: Liquor shops reopened in Pune district and many other places across the state on Monday, after a gap of 45 days, triggering a mad rush of tipplers at the outlets since early in the morning. People formed queues from as early as 7am though the liquor shops did not open before 1.30pm as the owners were awaiting permission from the district administration. Social distancing went for a toss and police were forced to deploy manpower to ensure that customers followed safety norms. In some areas, the shops were closed abruptly as the large crowds failed to maintain the mandatory 6-foot distance between one another. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “The police will take action against people not following social distancing norms and visiting the shops without masks. All stores, including liquor shops, will have to ensure that social distancing norms are followed by customers. We have directed police officers to close the stores where the norms are not followed.” A liquor retailer, who chose not to open his store on Monday, said, “People need not rush as liquor shops will be open till further orders are issued. If the government wants to earn revenue, they should provide security to the shops. Shop owners too are risking their lives by opening the establishments at the government’s behest.” While sale of liquor has been allowed across the state, 15 districts, including parts of Thane, Palghar, Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalna, Buldhana and Amravati, have issued notifications stating that liquor shops will not be allowed to open till May 17, the extended lockdown deadline. Bhushan Gagrani, secretary to the CMO, said the excise department had issued directives allowing all liquor shops to open, except in containment zones. “However, special powers have been delegated to district collectors under the Epidemic Diseases Act, by which they can stringent the restrictions even if the state has given relaxation by citing necessary reasons,” he added. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram passed an order on Monday approving liquor sales in non-containment areas in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural parts of the district, including opening of liquor shops and distributorship in such areas. Ram told TOI,“The huge rush at the liquor shops led to a situation where police had to close some stores. If such a scenario continues, we may have to again close the liquor shops.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham tweeted that liquor shops have to ensure social distancing norms. He warned that action would be taken against shops where crowding occurs. He urged the shops to adopt a token system with timings and arrange for sanitizers. In rural Pune, senior police officers said shops that failed to maintain social distancing have been ordered to close. In Manchar town, only two liquor shops were open. One of the shops had a half-km queue outside. The police had to resort to a lathicharge to control the crowd there. Similar scenes were witnessed in Shirur, Yavat in Daund, Bhigwan in Indapur, Bhor and Mulshi tehsils. No liquor shop was opened in Baramati town till Monday evening. Liquor shops in Nashik, Kolhapur and other places reopened late on Monday afternoon but lack of social distancing by customers who had queued up in large numbers forced them to shut soon. In Solapur city and Aurangabad, the respective district administrations did not allow liquor shops to reopen at all fearing that the huge rush would aggravate the Covid-19 situation. In Nashik city, district collector Suraj Mandhare on Monday evening ordered all liquor shops shut barely an hour after they had reopened at 3pm. In Aurangabad, the district administration did not allow liquor shops to reopen either in the city or rural areas. Those who could make liquor purchases were a happy lot. A resident of Wadarwadi in Pune bought six bottles of liquor. He said, “I was waiting since morning for the shop to open. When the shop opened, I got my liquor and also called up others who wanted to make purchases.” When middle-aged Shrikant Dave of NIBM Road came to the liquor shop on Salunke Vihar Road at 8am, the queue had already stretched to 500m. “I should be cursing myself for watching a movie until late on Sunday night and waking up late on Monday,” he said. Sagar Karanjavane, a beer shop owner in Bavdhan, said his entire stock was sold out within two hours of opening the outlet on Monday. A massive crowd gathered outside a liquor shop at Bhandarkar Road since the shop opened on Monday afternoon. “People were doing the rounds of the store since 7am. Nearly 200 people had made inquiries by 11am,” said the watchman of the building housing the store. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe, Rujuta Parekh, Mihir Tanksale & Joy Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/norms-flouted-as-liquor-shops-reopen-police-warn-of-action/articleshow/75544601.cms||Neha Madaan
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Couple takes to selling veggies to survive with five kids||NAGPUR: Juglesh Mahto, 36, and his wife Renudevi, 28, have taken to selling vegetables after the lockdown was announced, to ensure they and their five children do not starve. Luckily for them, Juglesh used to supply potatoes and onions to hotels and eateries on order earlier, so he had some experience. Struggling with his speech, Juglesh has to take his wife Renudevi along as it is difficult for him to manage the show selling vegetables for the first time. Juglesh, a native of Uttar Pradesh, has modified his bike to attach a cart at the back. He used to deliver potatoes and onions in this modified vehicle, and now it doubles up as a makeshift shop too. Before lockdown, Renudevi used to help earn additional income by working as domestic help at bungalows, but this has stopped now. Renudevi, sensing the tough days ahead, decided to join her husband in selling vegetables. However, in the process, she now needs to abandon their children, aged 11 years to five years, alone for the day as they leave home at 5am. “They eat whatever is left over from the previous day, or some NGOs spot them playing near the house in the slums and offer them food packets,” said Renudevi. The coronavirus has perilously rocked the boat of the Mahto family, residing at Bezonbagh slums. Their source of livelihood was abruptly taken away by the announcement of lockdown. Hotels and eateries, where Juglesh supplied potato and onions, have been shut, and this has taken away his daily income of Rs400-500. With no other option left, Juglesh contacted the brokers he knew, requesting them to give him some vegetables on credit to sell. “Earlier, I brought vegetables from Cotton Market but had to stop after it closed down, and Mominpura also was sealed,” he said. “Then, I got some vegetables from Nara’s newly opened market and started selling them at Jaripatka on the footpath. Police evicted me as I was on the road and there used to be crowding,” said Juglesh, who has now shifted close to Kamal Chowk. “Now, I earn Rs200-400 after waiting for the entire day,” said Juglesh. “Many times, leafy vegetables wilt in the heat and have to be discarded, leading to heavy losses. If I ever have a bad day in business, the losses are double, as most vegetables rot in this temperature and have to be thrown away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-takes-to-selling-veggies-to-survive-with-five-kids/articleshow/75543872.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Team formed to analyse pattern of poaching with unlicensed weapon in Trichy||TRICHY: A team has been formed to collect information on poaching in Trichy. The move comes after a 31-year-old forest guard was injured in theneck when an unlicensed country-made gun went off when it was dropped by a poacher he was chasing in the reserve forest in Pachamalai.. The team will inspect the forest area and give inputs on tightening patrolling by personnel in vulnerable regions. The forest guard Veerapandian had a narrow escape after the bullet hit his neck. He is undergoing treatment in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), Trichy. Veerapandian was part of a six-member team patrolling Kanapadi reserve forest in Pachamalai at night on Saturday. Realising that there was a poacher out hunting wild animals, the forest team chased him. The trespasser dropped his gun while escaping and it went off and the bullet hit the forest guard. The trespasser S Muthukrishnan, 26, from Uppiliapuram surrendered to police later. After visiting the forest guard in the hospital on Monday, chief conservator of forest (CCF), Trichy circle, V Thirunavukkarasu called for a meeting with officials in the evening. Forest officials who had earlier worked in Pachamalai gave their inputs and a strategy was formulated to prevent poaching. Thirunavukkarasu said the team will be working extensively on the ground to get details on pattern of poaching to frame strategies by the forest team. Trespassing with unlicensed weapons isn’t new in Pachamalai. A few more incidents have been reported in the recent weeks. While forest personnel have made some seizures, but the such incidents continue to happen. Sources say it is traditional livelihood for those living close to the forest to poach wild animals such as wild hare, monitor lizard and others. There is a need for joint operation from the forest and police department to curtail such incidents, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/team-formed-to-analyse-pattern-of-poaching-with-unlicensed-weapon/articleshow/75543840.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Four-hour lockdown relaxation leads to crowding across Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The four-hour relaxation, from 7am to 11am, given once in two days by the district administration for buying and selling of essential commodities and services led to hordes of people coming out on streets on Monday. Owing to this vegetable markets, grocery stores, flour mills and banks witnessed heavy rush. Meanwhile, in areas that are not connected by water pipeline people were seen getting their water stock full. City police had issued a notification on May 1 about the lockdown restrictions and relaxations until May 17. The notification stated that all shops and establishments except medical stores and hospitals will be shut in the city on all odd dates — May 3, 5, 7, 9 and so on. The notification, however, stated that on all even dates until May 17 i.e. May 2, 4, 6, 8 and so on, the purchase of essential commodities will be allowed from 7 am to 11 am. The shutdown was observed religiously across the city on Sunday. However, the entire purpose of lockdown r was defeated as people rushed to markets and shops to get essentials. Subsequently, social distancing norm also went for a toss in these areas. According to Priyanand Agle, a social worker and student of disaster management, the odd-even formula cannot work during lockdown. "If shops selling essential commodities are open regularly then the rush can be reduced," he said. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Meena Makwana said that before the odd-even plan was implemented people were moving on roads throughout the day. "Crowding witnessed on Monday morning was concerning. People will have to cooperate by making their grocery and vegetable purchases at once for at least a week," she said, adding that the notification has not been changed and it will continue to remain effective for the forthcoming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-hour-lockdown-relaxation-leads-to-crowding-across-city/articleshow/75541652.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||Laughing clubs adopt new methods to resume activities||Kanpur: The city’s laughing clubs, which had stopped their activities after the lockdown was announced , have now re-started their activities by adopting social media apps to connect with each other. Diilip Ojha, a resident of Kidwai Nagar says there are 56 members, and all of us are connected with mobile. We exchange jokes, parody and comedy scenes on mobile and laugh. “Before the lockdown, more than 100 laughing clubs were active in several parks of the city. The club members were generally old persons who used to sit together and laugh unintentionally ten to fifteen minutes daily to keep their mind free of stress”, Dilip said. “The lockdown has halted all activities of old persons as they are allowed to move out being more vulnerable to the virus”, said Ajay Kumar Mishra, a retired engineer. “I used to walk around 5 km first then go for exercise. Thereafter my friends and I used to laugh loudly on jokes narrated by one of the members”, he added. “One morning I got a call from one of the members who explained how laughing club could run through mobile phones” Ajay said. Dilip informed that around 25 members had downloaded the zoom app through which all of us are interconnected, and now all of us recite parody or jokes turn by turn and laugh, Ajay further said . According to medical experts, laughter could be a big weapon to face corona challenge. Three minutes laughter not only makes lungs strong but also develops Melatonin and Endorphin hormone which help in sound sleep and improve immune system of the body. Amitabh Gupta, a resident of the zoo area said that around 25 members were active in his club and all of them exchange jokes, parody and comedy scenes and laugh through zoom app and video chats. Abhimanyu Sachan, a resident of Barra locality said that he was a member of a group consisting of 20 persons and all used to be interconnected with each other in the morning for laughing. Ravindra Porwal, an ayurveda doctor said, “Laughter is the best medicine and it is very well proved. Therefore, people should enjoy it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/laughing-clubs-adopt-new-methods-to-resume-activities/articleshow/75524469.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 5, 2020||Goa||Delhi man dies after assault at Calangute||CALANGUTE: A 23-year-old native of New Delhi who was working as a waiter at a beach shack at Calangute died after he was allegedly assaulted by some persons late Sunday night. Calangute police said that the incident occurred at around 10pm after Sumit Jaiswal, who was working as a waiter at a shack, got into an argument with some persons who had allegedly taken Rs 2,500 from him to obtain a mobile phone for him, which was, however, not delivered. Police said the altercaton took a violent turn as a group of around 15 persons allegedly assaulted Jaiswal and his colleague Shamshad Khan Malik, 30, with iron rods and wooden sticks, causing them grievous injuries. Malik later succumbed to his injuries. Calangute police arrested 12 persons and have registered a case of murder. Further investigations are in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-man-dies-after-assault-at-calangute/articleshow/75544600.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||HC notice on plea moved by woman seeking custody of child||Madurai: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the Virudhunagar district child welfare committee (CWC) on a plea moved by a woman seeking custody of her male child, who she had given for adoption without following procedures as per law. In the petition, A Ambika, a resident of K Puliankadai village in Salem district, stated that her husband is a daily wage labourer. She stated that they had two sons and she gave birth to a third male child in October 2019. Since she developed some health issues and became bedridden after the delivery and due to her family’s poor economical status, they could not take care of their child. Her distant relative informed that a childless couple, Gomathi and Sundaralingam, who are residents of Gopalapuram village in Virudhunagar district were willing to adopt her son. Ambika stated that she handed over her son to the couple in December 2019 and the couple had helped meet her medical expenses. When Gomathi and Sundaralingam attempted to get birth certificate, they were asked to hand over the child to the CWC as they had not followed the procedures of adoption as per law. She stated that when they were called for an inquiry, Ambika admitted that though they did not follow the procedures, she had willingly given her child for adoption. She further stated that when she sought the CWC to hand over her child’s custody after she expressed willingness to take care of him, the same was denied. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking the Virudhunagar district CWC to hand her over the custody of her child. When the petition was heard on Monday, the state government informed that DNA test was taken and they are awaiting results. Hearing the plea, justice C V Karthikeyan ordered notice to the Virudhunagar CWC and the couple that adopted the child. The case was adjourned to June 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-notice-on-plea-moved-by-woman-seeking-custody-of-child/articleshow/75543854.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrant labourers hit road to be with own than starve alone||Khanna: Staring at an uncertain future and facing challenges for survival under the lockdown, 33-year-old Jagannath of Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, who worked as a labourer in Haibowal area here, has set out for his native place on his bicycle. With his baggage-packed bicycle, he pedals his way in the scorching sun, even as the sweat dripping down his face tell him how arduous his journey is going to be.Another migrant worker, 21-year-old Mukesh Kumar of Lakhimpuri, who worked at a thread making factory in Tandhari area of the city, has embarked on the journey to his village on foot with around 15 others. Carrying bag on the back, Mukesh and his travelling companions rest for few minutes after every five to 10 kilometres to ensure that they do not collapse on the way.Jagannath and Mukesh are not the only ones who, left with no source of bread earning, have made the tough choice to leave for their native places on their own. Along the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway, one can find lot many migrant workers peddling or walking their way back home in this hot weather. They feel it is better to be with the family than to stay back and starve.“Whatever money I had saved, I spent in the last one month. I didn’t get any support from government either. Now, I don’t have much with me. During Covid-19, if I fall ill, there will be no one to look after me. So I decided to go home. I have informed my family members. I have four children, including a daughter and three sons, in a family of seven persons, so now I will work there only to support them,” Jagannath told TOI in Doraha area.When asked why he did not wait for few more days, as the government has announced trains for migrant workers willing to go home, he said he does not know about it as they were not informed about it. He said around 20 of his co-workers have already left over the last few days.Mukesh, who worked and lived at the factory, said he is leaving the city now but might return after things improve. “As of now, I don’t see an end to this gloomy scenario triggered by Covid-19 and I was also not getting salary for a month. My family members also pressured me to return to the native place. We were getting food in the factory, but what about money which I need to sustain my family? So, I decided to leave. It may take me about 15 days to walk my way to my native place,” said Mukesh.His sister’s marriage was scheduled for May 6, but due to the prevailing circumstances, even that got cancelled. “My family comprising my parents, five brothers and sisters are finding it hard to survive, but we will make find some way to make some earning there only.”Another migrant worker hailing from Bihar told TOI near Khanna that the centre and state government should have made some arrangements to send them back to their native places earlier. “Many were forced to peddle or walk their way to home due to a delayed decision, which has also not been publicised properly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/migrant-labourers-hit-road-to-be-with-own-than-starve-alone/articleshow/75541688.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||7 women selected for contributions in MSME sector||Kanpur: It was a proud moment for the city when out of 100 women entrepreneurs, its seven women entrepreneurs were selected for their contribution in different fields in the MSME sector in the country. Union minster for transport and micro, small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari on Saturday announced the names of the selected women entrepreneurs at a webinar organized by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry industry (FICCI). The minister had invited the names of successful women entrepreneurs from all over country. Out of 700 women entrepreneurs, 24 were selected and recommended. The minister while announcing the names of top 100 women who have been selected said that if100 women inspired from each successful entrepreneur then around 10,000 women entrepreneurs would be prepared in the country. He also released a book on this occasion . The seven women entrepreneurs of the city who have been selected are Vaishali Biyani of Aryan Nagar for her work in the field of environment, Anjali Agarwal, a resident of Cantonment for selecting new courses from oversees universities for the last 14 years, Anuradha Varshney of Swarup Nagar for giving redimix concrete concept in the city, Righu Bhatia and Vanshika Bhatia, both residents of Kakadeo for running restaurants, Vandana Mishra of Indra Nagar, for providing training in handicraft to physically challenged girls through her NGO Prayas, Mamta Shukla a homeopathic medicine trader for giving new life to her business when it was about to close down and Vijaya Kapoor of Tilak Nagar, a jewellery businesswoman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/7-women-selected-for-contributions-in-msme-sector/articleshow/75524464.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kanpur||Liquor shops in Jhansi stay closed on first day||JHANSI: Owing to lack of adequate security and other infrastructural facilities, all the 72 liquor shops in the district remained closed on Monday despite the orders of the state government to open them from 10.00 am to 7.00 pm. Now, the administration will make adequate arrangements to open shops from Tuesday. Not knowing the fact, many of the liquor lovers who have been waiting desperately for over a month, made a beeline in front of the shops since morning but had to return empty-handed. District excise officer Pramod Goyal said, “Since the shops were closed for so many days,we were expecting huge rush. It is necessary to make adequate arrangements for security and social distancing. So, to avoid any mismanagement, we have decided to open it from Tuesday.” On the other hand, liquor shop owners are also willing to open shops as early as possible because of the loss they are sustaining. As per Suraj Talwar, a wholesaler, the average sale of IMFL in the district is of 1.17 lakh liter per month which had come to a total halt. “We are expecting that the sale will speed up in first three days after opening up and then it will come back to normal or may be less than it as people will try to stock their requirements,” he added. Rajkumar Rai, a retailer who runs two shops, said: “We were expecting to open the shops from Monday, but have now been told to reopen on Tuesday. We have already incurred heavy losses, let us hope we can compensate it in coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/liquor-shops-in-jhansi-stay-closed-on-first-day/articleshow/75541909.cms||Arindam Ghosh
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 50% jump in Covid-19 cases was in last week of April||MUMBAI: The city's Covid death graph seems to be climbing more steeply every passing day. If Mumbai registered nine deaths due to Covid-19 in March, the toll rose in April rose to 281--making up for around 40% of the country's total Covid-related deaths. Now, in the first four days of May, the city has registered 71 deaths, taking the toll to 361 since the first case was diagnosed in Mumbai on March 11. In terms of cases as well, the tally stood at 92 till the end of March. The big jump in cases and deaths began around April 7, when the city recorded over 100 positive cases in a single day. By the end of April, the city registered 6,910 cases and 281 deaths. In fact, a 50% jump in cases was registered in the last week of April. Experts fear the worst is yet to come. A ward official said from seeing 10-12 positive cases every day until a couple of weeks back, even less affected wards are recording around 20-24 new cases every day. “Most cases are either coming from containment areas or have a history of visiting one. Many have history of visiting hospitals. But, in at least 15-20% cases, we are struggling to find the source of the infection,” he said. Dr Avinash Supe, head of a seven-member committee and former KEM Hospital dean, said urban areas such as Mumbai may continue to see cases in big number through May and a peak in June. “We are expecting to see lot of cases in May with a peak in the first week of June,” he said. On the bright side, he said the cumulative death rate in the city has been registering a decrease due to a clutch of preventive measures such as lockdown and improved healthcare facilities. “The mortality rate was around 7%-8% in the beginning of April, but is now down to 4%,'' he said. Preventive measures such as screening oxygen levels of those in the 60-plus age groupcould be helping in controlling death. ``Better surveillance may have brought down mortality, but we have to remain vigilant,” said Dr Supe, adding that Mumbai’s positivity rate (around 6%-7%) is much less than in some other nations. Dr Abhay Shukla of NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, which has set up a Maharashtra Public Health Analysis Group to study the Covid crisis, said there was a window period between March 10 and March 31 to contain the infection with intensive public health measures such as identifying new patients, isolating them, tracing their contacts and carrying out a massive number of tests. ``But the opportunity was not widely utlitised. We would have seen much less transmission intensive measures were taken,’’ he said. However, he said the ``cluster of cases'' in Mumbai can still be contained. Public health analyst Dr Ravi Duggal said that while Maharashtra and Kerala were on a par in March. the southern state managed to control Covid in April while Mumbai has seen a worsening of the outbreak. The outbreak is also worsening for vulnerable groups such as healthcare workers. Dr Supe said, “An emerging challenge is that frontline workers are getting affected,” he said. At least two civic employees have died of the novel coronavirus, while nearly 100 have tested positive across municipal hospitals. Sion Hospital that has over 57 infected healthcare workers is the worst affected so far. Dr Shukla said that Mumbai, Pune and Thane districts account for 88% of the state’s cases, while the remaining 24 districts that form two-thirds of the state have just 3% of all cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50-jump-in-covid-cases-was-in-last-week-of-april/articleshow/75543866.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Landlord evicts migrant couple after they lose jobs||Ahmedabad: After losing their jobs in the lockdown, a migrant couple from UP were evicted by their landlord. A despondent Ajaykumar Jatav and his wife Shaku, residents of Rabari Colony in Amraiwadi, rushed to the Ahmedabad district collector’s office on Monday morning after they came to know that authorities were registering migrants for sending them back to their native places.But the Jatavs, who hail from Baah tehsil in Agra district, are not only worried about the government procedure, but also about how to purchase tickets or manage food.Shaku said, “We do not have any money. Last week, we borrowed Rs 1,000 from a man of our village, but that too was spent in a week. Now, we don’t know how we’d be able to return.”Both Ajay and Shaku used to work in a foundry in Odhav which closed due to the lockdown. Ajay, who was carrying an empty plastic bottle for water, and two bags — their entire property — was scared of harassment from cops.“We worked at a furnace and moulded iron rods. Jointly, we earned Rs 500 per day to survive. When the lockdown was imposed, we were told not to come to work,” Ajay said.Ajay said when his landlord came to know they’ve lost their jobs, he came and asked whether they’d be able to pay his rent of Rs 3,000 per month. “I said I was not in a position to pay money. He warned us to leave his premises immediately, or he will cause hurt. So, we left our home of six months and are on our way back to our native. But we’ve come to know the procedure is long to get registered and then get a train home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/landlord-evicts-migrant-couple-after-they-lose-jobs/articleshow/75543069.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed, Parbhani collectors refuse to take in citizens coming from red zones||Aurangabad: Collectors of Parbhani and Beed districts have sent letters to the collectors of all districts marked as red zones. The two collectors have communicated that they will neither issue no-objection certificates (NoCs) nor take in people who have been stranded in red-zone districts. The letters have been marked to the officers of Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Nashik, Palghar, Nagpur, Solapur, Yavatmal, Pune, Aurangabad, Satara, Dhule, Akola and Jalgaon districts. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka too have refused to issue NoCs to their citizens currently stranded in red-zones. The authorities’ decision to refuse NoCs to stranded tourists, migrant workers, businessmen and people who had been to their relatives’ place before lockdown, has stunned the collectors heading the red-zone districts. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “I respect their decision to not to take in their own people as they fear the spread of Covid-19 infection in their districts. We will not insist on them to take in the stranded people and will continue to make arrangements for them in our district.” He also said that the district authorities, taking a humanitarian view of what their own residents have been going through for the past 40 days, should follow the guidelines by screening people entering the districts and implementing quarantines. Echoing a similar view, Aurangabad district collector said Uday Choudhary said: “We are ready and will continue to accommodate and make arrangement for the stranded people.” He, however, added that Rajasthan has been very cooperative and has granted blanket NoCs for accepting its citizens, irrespective of them coming from a red zone or not. As a result, 817 passes have been issued to people from Rajasthan. The letter by Parbhani district collector D M Mugalikar, a copy of which is with TOI, states: “We have received the communication from the state as well as the Union government about sending the stranded people back to their respective hometowns. Still, considering the fact that your districts have been marked as red-zone, please do not send the stranded workers, tourists, devotees and students to Parbhani district.” Writing in bold and underlining the same, the letter asks the districts collectors as well police chiefs and civic body chiefs to not to issue any travel passes to people from red-zones to head back to their homes in Parbhani. The Parbhani collector has confirmed that such a letter has been issued. In the letter sent by Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar to all district collectors in the state, he has said that Beed district has been issuing passes through its official website www.beed.gov.in. Citing the policy decision taken by him as the district collector, the letter reads: “The Beed district administration, for now, has decided not to accept people from red-zones, buffer zones and containment zones.” He also cited that several applications and official communications coming from different district offices are silent on the areas or zones from where the persons want to return. The letter also asks the district collectors to ensure that a person returning to Beed should be certified that he is not returning from any such zone or containment area. Rekhawar could not be reached for his comments on the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-parbhani-collectors-refuse-to-take-in-citizens-coming-from-red-zones/articleshow/75541680.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 5, 2020||Goa||2 private buses to ply per route from today||Panaji: Private bus operators, who chose not to ply on Monday for reason of economic non viability, will now commence operation from Tuesday. The decision was taken following a meeting of private bus operators with transport minister Mauvin Godinho who proposed that the government hire their buses through the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) on a monthly basis. The bus conductor will be from the KTC, who will collect the revenue, while the driver will be from the private bus operator. The bus maintenance will be borne by the operator. “Most operators have agreed to the proposal. Others are still considering it and will revert in a day or two,” Godinho said. “Only two private buses will be permitted on each route since as we anticipate a low number of commuters,” All Goa Private Bus Operators Association member, Sudip Tamankar said. Despite the government nod to the public transport sector to resume operations from Monday, after over a month of lockdown, private buses had stayed off the roads. President of the private bus owners’ association, Shiva Kambli said that this was because it is not possible for them “to ply at 50% capacity”. There are over 1,500 buses registered under the association. The state government has imposed a 50% capacity reduction on buses with operations allowed only between 7am and 7pm. The mandatory purchasing of a thermal scanner device and sanitisers for each bus is also burdensome, bus operators said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-private-buses-to-ply-per-route-from-today/articleshow/75544414.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||‘Virudhunagar cracker units to function from May 6’||Madurai: After 42 days of lockdown, cracker units in Virudhunagar district will start functioning from May 6 with certain guidelines issued by the district administration officials.Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji told this to reporters after chairing a consultative meeting on Monday with manufacturers of crackers, safety matches and representatives from printing and textile with regard to the functioning of industries at Virudhunagar. Bhalaji said though the government had distributed essential commodities and Rs 1,000 monetary assistance to those dependent on cracker units and safety matches industries, the government had decided to permit the functioning of these industries as it would protect their livelihood. “All necessary arrangements have been made by the district administration officials to facilitate the functioning of the cracker units. Permission for buses transporting employees, to procure raw materials from areas from municipal limits would be issued by the officials,” he said. Cracker manufacturers should obtain proper permission and follow the guidelines which are to be issued by the collector, Bhalaji added. Speaking to TOI, president of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA) P Ganesan said that cracker units would commence production from May 6, as the district administration officials had assured that all necessary arrangements would be made for the smooth functioning.As per guidelines, cracker units can commence with 50% employees, sanitizers be used in buses used for transportation, masks should be provided, thermal screening for employees and social distancing be maintained, he said.“Permission has been granted for procurement of raw materials from the municipal limits for a week,” said Ganesan. He said that the collector would issue a detailed guideline on May 5. Based on this, the units will submit an application with the details of the location, number of employees. He said that since only 50% of employees can be employed, they have planned to implement turn basis to provide employment to all dependent on the industry. Ganesan thanked Bhalaji and collector R Kannan for taking steps for the functioning of the units, as it would not only safeguard the industry but would also protect the livelihood of lakhs of employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-cracker-units-to-function-from-may-6/articleshow/75543849.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 5, 2020||Goa||Shoppers scramble as Panaji picks up the pieces||Panaji: For six weeks, the road adjoining the Mandovi riverfront lined with anchored offshore casinos and cruise boats was devoid of traffic because of the national lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, however, the stretch of Dayanand Bandodkar Marg leading up to Inox multiplex saw a sudden influx of vehicles. Goa has begun easing restrictions after being declared a green zone. Panaji welcomed the moved by marking the reopening of its market after six weeks. However, night curfew, mandatory face masks in public and a ban on non-essential travel continue to be in place. Citizens manoeuvred their way through the narrow lanes of Panaji market, appearing almost as clueless as tourists attempting to figure out the city. The lockdown only reestablished the forgotten horrors of haphazard parking, lane indiscipline and jay-walking. Both parties maintained social distance and wore masks, while battling the growing heat of the Goan summer morning. Calm and patient, the queue outside food stores like Sahakar Bhandar exceeded beyond the pavement, spilling on to the road. This was as opposed to the eager beeline of buyers awaiting their turn to purchase a bottle of alcohol after liquor shops finally opened their shutters. Pharmacies and chicken shops that were the only ones functioning were now tough to spot. Their short-lived limelight was overshadowed by salons, beauty parlours, clothing stores, electronic appliance shops, and mobile phone outlets among other retail stores. The road adjoining the Inox parking and the fish market were barricaded to ensure smooth sale of vegetables, fruits and fish. People from far and wide turned up to buy the commodities while being monitored by police personnel during purchase. While the city’s biz-wizards reopened economies, humble workers like cobblers, watch repairmen and other small-time businessmen also took to their corners along the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shoppers-scramble-as-panaji-picks-up-the-pieces/articleshow/75544409.cms||Nida Sayed
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bookshops on College St reopen, face police ire||KOLKATA: Cops ordered many traders to shut their bookshops on College Street soon after they reopened their outlets on Monday morning. Most shop owners had barely finished cleaning their stores, when a team from local police station reached the spot, asking them to down the shutters immediately. The traders said they had decided to open the book shops following Centre’s guidelines to the state governments, which said bookshops everywhere, even in Red Zones, barring in containment zones, could reopen. The stretch of College Street between Calcutta University and Barnaparichay, where most bookshops are located, is a Red Zone. The association of bookshop owners is likely to speak to police on Tuesday, based on the state notification on Monday. “We read in newspapers that Centre had allowed reopening of bookshops outside the containment zones. This is the reason many of us came to College Street from far-off places to open our shops on Monday. We wanted to clean the shops and wait for buyers. The state government did not issue any order, so we thought that opening the shops would not pose any problem to us. But a few hours after we had opened the shops, cops told us to down the shutters. We have also been told not to reopen bookshops till further order comes from the government,” said Amal Basu of Swapna Book Stall on PC Sarkar Street between CU and Presidency University. Cops from Jorasanko police station said they were taken aback when they heard some owners had opened their shops on College Street. “We don’t have any order from the government to allow bookshops to reopen from Monday,” said an officer of Jorasanko police station. The government has turned several areas in the city into containment zones to prevent the transmission of the virus to other areas, where no or lesser number of cases had been reported. Many of the traders said they feared the books might be damaged with rainwater seeping into their shops. As the shops have been shut for almost seven weeks, they were apprehensive the physical quality of books could be affected. “During the lockdown so far, it rained several times. Water seeps into many shops and books can be damaged. After opening the shops, we plugged the seepage points,” said Sajal Ghosh of Promila Book Stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bookshops-on-college-st-reopen-face-police-ire/articleshow/75542868.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Scribe, mother among 15 fresh Covid cases in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A 33-year-old journalist with a local daily and his mother were among 15 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 297 in the city. The death count, meanwhile, increased to 10 with a 55-year-old man — a resident of Deolali on Beed Bypass — succumbing to the contagion at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Sunday night. Meenakshi Bhattacharya, head of department of medicine at GMCH, said the man was critical at the time of admission on Sunday afternoon. “He had pneumonia in both lungs and hypotension. He was also a diabetic for the last three years. He tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday night.” For the past few weeks, there has been a constant surge in the number of people testing positive for the respiratory disease, with most of them coming from areas like Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura, Jai Bhim Nagar, Qile Ark and Noor Colony. Of the 15 cases confirmed on Monday, the maximum (four) were reported from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar area, followed by Jai Bhim Nagar (3), Qile Ark and Puncalik Nagar (2 each), Savitri Nagar, Chikalthana, Deolai, Nandanwan Colony and Hudco N-11 (one each). The journalist and his mother were moved to the isolation ward of the district civil hospital. Of the total 297 patients, 25 have recovered and discharged so far while the remaining are being treated at the GMCH, district civil hospital and private hospitals. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said that 4,111 swab tests have been collected in the city till Monday. “Identification of source of infection of positive patients and tracing of their contacts is being carried out on a war footing by teams deployed by the civic body,” he said. “The number of cases is likely to rise over the next few days and the graph is expected to come down by May 20,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scribe-mother-among-15-fresh-covid-cases-in-city/articleshow/75541720.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Drivers urge govt to bring fuel under GST, defer EMIs||Madurai: Bringing fuel under GST ambit and deferment of vehicle EMIs for a few more months are some of the requests made by cab and autorickshaw drivers who are in a fix due to heavy restrictions on travel. Drivers attached to the Urimai Kural Otunar Thozhirsangam in Tuticorin submitted a representation to the chief minister seeking his intervention to help them get some relief till they limp back to normalcy. “By May 17 we will be under lockdown for 54 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Our livelihood is solely dependent on the travel pattern of the public. We are now struggling for our next meal and have knocked on the doors of the government,” district secretary of the association M Jayaraj said. The drivers also expressed shock and disappointment over the drastic increase in tax while the international crude oil price has hit rock bottom. They said that fuel should be brought under the GST ambit under which the highest tax rate is only 28%. They said this will give them some relief on fuel spending. The benefit too could be passed on to the customers. “It would also take a long time to revive the economy, so we want the government to defer payment of loans for our vehicles by three more months till the end of September,” they said. They also sought extension of deadline to renew licence, permits, badge till September 30 and closing down all the toll plazas across the state. The association also sought a monthly dole of Rs 2,000 and appealed to the government to permit early operation of taxis and autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drivers-urge-govt-to-bring-fuel-under-gst-defer-emis/articleshow/75543868.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||‘Amma, you are in that (Covid-19) duty, so don’t come near us’||Madurai: M Devadha, a 108 ambulance service technician in Madurai, has transported more than 30 Covid-19 positive cases in and around Madurai. The woman who lost her husband two years ago cannot control her tears when her two daughters say “Amma, you are in that (Covid-19) duty, so don’t come near us,” but takes comfort that they, aged 8 and 5, are aware of social distancing. “It’s been a month since I touched and embraced my daughters,” she told TOI after shifting a Covid-19 positive patient from Sellur to the Government Rajaji Hospital here on Saturday. By handling 46 Covid-19 suspects and positive cases so far, this technician has handled the most number of cases in the southern districts. Devadha, who joined the 108 ambulance service as a technician four years ago, had to convince her mother as she was strongly against her daughter handling Covid-19 patients. “I explained that someone has to do it and asked her what if everyone refused to handle the patients,” the technician said. Her typical 12 hour shift starts around 8am, and at times she does 24 hour shift which is followed by rest for 24 hours. She has to take two glasses of ‘kabasura kudineer’ prepared by her mother before she steps into the house after duty. Her daughters talk to her from the next room. Initially, she was afraid to handle Covid-19 patients, but she got confidence from when her ambulance pilot K Karthik Kumar, 29, who is little more experienced, and guided her to wear the personal protective equipment kit. It takes about 10 minutes to wear the kit and five minutes to properly dispose it. Handling a positive patient takes about one hour when he or she is in the city. When they are from the outskirts of the city it takes about two to three hours. After handling the patient, it takes about half an hour for the technician and pilot to fumigate the van and be prepared to handle the next emergency call. The most number of positive cases Devadha and Karthik handled in a day is seven when they shifted them from Dindigul to Karur on April 4. “Usually near and dear ones too are hesitant to come close to the patient when the individual tests positive. It is only us who accompany anxious patient in the ambulance till we reach the hospital,” Karthik said. Having handled over 40 positive patients, he said that they wish that all those whom they handled recover. “We are happy when the hospital staff tell us that the patient we brought had recovered and returned home,” he said. On reaching home after a 12-hour shift he takes a bath before stepping into his house as his seven-month-old waits for his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/amma-you-are-in-that-covid-19-duty-so-dont-come-near-us/articleshow/75543859.cms||M K Ananth
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Imtiaz Jaleel demands cancellation of ration cards of people standing at queue outside liquor shops||AURANGABAD: City MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Monday said that the ration cards of the people standing in the queue of liquor shops should be cancelled as the money reserved for feeding is used to quench their thirst. The administration on Sunday withdrew its decision to keep the liquor shops open as long queues were seen out violating social distancing norms. He also came down heavily on the state government for granting permission, Jaleel took to twitter and stated, “Did not allow a single liquor shop to open in Aurangabad. Request the government to cancel the ration cards of all those in queues to get liquor. They don’t need government ration. When they can buy liquor they can buy food too.” He also came down heavily on the state government and stated, “Shame on Maharashtra government for this decision (allowing liquor shops to operate). We were appreciating good work of CM Udhavji but all gone waste now.” He went on to allege that ‘huge money exchanged hands from powerful liquor lobby’. “Why MPs/ MLAs in other red zones allowing this game of death. Perhaps they too may be ‘bevdas’,” he wrote on his twitter handle. When TOI contacted Jaleel he said he has been demanding the closure of liquor shops, since he became an MLA. “Liquor addiction continues to be a major reason for domestic violence as well as other forms of property and body crimes. I am fighting to close down liquor shops in my constituency and save precious lives and families from getting ruined.” Since the imposition of lockdown, there has been a blanket ban on the sale and supply of liquor at shops, bars as well as hotels, not only in the district but also in different parts of the country. However, the state government has given conditional relaxation for opening of liquor shops in the state. However, Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary clarified that the blanket ban on the sale, supply, and trading of liquor in the district would continue till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jaleel-demands-cancellation-of-ration-cards-of-people-standing-at-queue-outside-liquor-shops/articleshow/75541745.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government looks for new ways to fill its coffers||NEW DELHI: With the coronavirus crisis likely to affect revenue generation, sources said the government was thinking of developing new means to fill its near-empty coffers. While other economic activities are unlikely to peak anytime soon, some earning through additional taxes and cess may help the government to meet regular expenses and continue important schemes and projects, they added. The AAP government has already imposed 70% special corona fee on maximum retail price of all categories of liquor sold through the retail stores. While partially lifting the restrictions, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that Delhi’s financial position was in a mess. Delhi government in its budget for 2020-21 projected to collect Rs 44,100 crore as tax revenue though GST and VAT, excise, stamp duty and registration of new vehicles. However, it barely managed to earn Rs 350 crore, which was less than 10% of its earnings in April 2019. “We don’t see our earnings to increase in this quarter, while the revenue collection in the next quarter may also remain sluggish,” said a senior Delhi government official. Sources confirmed that the government might not have money in its coffers to pay salaries and wages to its employees if the situation continued. According to officials, Delhi government pays about Rs 750 crore as salaries to its employees every month and an additional Rs 200 crore as wages to contract workers spread across the departments. It also spends nearly Rs 300 crore on other expenses. The government will need at least Rs 1,100-1,200 crore a month to keep the basic machinery running. “The government can survive for a couple of months with the surplus of the last financial year. In fact, the government pays the first month of salaries and for sundry expenditure from the surplus amount every year as the revenue collected from various sources is available only from the second month of the financial year. But it will have to start getting revenue from other sources to keep it afloat,” said another official, requesting anonymity. The state government had a surplus of Rs 4,300 crore from the last financial year, which, sources confirmed, is enough only for the first quarter of the financial year. Of Rs 65,000 budget, the AAP government has set aside Rs 48,070 crore as revenue expenditure, which goes into establishment expenses, committed liabilities and to improve health and education facilities, and Rs 16,930 crore as capital expenditure for developing infrastructure and build assets. Officials said while it will be easier for the government to postpone capital projects, a majority of revenue expenditure will have to be made to run a welfare government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-looks-for-new-ways-to-fill-its-coffers/articleshow/75543864.cms||Atul Mathur
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||21,500 sent to home states in 3 days||Gandhinagar: The state government, said on Monday that 21,500 migrant workers have left Gujarat by 18 trains in the past three days. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “21,500 workers have been successfully sent to their respective homes via special labourer trains in the last three days. Seven trains were arranged from Surat to Odisha, along with one train each for Jharkhand and Bihar. From Ahmedabad, six trains have left for Uttar Pradesh and three trains to Bihar. One train each from Vadodara, Palanpur and Nadiad have left for Uttar Pradesh.” He added that the state government will arrange more trains for migrant workers in coordination with the central government. Migrant workers are required to provide their details to the concerned district collector on the 1077 helpline number. There are a number of jewellers from various parts of Gujarat such as Botad, Amreli, Bhavnagar, who are working in Surat. The government is deliberating on ways to ensure that they reach their native place in a safe manner, the statement said, adding that the matter is curently under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21500-sent-to-home-states-in-3-days/articleshow/75543067.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||KTC buses begin ops, but citizens prefer own vehicles||Panaji: Even though public transport started on Monday with the operation of Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) buses running with up to 50% capacity, citizens who had largely been self-reliant through the lockdown took to the streets in their personal vehicles. The KTC buses only saw a good response in the morning and evening when commuters travelled to work, and back. The bus service saw a poor turnout of passengers during the non-peak hours. “A total of 153 long buses and 25 shuttle buses were dispatched on Monday from the KTC Panaji depot. Social distancing was maintained on the buses and each commuter was scanned with a thermal screener before boarding the bus,” an official said. Private buses, however, stayed off the roads on Monday. “We have asked the private bus owners to restart their operations with 50% capacity, but they have been considering the economic viability of the same,” transport director, Rajan Satardekar said. Taxis were also given a green signal to ply. However, being stationed outside the Goa airport, railway stations and hotels, most of them didn’t anticipate a lucrative day for business since they mainly depend on tourist clientele. Motorcycle pilots are awaiting a written order from the government. “There is no clarity from the regional transport offices on whether pillion riding is allowed,” said Suresh Thakur, president of the Goa motorcycle taxi rider’s association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-begin-ops-but-citizens-prefer-own-vehicles/articleshow/75544419.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||11 booked in Amreli for carrying dead||Rajkot: The Amreli police on Monday booked 11 people who had entered the district from Surat bringing along a dead body for cremation. The people in private vehicle came without any valid pass from Surat administration, said police.According to the primary information, the vehicle was intercepted in Vijpadi checkpost under the jurisdiction of Savarkundla rural police station. There were 11 people and dead body of one Kuvarben Hamirbhai, a resident of Chakrava village of Khambha taluka. According to police, the people were persuaded by police to perform the last rites in Surat itself. However, they did not agree and somehow started for Amreli without anyone stopping them in the journey.As per rules, Amreli police were required to take medical opinion before the cremation as well as the medical screening of the 11 persons.Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai said “We have to follow the protocol and procedure set for Covid-19. The 11 people were booked under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and they have been quarantined in a government facility.”The cremation was done in Amreli itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-booked-in-amreli-for-carrying-dead/articleshow/75541742.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Ban on travelling to and from city||Nashik: Even though lot of relaxations have been given for the third phase of the lockdown, the district administration has still imposed ban on travelling to and from Nashik city — categorised as Red Zone. Only those engaged in essential services have been exempted from this rule. In the district, Nashik city along with Deolali Cantonment Board, Malegaon, Niphad, Chandwad, Sinnar, Yeola and Nandgaon fall under the red zone given the presence of Covid-19 patients. Talukas like Igatpuri, Trimbakeshwar, Peth, Surgana, Kalwan, Baglan, Deola, Dindori and remaining part of Nashik taluka where there has been no Covid-19 case for the past 21 days have been included in orange zone. “Movement of people in red zone has been completely stopped except for those involved in essential services. This implies there will be no movement of people in all the areas coming under this category," district collector and chairman of district disaster management authority (DDMA) Suraj Mandhare said. “There is also ban on free movement of people from one taluka to the other but allowed with permission if both the talukas fall in orange zones. Only people from orange zone can travel to other places, but not without permission," he added. Another district administration official said that movement of every person will be facilitated by tehsildars of that respective area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ban-on-travelling-to-and-from-city/articleshow/75541734.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 5, 2020||Kochi||Trains for guest workers get red signal from other states||Kochi: The special train services carrying guest workers to their respective states came to a grinding halt in the state on Monday. The state government and railways operated only one train and cancelled five trains on Monday as the respective state governments flagged down the trains temporarily. A special train carrying guest workers to Hatia in Jharkhand was operated on Monday night from Aluva after it was cancelled in the morning and the passengers sent back to their camps. The police had to look for the passengers and inform them about the rescheduled train service to Hatia. The train, scheduled on Monday, for sending Bihar guest workers to Katihar from Alappuzha was cancelled. District collector M Anjana said that the train will leave Alappuzha before May 8. On Monday morning, guest workers from West Bengal waited at Perumbavoor police station and at Bengal Colony in Vazhakulam for KSRTC buses to take them to Aluva railway station. The approval from the Bengal government came only at 3pm. The train was rescheduled to depart from Aluva on Monday night. The district administrations were getting ready to operate five other trains from Kannur, Kozhikode, Tirur, Ernakulam and Alappuzha to Bihar and West Bengal on Monday. But Bihar and West Bengal governments refused to receive more guest workers from Kerala as they had already received a large number of passengers from other states and they needed to arrange more quarantine facilities to accommodate the inbound people. Ever since special train services began from Kerala, police stations have been witnessing huge footfalls of guest workers to enquire about trains to their states. Three special trains were planned from Palakkad railway division and one from Thiruvananthapuram division to Bihar on Monday but all of them were cancelled. It is expected to resume on May 8 once the Bihar government gives the go-ahead. “We were trying to send two trains to other states on Monday. But they are not willing to take more. Bihar says they may allow trains to operate from Kerala Tuesday onwards. On Sunday, we sent five trains to Bihar and they say that the state does not have enough facility (to quarantine people) since they receive people from other states too,” said a senior official from home department. The Odisha government too raised the same issue with Kerala. Kerala plans to operate five special trains per day to carry guest workers willing to go back to their states, till May 11. A total of 11 special trains were operated from Friday to Sunday night from Kerala to Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/trains-for-guest-workers-get-red-signal-from-other-states/articleshow/75540380.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Social distancing goes for a toss as shops reopen in city||Nashik: Administration announcing relaxation in rules for opening of standalone shops across the district — except in containment zones and areas under the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) — saw people coming out in large numbers and flouting the social distancing norm.As per new directive, shops and establishments are allowed to function with only 33 per cent of the employees. "This is a welcome step to see the small shops opening. I wanted to repair my mobile phone and was waiting for relaxation to be announced," Sudhir Sontakke, a resident of Cidco, said.But there were many others who expressed displeasure over the closure of the market places. "We were told that markets will open. I went to MG Road only to find that the shops were closed. They say Nashik is in Red Zone due to which markets will remain closed," Sangita Thorat, who is currently working from home, said.Since morning a large number of people thronged the streets with some visiting the doctors, while others reached out to the shops to buy electronic and electrical goods. The maximum crowd, however, was witnessed outside liquor shops.Owing to the number of Covid-19 positive cases, Nashik city has been categorized as red zone along with Deolali Cantonment Board, and six talukas."We fail to understand why people rushed to the streets and markets when there were no orders about opening of the markets, malls and shopping complexes. Even grocery stores were flooded by people who did not care about social distancing, wearing of masks and personal safety all day long," Prafullakumar Sancheti, an office-bearer of traders association, said."People should be reminded that the relaxation was only for standalone shops in residential colonies and not market places. This has only added to the fear of spreading the disease at a time when we are still finding to get hold of the outbreak. Hope the situation does not grow bad from here. Today (Monday) liquor shops were opened and closed within few hours. If things fail to improve we will have to close down the city again," district collector Suraj Mandhare said.Things were comparatively better in remaining parts of Nashik taluka and eight other talukas that are included in the orange zone."The markets opened up for small period on the first day. The main rush was for agriculture-related goods and equipment owing to the kharif crops. But absences of taxis did not allow people access the market places," Sakharam Gavit, a resident of Surgana, said.Meanwhile, Igatpuri, Trimbakeshwar, Peth, Surgana, Kalwan, Baglan, Deola, Dindori and remaining part of Nashik taluka where there is no presence of Covid-19 patient during the past 21 days have been included in the orange zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-shops-reopen-in-city/articleshow/75541762.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 5, 2020||Goa||Mining-ravaged Surla panchayat resolves to revive agriculture for sustainable economy||KERI: The mining-affected village of Surla is planning to turn back to agriculture and horticulture to better their financial situation. The directorate of higher education along with the Goa institute of public administration and rural development (GIPARD) has decided to introduce their ‘economic revival plan for local bodies in the state of Goa’ to tide over the adverse financial situation created by Covid-19 pandemic. Before mining activities began here, Surla was predominantly an agricultural and horticultural land. For ages, the tribal and non-tribal population was engaged in ‘sord’ (rain fed) and ‘vaigan’ cultivation(irrigated winter agriculture) and also horticultural crops. However, with the onset of mining activities, not only was the ground water table affected but accumulation of mining silt in the agricultural fields has resulted in losses to farmers. Mining companies took steps to compensate the affected villagers as per the directives of the high court. At the meeting, which was coordinated by Vishal Advaikar, a professor from the government college of Khandola, Surla sarpanch Krishna Bayenkar said, “Our panchayat is agro-based and has natural sources of irrigation water. We realised that if agriculture is not revived, our present and future will be threatened. We have decided to chalk out a plan for the sustainable development of our areas.” The village panchayat is the first in Goa to get the government to notify ‘Purvatali Rai’ as a heritage site. Subhash Fondekar, panch member, said, “ If this plan is implemented properly by taking our villagers in confidence, we are hopeful of achieving success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-ravaged-surla-panchayat-resolves-to-revive-agriculture-for-sustainable-economy/articleshow/75544604.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 5, 2020||India||India’s recovery-to-death ratio for Covid-19 improves to 90:10||NEW DELHI: The outcome ratio — which is the ratio of recoveries and deaths — for Covid-19 has improved to 90:10 now from 80:20 on April 17, indicating better clinical management of patients affected with the virulent infection while 1,074 patients were cured in the last 24 hours, the highest number on a single day, the health ministry said on Monday. Official data till 5 pm on Monday showed a total of 42,836 confirmed Covid-19 cases and of these, 29,685 were still active. While 11,761 cases have been cured and discharged, the death toll has increased to 1,389. At present, the total recovery rate is 27.52%, opposed to 13.06% on April 17. “Each and every death is a concern. Therefore, it is important that we develop deeper understanding of Covid-19 treatment and focus on how we can improve this outcome ratio,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said while adding that the country would have to adjust to a new normal. The doubling time of cases has slowed to 12 days, an improvement from 8.2 days around a fortnight ago and 3.4 days before the lockdown. However, the government reiterated that there was no room for complacency and state governments and people needed to follow social distancing and other norms along with restrictions even as the lockdown is being eased in a staggered manner in some parts of the country. “In earlier pandemics, it has been observed that while norms are relaxed when social mobility is allowed, if restrictions are not followed properly, then suddenly the transmission rate may go up,” Agarwal said. He emphasised that states must ensure rigorous containment measures, so that the case load remains low. “They must also ensure effective case clinical management while focusing on infection prevention and control,” he added. Highlighting that India was “transiting into a new normal”, the government said everyone must act responsibly with easing of lockdown. “It is important that as lockdown eases, we should follow protocol and guidelines related to physical distancing, follow preventive measures like hand hygiene and environmental hygiene and deal with Covid-19 by being careful, aware and alert.” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-recovery-to-death-ratio-for-covid-19-improves-to-9010/articleshow/75544747.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Flood of calls from migrants sends collectors scurrying for cover||AURANGABAD: District collectors from Marathwada and other places in the state have been facing a tough time answering calls from migrant workers seeking to travel back to their native places ever since the state disaster department put their names and contact numbers online on April 30. When contacted by TOI on Monday, a number of collectors said that they obtained alternative mobile numbers and passed them to the officials in their districts, so that the on-going Covid-19 related communication and exercise do not take a hit. Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary confirmed receiving countless number of calls since the list of contact numbers went public. “We are here to work for the people. However, it is not possible to answer and respond to hundreds of calls in a short span,” he said. Choudhary said that he has been informing the migrants, through messages, about the details on how to apply for travel passes. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Getting innumerable calls from migrant workers but not being able to answer due to work at hand is a moral dilemma for me. My phone crashed due to thousands of calls, following which I started using an alternative number for responding to the communications from CMO and other important offices.” He informed that he had to make public appeals and establish control rooms with independent numbers, so that migrant workers’ queries are answered and also to reduce the number of calls on his number Osmanabad district collector Deepa Mudhol Munde too has been receiving innumerable calls from people seeking to travel out of the district. “For those sending WhatsApp messages, we are responding. However, as a solution to the large number of calls, we started a control room and published the information through social media and mainstream media,” he said. A woman district collector in the state said, on condition of anonymity, that she was not only receiving genuine calls from migrants on her mobile phone but also unwanted messages such as ‘Madam, I am your big fan’. She refused to elaborate. A senior revenue official said that Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar ended up getting 2,000 missed calls while he was busy in a review meeting. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Itankar could not be reached for comment. When this reporter tried calling other district collectors, their phones were found switched off. One of the collectors, however, justified that due to continuous calls, batteries of mobile phones are getting discharged. “We do understand the plight of the stranded people. However, we strongly feel that it was irresponsible on the part of the authorities to make the contact numbers of district collectors and divisional commissioners public,” said a collector, who had to share his family member’s number with the authorities in his district to avoid any communication gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/flood-of-calls-from-migrants-sends-collectors-scurrying-for-cover/articleshow/75541784.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Health staff shortage hits Malegaon surveillance||Nashik: With number of Covid-19 cases rising exponentially in Malegaon town, the health survey activity being carried out by the administration to detect people showing symptoms of this respiratory disease is taking a hit for the want of more health workers and doctors. On Monday, eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of such cases in the textile town to 331. Seven of the eight positive cases reported on Monday are police personnel. "The situation is grim in the densely populated town of Malegaon which has reported 331 positive cases of the 371 found across the district. The residents of the town are unaware about social distancing; hence, more intense and repeated health survey is required to be carried out for which we require manpower," a senior health official said, adding that they need around 100 health workers and 40 doctors. The density of the town is 16,000 people per sqkm while that of the state is 440 per sqkm. Adding to it is the ignorance of people regarding health, cleanliness and social distancing issues. When health teams go to a particular area for carrying out a survey they are hardly welcomed. Besides, it has been found that in some families members do not disclose their travel history. "At times repeated surveys have led to people disclosing the facts. This takes a toll on the health of surveyors as well. Hence, we need more people for deeper penetration, repeat and effective house-to-house active as well as passive surveillance," the official said. He added that manpower was also required to start a Covid Care Centre (for mild symptoms) and Covid Health Centre (for moderate symptoms) for which they require a staff of 90 people collectively in Malegaon West area. "In Malegaon East, we have facilities, but in the west we are unable to open the two facilities due to lack of manpower even though infrastructure is available. Currently, the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) is also carrying our recruitment for 977 vacancies. Until that is available, we need people who can help us run the facilities on urgent basis," the official said. As far as facilities are concerned, another official associated with the arrangements said they have enough physical infrastructure given the situation that 50 percent of the beds in the quarantine as well as the Covid Centres and Hospitals are still vacant. "We have enough beds for time being as occupancy is about 50%. We are still taking acquiring more facilities to increase the capacity so that we are not caught surprised in case the numbers increase further," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-staff-shortage-hits-malegaon-surveillance/articleshow/75541795.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Outfits give food, ration to needy||MADURAI: Many organisations have been working tireless to reach out to the needy in the wake of the lockdown. Dr Ambedkar Cultural Academy (DACA) has provided dry rations to 1,000 families in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram districts. M Vargheesh Antony, director of DACA, said that the organization has been conducting evening study centres and women self-help groups in 200 remote villages in southern districts. The organization has stepped into welfare measures as it came across people suffering owing to the lockdown, Vargheesh Antony said. Madurai chapter of the Seva Bharati has distributed more than one lakh food packets during the lockdown. Apart from food, dry rations, masks and kabasura kudineer were also distributed. RSS Madurai city president N Srinivasan said that they have been distributing food to people at the Government Rajaji Hospital and other hospitals, transgenders, disabled people, abandoned persons in the city for the past 40 days. “We distribute 2,700 food packets every day,” he said. Dry ration kits consisting rice and groceries have been distributed to 5,388 people, mostly labourers. They have also reached out to 55 families of blind people and 118 families of people with disabilities. The organization has also handed over 1.15 lakh masks and distributed kabasura kudineer. So far, it has served the decoction to 54, 000 people, Srinivasan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/outfits-give-food-ration-to-needy/articleshow/75543876.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Medical certificates from Maharashtra won’t be enough||PUNE: Migrant workers applying for travel from Pune and Mumbai to other states may face a hurdle as some states want a Covid-19 test for all workers instead of the medical certificates that have uploaded on the web portal for application of travel passes, Pune district administration officials said.  “We have 40,000 workers and we cannot test all of them,” the official said. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that only if permissions are granted from the states they have applied for will the movement be allowed. “There is no need to panic. We are starting construction activities and the workers in non-containment areas can work and employers will have to pay their salaries,” he said. District officials said some states would not prefer movement of workers from red zones such as Pune and Mumbai to their green zone areas. Additional chief secretary and officer in charge of the migrant workers and stranded people Nitin Kareer told TOI that states had issued such orders but were told to withdraw them. The workers should be allowed to travel with medical certificates as per the MHA guidelines, he said. However, officials communicating with various state officials said there is apprehension about the permissions. “Unless they grant us approval we cannot let them travel,’‘he said. Ram has appealed to the employers to ensure that those staying on rent be allowed to extend their payment for another month. He said the workers should not travel to get these certificates. “If they are in a group, the district administration will arrange for a doctor to do the needful. They should not crowd outside hospitals. They may face strict action if they do so. Police stations have told representatives of workers to apply in groups rather than as individual applications. As of now, the state has not made any arrangement for travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/states-demand-covid-19-tests-for-migrant-workers-from-maha/articleshow/75544433.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 5, 2020||Goa||Clam harvesting halted at Chicalim to end exploitation||Panaji: To conserve and boost bivalve resources, Chicalim panchayat’s biodiversity management committee (BMC) has decided in-principle not to allow harvesting of clams (tisreo) near Vareg island during this season. The committee took the decision at a meeting on Monday with the locals, who have been traditionally extracting bivalves for decades. The Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) has been informed about the decision and its member secretary Pradip Sarmokadam and marine experts are expected to hold another meeting. “Considering that clams have re-emerged after four years, we have decided it would be best to leave them untouched,” Chicalim BMC chairman Rui M Costa Araujo said. Four years ago, a bumper crop had boosted bivalve production in the area. “But the people exploited and harvested clams beyond sustainable level. If left untouched, there are chances that window pane oysters may also rejuvenate at the site,” Araujo said. Chicalim is perhaps the last habitat of the window pane oysters in Goa. The highly endangered bivalve has been included in Schedule IV of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Initially, the BMC was considering opening the site only to locals in a bid to sustain their livelihood. But since the lockdown has been extended and managing the clam gatherers would be a difficult task, the committee decided against the relaxation. During the last few days, Vasco police has virtually sealed the site for scores of clam gatherers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clam-harvesting-halted-at-chicalim-to-end-exploitation/articleshow/75544606.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 5, 2020||Goa||Special train from Goa to take a while||Margao: Migrant workers queued up outside panchayats and municipalities in South Goa on Monday, seeking to register themselves for travel back to their home states. Officials, however, said it would be some time before the first labour special train departs from Goa as the data collection exercise had begun only recently. Sources said information collected from the workers would be shared with the receiving states, which will get in touch with their people stranded in Goa. Many had even queued up outside the South Goa collectorate in Fatorda for the purpose, on Monday. However, as no such facility has been set up there, they headed to the Margao municipality where they found no help either. South Goa collector Ajit Roy said stranded migrants needn’t visit the collectorate or the taluka offices for registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-train-from-goa-to-take-a-while/articleshow/75544425.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Theatre owners against online release of films||KOLKATA: As the Multiplex Association of India (MAI) called for unity on Monday to ensure exclusive theatrical window release of movies, Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitors’ section of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) requested producers not to release their movies on OTT (Over the top) platforms, fearing that such a move will force the existing single screens to shut down in Bengal after the lockdown is lifted. The chairman has also requested the state government to grant permission to hall owners so that they can travel to their theatres for ensuring regular maintenance of digital projectors, sound systems, generators and online ticket machines. Before the lockdown was imposed, the number of functional theatres in the state had come down to 16. On January 23, Talkie Show House — the last of the single screen theatres in eastern India to have screened the glories of both Hollywood and Indian movies in the silent and sound era — bit the dust. It was the city’s first single screen theatre that was shut down in 2020. The next blow came with the closure of Roxy on March 12. Uncertainty looms large for all existing single screen theatre owners while the news of negotiations regarding OTT release of new movies during the lockdown adds more to it. Saha described the move as thr last nail in the coffin, saying, “At the turn of the century, Bengal had 800 single screen theatres. Now, we have 225. If films are released on OTT during the lockdown, single screens will become dinosaurs in Bengal.” Staying at home, Saha added, might ensure that Covid-19 doesn’t kill those associated with movie exhibition. “But this lockdown is killing their livelihood. If new Bengali movies opt for theatrical releases, it might as well sound the death knell for all of us,” he rued. Arijit Dutta, owner of Priya, understands the plight of single screen owners too well. But he also feels for producers who want to cut losses. “I don’t see single screen theatres opening immediately after the lockdown is lifted. I can understand the fear of producers who have made medium budget movies. They will only get a show or two when theatres reopen and might not be able to recover the costs soon. Meanwhile, exhibitors like us are worried because once people get used to watching movies on OTT, it will be difficult to woo them back to theatres. We have to find a middle path so that we can survive,” said Dutta. Suranjan Paul, owner of Minar, Bijali and Chhabighar, said the option of OTT releases that bypass the theatrical window is an outcome of “crisis-thinking”. “That will need recalibration of fees of stars and satellite rights of movies. Also, the feature films might not be able to compete with the production values of international web series. If they have fresh content, they will return to our theatres,” Paul added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/theatre-owners-against-online-release-of-films/articleshow/75542930.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 5, 2020||Goa||SGPDA fish, veggie mkts set for reopening||Margao: Following the reopening of the new municipal market and the Gandhi market in Margao, the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) at an informal meeting of its members held on Monday, took a decision to open its retail fish market as well as fruits and vegetables markets from Tuesday. The vendors will be allowed to ply their trade from the markets on the condition that all the vendors will mandatorily wear face masks and ensure that social distancing is strictly followed in the markets, SGPDA chairman Wilfred D’Sa said. “The vendors will have to give an undertaking to the SGPDA that they will wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms. Those found violating this condition will not be allowed to carry on their trade. This will be made very clear to all the vendors,” D’Sa said. Earlier in the day, a group of vegetable vendors and dry fish sellers met D’Sa urging him to open the markets. As regards the fruits and vegetable market, D’Sa said that the vendors have been told to open half the total number of shops every alternate day and keep the other half closed, with a view to reducing crowding and facilitating social distancing. “They have also been told to remove the extensions done to their shops which extend upto the passages. Dry fish sellers will also be allowed to sell their stock,” D’Sa said. The markets were kept open on Monday to facilitate their sanitisation, it was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sgpda-fish-veggie-mkts-set-for-reopening/articleshow/75544422.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BSF headquarters partially shut after positive case||NEW DELHI: A day after CRPF headquarters were closed for sanitisation due to two Covid-19 positive cases, BSF headquarters in the same CGO Complex too was partially shut after a head constable attached to a senior officer tested positive. Meanwhile, another BSF driver who drove the escort vehicle in carcade of the inter-ministerial central team in Kolkata has tested positive for Covid. He had reported ill on April 30, tested for Covid-19 and his result came as positive on Sunday. Around 50 of his contacts have been quarantined and made to take the test. The results are awaited. Back in Delhi, a head constable of BSF who is on the personal staff of a senior officer was found Covid-19 positive on Sunday night. He had last attended office on Friday and was working on the 2nd floor of BSF Headquarters. Around 5-6 of his primary contacts, including the senior officer to whom he was attached, have been quarantined and will be tested for Covid-19. His secondary and tertiary contacts are also being traced. With 12 fresh infections, the total number of Covid-positive personnel in the BSF is 66 so far, with 41 cases in Delhi, 24 in Tripura and 1 in Kolkata. On Monday, offices on the first and second floors of the BSF headquarters were closed as a precautionary measure. The sanitisation was undertaken and as per protocol, the area will be closed on Tuesday as well, though normal functioning should resume on Wednesday. Meanwhile, two more men of the 31st battalion of CRPF in Mayur Vihar have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bsf-hq-partially-shut-after-ve-case/articleshow/75543880.cms||Bharti Jain
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Chaos is back on city roads||Ludhiana: On the first day of curfew relaxation, rules were thrown out of the window. Even as the administration had allowed only essential items’ shops to open from 7am to 11am, stores of non-essentials, like cosmetics, readymade garments, electronics, paint, and ice-cream parlours, were also open on Monday. The administration had allowed residents to go for essentials’ shopping without a pass, but on foot. However, a big number of vehicles were seen on the city roads. At 7am, people started coming out of their houses, and there was a rush of cars, scooters and motorcycles on the roads. At majority of the checkposts, police did not even stop the violators. The rush and chaos at Sabun Bazaar in Old City was redolent of the past days. Not a single cop was deployed there to check the violations. Besides, pickup vans and handcarts were also seen. The TOI reporter took a round of the city from 9am to 10am, and witnessed traffic chaos also at Shingra Cinema Road, Samrala Chowk, Dandi Swami Road, near DMC Hospital, Jagraon Bridge, Arun Jaitley Chowk, Hero Bakery Chowk, Old Sessions Court Chowk and Haibowal road. Though the police personnel were deployed there, they were busy easing the traffic chaos rather than booking and challaning motorists. Shops of garments, cosmetic, optics and electronics were open at many places. After 11am, majority of the shops downed shutters. A resident of Gaushala Road said, “I had come to Dandi Swami Road to purchase essentials. After a long time, I witnessed heavy traffic jam at Dandi Swami Chowk. An ice-cream parlour on this road was also open. The police did not stop me even as I was in a car.” Another resident of New Harbanspura said, “The traffic chaos at Sabun Bazaar was like there was no lockdown. Many pick-up vans, cars and two-wheelers were there. It was a complete mess. No cop was deployed there.”Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “We urge residents to follow rules and don’t force us to be strict. FIRs will be lodged against violators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chaos-is-back-on-city-roads/articleshow/75541772.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 5, 2020||Madurai||A bridge for donors to reach the old, destitute & orphanages||MADURAI: Arumugam (name changed), a carpenter from Sadasiva Nagar in Anna Nagar, ran out of essentials he had stocked a few days ago. With no money left he was clueless how to feed his family of eight. When members of Padikkattugal, a city-based youth forum, came to know about the family’s plight, they made an appeal on social media on his behalf. A sponsor, who wanted to help the needy family directly got in touch with members of Padikkattugal. He transferred Rs 4,000, which would help the family with food for the next few weeks, to Arumugam’s bank account. Volunteers have reached out to more than 300 families, with essentials worth lakhs of rupees, who were in dire need of help during the lockdown. Each family has been given a dry ration kit worth Rs1,000 - Rs1,500 consisting 10kg rice, dal, cooking oil and masala packets. Rag pickers, elderly people and destitute are the main beneficiaries. They have also been helping six orphanages and old age homes with dry rations and other essentials. NGOs running such homes are also under pressure as donations and sponsorship of materials have dried up during the lockdown. In some cases, they have facilitated direct cash transfer to beneficiaries from sponsors. Padikkattugal was started eight years ago by a group of college going friends. They have been helping orphanages, old age homes and children to continue studies. It has got 50 volunteers and out of them a dozen volunteers are working tirelessly to help the needy during lockdown. M Kishorekumar, founder of Padikkattugal, said there are different types of people who come forward to help others. “While some would purchase materials and ask us to deliver to the needy, some would provide money. Some directly help the needy with money through bank transfer. We facilitate all sorts of help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/a-bridge-for-donors-to-reach-the-old-destitute-orphanages/articleshow/75543883.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Migrants crowd police stations, hospitals for travel pass & fitness letters to reach home||PUNE: Migrants workers stood in serpentine queues on Monday at police stations to fill the travel form and waited at government hospitals to get fitness certificates to apply for a travel permit. Many migrant workers took to the social media over lack of clear instructions on where to get the medical certificate and if private doctors can issue them. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said any registered medical practitioner (MBBS, BAMS) can check for flu symptoms and issue a fitness certificate. These certificates are not to be confused with Covid-19 tests, he added. Uttar Pradesh was the destination for most people with 4,048 applications submitted on Monday, followed by Bihar at 3,810 and West Bengal with 1,469 applications. Apart from the confusion about forms, the lack of information regarding starting of train services also upset the migrant workers. Mandal from West Bengal, said, “I want to return to my home. I don’t care about the quarantine period of 14 days which I will have to observe at Kolkata. But if we get a pass, there is no information on when the trains will start, how will the tickets be given.” Mandal works as a waiter in a hotel on Tilak Road. At Kothrud police station, special police officers and social organisations helped migrant workers and streamlined the form filling process. Vaishali Patkar, SPO under Chatushrungi police station, said, “There was total chaos today. When we went to Aundh government hospital, they were not aware of the medical certificate issue and hence had no forms to issue the fitness certificates. Then the forms were given by the medical staff and a photocopy of the form was taken by the people in the queue. We have told the migrant workers to keep a photocopy of the stamped fitness certificate with them. Stalls with volunteers to fill the forms along with a doctor and a paramedical staff would .have worked better.” A member of the staff at Aundh hospital, who refused to be identified, said that they were not aware of the development. “Today, when we saw a huge crowd, we were caught off guard. Then we took a print out of the form and told people to get a photocopy. There were just two doctors and since the morning we have been working without a break.” Another staff at the hospital said a token system will be implemented from Tuesday. Meanwhile, some workers paid high sums to get the certificates. “We don’t have money to buy tickets for the journey but we have spent Rs 2,000 to obtain health certificates for both of us,” a migrant worker said. Not all were unprepared. To manage the crowd the Kothrud police requested the migrant workers to form groups according to their native places. The police then told their group leader to stand in the queue with the list and the others to return to their shelters. “This helped avoid a crowd at the police station. We took help from SPOs and a social organisation. They joined us with their laptops and cellphones. We took the list and uploaded it in our system,” Pratibha Joshi, senior inspector of the Kothrud police station, said. The permission will be given by the district collector’s office. “After getting confirmation we will call the people as per the list and allow them to go to their destinations,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/donemigrants-crowd-police-stations-hospitals-for-travel-pass-fitness-letters-to-reach-home/articleshow/75544428.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kozhikode||‘Send off’ for workers in Kannur sparks row||Kannur: A ‘send off meeting’ for the guest workers, who left for their native places in Bihar on May 3 from Kannur, has landed Chembilode panchayat in the district in soup after the panchayat president used the opportunity to praise chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan for facilitating their travel. Moreover, there were over 60 people in the meeting, which was in violation of the lockdown rules and social distancing was not maintained, alleged the BJP and the Congress. The issue came to the fore after a video of the speech made by panchayat president T V Lakshmi went viral on social media. In the meeting held at the panchayat office compound before the workers boarded two KSRTC buses arranged to take them to Kannur railway station, the president was heard saying that they should thank the chief minister for his strong intervention to arrange the train and also they should tell all these to the people down home. She also listed out the welfare measures taken by the government. “This train was arranged, thanks to the strong intervention of the chief minister of Kerala… Do you know the name of the chief minister?,” she asked. The question was translated to the guest labourers with the help of an interpreter, who went a step further and made sure that everybody gathered there uttered the name of Pinarayi Vijayan. However, the panchayat president said there was no violation of the lockdown rules and the meeting was held maintaining social distancing. She also said whatever she said about the role of the chief minister was absolutely true. “What is wrong in saying that it was the results of the effort of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, when that is the truth?” she said. The earlier plan was to send them by bus but it was after the CM’s intervention that the authorities arranged trains, she added. However, the BJP and the Congress alleged that social distancing was not maintained and the lockdown rules were violated by organizing such a meeting and asked police to take legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/send-off-for-workers-in-kannur-sparks-row/articleshow/75540410.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||Med practitioners designated as Covid-19 care consultants||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Monday designated medical practitioners including members of both allopathic and AYUSH councils as Covid care consultants who will be advised to start home-based Covid care if they were contacted by any patient with suspected symptoms. Officials said they will have to provide details in a prescribed format to the surveillance officer of the civic body and follow the guidelines prescribed for such care. The medical practitioners will be provided online training this week. Meanwhile, three more persons died and 35 tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of deaths to 28 and cases in the district to 421. VMC officials said that reports of 228 tests were available since Sunday evening. Among the new cases, the north and the east zone recorded the highest numbers. A bulk of the cases earlier were reported only from the north zone where Nagarwada, the worst-affected area was located. Now, cases are being reported from the east and south zone too. North zone registered 15 new cases, followed by east zone with 12 cases and then the south zone with eight cases. In south and east zones areas like Panigate, Wadi, Ajwa Road and Waghodiya Road have been affected. Wadi and Panigate areas, in particular, are witnessing a large number of cases. The positive cases included a final-year lady resident doctor of the SSG Hospital. She, however, was not on Covid-19 duties and may have caught the infection due to some other reason. The deceased include Sarfaraz Qureshi (38), a resident of Jubelibaug, Kanti Patel (65) from Navapura and Shaukat Saiyed (70 ) of Nagarwada. Sources said that Saiyed had died while being brought to the hospital and his sample was collected for testing later. While he had died on Sunday, he tested positive on Monday. Condition of 233 patients is stable, eight are on oxygen and five on BiPAP or ventilator machines. As many as 540 remained home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/med-practitioners-designated-as-covid-19-care-consultants/articleshow/75540708.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||10 veg shops closed for flouting rules||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has closed down 10 vegetable wholesale shops functioning at MGR Bus Terminal as they allowed their customers to gather in large numbers flouting social distancing norms. The offence was found during an inspection conducted by higher officials in the midnight on Sunday. Corporation commissioner S Visakan and Madurai district collector T G Vinay conducted a surprise inspection at three places – MGR Bus Terminal, Truck Terminal and Amma Thidal. Wholesale vegetable shops have been shifted to the three places due to space constraints at the central vegetable market at Mattuthavani. Similarly, the retail vegetable shops at the central vegetable market were also shifted to 35 different places in the city last month to manage the crowd. Visakan ordered to close down all the 10 shops for another three months for violating social distancing norms. The commissioner urged customers to also visit Amma Thidal, where the crowd is less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-veg-shops-closed-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/75543897.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||30-year-old murdered due to previous enmity||Dindigul: A 30-year-old man was murdered by a group of people, including a juvenile in conflict with law due to previous enmity. The murder took place near Natham in Dindigul district. The deceased was identified as N Marimuthu from Sengulam village. Police have arrested Karupaiah, 40, his relatives Sivakumar, 40, Muthulakshmi., 60, Kumar, 41, and a 16-year-old. Marimuthu had a long-pending dispute with Karupaiah over a temple path. They were also at loggerheads in the rural local body elections that were held recently. On Sunday night, Marimuthu and Karupaiah had a quarrel. Four people who came in Karupaiah’s support stabbed Marimuthu death. A police team led by Natham inspector Rajamurali conducted an inquiry. The body was sent to a government hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/30-year-old-murdered-due-to-previous-enmity/articleshow/75543886.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Corona doots’ to act as police’s eyes and ears in Aurangabad villages||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad rural police have started appointing ‘corona doots’ (corona messengers) in each of the 1,282 villages to alert the authorities about people with symptoms, those violating the lockdown and outsiders trying to enter the village. A numbers of such volunteers have already policing their villages and alerting police about people reaching villages from cities and districts, prompting police to formally set up such groups. Superintendent of police (Aurangabad rural) Mokshada Patil on Monday told TOI that the lockdown in rural areas has so far stood the test of times and is being replicated everywhere. “To strengthen strict enforcement of the lockdown, we have introduced ‘corona doots’ to help police in various tasks in view of the coronavirus pandemic,” said the officer. “Based on the information collected from some of the volunteers, we wrote to the Zilla Parishad CEO to issue notices to the sarpanchs or gram sevaks of villages like kasab kheda where such information wasn’t shared or they were unaware,” said Patil. These volunteers will closely coordinate with the authorities at the local level. Besides, they will be provided with the contact numbers and WhatsApp numbers of higher-ups in the district administration as well as of police officers for sending alerts to enable timely action. Patil said that strict enforcement of the lockdown worldwide was crucial to curbing the spread of coronavirus. It is a challenge to enforce something that has never happened. More than 5,000 labourers have been intercepted at the borders. The officer hailed the response to the lockdown in rural areas as “superb”, saying that the villagers volunteered to stay indoors and some also came out to enforce it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/corona-doots-to-act-as-polices-eyes-and-ears-in-aurangabad-villages/articleshow/75541814.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders tread with caution, only some open ‘non-essential’ shops||NEW DELHI: Though shops selling non-essential goods were allowed to open on Monday owing to relaxations in lockdown 3.0, most such traders shied away from opening their establishments. Only 10-20% shops of tailors, mobile repair, electrical goods and bookstores were found running. While shops in planned neighbourhoods like Greater Kailash, Jangpura, Defence Colony, Kalkaji and Vasant Vihar remained closed, those in the inner lanes of urban villages and unauthorised colonies, where distinctions between market and non-market areas is hard, chose to open their shutters. In east Delhi, police had to intervene to prevent crowding in areas like Geeta Colony and Gandhi Nagar where a large number of shops in residential areas had opened. Sonu Yadav, a local resident, said even property dealers had opened their offices in the morning, but police shut them in the afternoon. Interestingly, despite paan shops being allowed to open between 7am and 7pm, almost everyone chose to remain shut. Pandit Rajan, who sells tobacco products near JNU Campus, said most sellers squat along the main road. As traffic movement is low, there are hardly any buyers. “I started selling vegetables last month. Cigarettes give me a better profit margin, but it’s unsafe to sell them. I will see how things turn up in the next few days,” he added. Pawan Kumar, a paanwallah in south Delhi’s Green Park, said even though he is scared of getting infected, he is glad to finally make it to work. “My savings have dwindled, so it is important for me to resume work to sustain my family. I didn’t get many customers, but I’m sure everything will become normal soon,” he added. As most office complexes at Barakhamba Road, Nehru Place and Bhikaji Cama Place remained closed, outlets catering to them on Bhagwan Das Road, Africa Avenue and nearby neighbourhoods remained shut. At Jangpura, only a handful of shops opened on Monday. Naseem Khan, who runs a mobile phone repair shop at Kashmiri Park, said, “Many people had approached me to get their phones repaired. We are maintaining social distancing and making sure people don’t assemble in front of the shop.” There were a few shops that faced shortage of staff. Jaswant Singh, a shop owner in west Delhi’s Possangipur, said none of his employees turned up. “I have an electronic goods shop and 18 electricians work with us. While seven of them have gone back to their villages, the other 11 said they would come to work when the shop opened. However, none of them came saying they were afraid of catching the infection and passing it on to their children,” he added. Another shopkeeper in east Delhi’s Preet Vihar said only one of his 20 workers turned up. “We have been providing our staff rations so that they don’t leave for their villages. Since no raw material is available, my employees said there was no use in them coming to the shop,” said Kamaljeet, a cement shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-tread-with-caution-only-some-open-non-essential-shops/articleshow/75543890.cms||Paras Singh
May 5, 2020||Delhi||RTOs in Delhi open, but with fewer appointments||NEW DELHI: You can now get a driving licence made or renewed as all the 13 Regional Transport Offices in Delhi reopened on Monday and started offering the usual services. However, the number of online appointments has been reduced to ensure social distancing. In case your driving licence, vehicle registration, fitness or any permit has expired after February 1, 2020, it will be considered valid till June 30, 2020. You don’t need to rush to your nearest RTO for renewal. “Only those with online appointments are allowed inside the RTOs and we have deployed staff at gates to ensure that the visitors sanitise their hands before entering the premises. Everyone is being provided a time slot for visiting the RTO,” a transport department official said. “Though driving tests were conducted at our automated test track, there were not many applicants. The number of applicants for renewals was higher compared with other services,” said an official at the Sarai Kale Khan RTO. “Though we had stopped issuing Learning Licences earlier to avoid crowding at RTOs, we are now providing all services, but to lesser number of applicants,” said a West Zone official. Despite the measures in place, many people are landing up at the RTOs without any appointment. “Most of those who visited our RTO without an appointment today wanted to enquire about renewals. This despite the validity extension till June 30. We are requesting everyone to not rush to an RTO unless they have an online appointment,” the official added. Most RTOs are also working with limited staff strength to maintain social distancing. “We had asked fewer clerical staff to work, but all inspectors had to resume work,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rtos-open-but-with-fewer-appointments/articleshow/75543901.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: 80-year-old anxious about returning home after seven ticket cancellations||PUNE: Eighty-year-old Ramanand Prasad Singh, who is stuck in Pune since March 13, has so far cancelled three air tickets and four train reservations. Singh, a former bureaucrat of the Bihar cadre, is anxious about his return back home getting delayed. He filled up the application form to travel home on May 2. “The government has now allowed migrant workers, tourists, students who are stuck in different places, to travel back home. However, I fall in the ‘others’ category and I am waiting for a solution. My wife, who is 75-years-old, is alone at home in the Giridih district of Jharkhand, and is very anxious,” said Singh, who is staying in Chinchwad with a relative. Ramanand had come to Pune on March 13 for an eye surgery. “I am undergoing treatment at the Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad since 2018. My left eye required an urgent surgery so I came to Pune. The surgery was March 16 and the post-surgery check-up was on March 23. I had a ticket to fly back on March 25. However, the lockdown was announced and my ticket was cancelled,” he said. The application form this time needed a medical certificate, which I got from the same hospital. “I also gave details of the car and the two drivers who would take me home,” he said. Singh said that before applying, he had booked fresh tickets for travel on April 15 and then for May 4. “On both these occasions, the tickets were cancelled and the amount went to the credit shell. I don’t have any intention to travel by air so the authorities should give full refund. I had also booked tickets on the Pune-Hatia and the Duranto Express late in March. The trains were cancelled but I got the refunds. In all, I have spent over 21,000 on tickets,” he said. Airlines have been providing refund only to travellers who had booked tickets on or after March 25 for travel up to May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/80-year-old-anxious-about-returning-home-after-seven-ticket-cancellations/articleshow/75544436.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||No let-up: Thirteen more Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Thirteen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Monday evening, taking its count to 141. These 13 are among the over 391 samples sent for testing to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Saturday and Sunday. The result of 133 samples is still awaited. Of the 175 samples sent to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, 112 were tested and all came out to be negative and reports of 63 are awaited, said deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal. “Of 503 reports received on Monday, 486 have tested negative and four reports will be resent,” the DC added. In the past two days, over 825 samples have been sent to virology laboratories of DMCH, PGI, Chandigarh, and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Patiala staff said they had a huge workload, so no sample was tested on Sunday. On Monday morning, over 469 samples were tested and results of 356 are still pending. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “There are 123 confirmed positive cases reported from Ludhiana district and 18 are from other districts and states. So far, seven deaths have been reported in the city, including one from Jalandhar.” There is a capacity of 450 beds in government hospitals and 84 in private hospitals. As many as 425 wards in government hospitals have been occupied by travellers, migrant labourers from Rajasthan, devotees from Hazur Sahib and patients from the civil hospital flu corner. Besides this, 25 wards have been occupied in a private hospital. In the city, there are 2,550 Covid-19 care centres for mildly symptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-let-up-thirteen-more-covid-19-cases-in-dist/articleshow/75541801.cms||Mehak Jain
May 5, 2020||Pune||Puzzled by multiple orders, Pune traders to shut shop; cops to now insist on travel passes||PUNE: An abject lack of coordination between multiple agencies issuing permissions led to the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) on Monday telling all shop owners and traders across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to keep their establishments closed until they received some clarity on operations. The FTAP's appeal to its members seemed justified with the Pune police on Monday announcing that travel within the city would need “valid passes”. The police’s order comes even as the municipal commissioner on Sunday declared that nearly 97% of the Pune Municipal Corporation area is a non-containment zone — a move aimed to promote economic activity, including shopping for non-essential goods. While Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham on Monday tweeted, “Vehicles without valid passes are not allowed as per earlier (order)", joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said people had showed complete disregard for the lockdown orders on Monday due to a “conflicting order” issued by a “government body”. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka told TOI, "So many orders have come out and everything is confusing. One order says open shops, another says opening of shops are not permitted while a third says only five shops will be allowed to open. The authorities are asking us to open shops, but all roads are closed. There are travel restrictions too.” Ranka, who sent a voice note through social media appealing to shop owners to stay shut irrespective of whether they were located in the containment zone or not, said, "We are going to meet the district collector on Tuesday to urge him to deliberate with other authorities and issue one notification." Interestingly, on Monday, the Pune municipal commissioner while relaxing the lockdown norms to allow opening of five shops selling non-essentials in the non-containment zones had allowed travel in these zones for “permitted purposes”. Shop owners selling non-essential goods say that the definition of “permitted purposes” has not been exactly spelt out. They say that even if the authorities may have a definition for this, it needs to be broadened if the intention is really to open shops and facilitate the travel of their staff and customers. In several areas, barricades have not been removed nor has it been clarified as to how shopkeepers and their staff will reach the shops if travel passes are needed even in non-containment zones. Citizens too are not very sure if they can travel to a shop outside their neighbourhood if both areas fall outside the containment zones. Ironically, for most of Monday, the police did not object to such travel by many people. It was only in the evening that Venkatesham tweeted, “Vehicles without valid passes are not allowed as per earlier (order) including for purchase of liquor. One could purchase in neighbourhood shops only in the permitted time and not on vehicles.” Sources said the police have taken a tough stand as traffic flow on many roads on Monday resembled the pre-lockdown weekend rush. Many motorists ventured out to simply make the most of the relaxations in the lockdown norms and to purchase liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puzzled-by-multiple-orders-city-traders-to-shut-shop-cops-to-now-insist-on-travel-passes/articleshow/75544612.cms||Abhijit Atre
May 5, 2020||Goa||Lockdown shows positive impact on Goa’s air quality||PANAJI: Limited industrial activity and restricted vehicular movement during the lockdown has helped improve the state’s air quality. Chairman of the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), Ganesh Shetgaonkar said that not only air quality, but also visibility has been enhanced. “Goa’s air quality index is now below 50, which means it is very good air quality,” Shetgaonkar told TOI. Before the lockdown, on an average day the state’s air quality index stood between 51 and 100, which is defined as moderate. The board monitors air quality at 12 locations in the state through air ambient quality monitoring stations. Even at MPT, where coal is handled, the air quality, which used to sometimes exceed 100, has improved to between 51 and 100, Shetgaonkar said. “Sometimes due to wind it (the index value) might exceed, but overall the air quality at MPT is satisfactory,” he said, adding that the decreased air pollution has increased visibility and he can now see Vasco from his office at Pilerne. During the lockdown there were no vehicles on roads, and all construction and industrial activities ceased. This meant there was no dust formation and it helped improve the air quality, Shetgaonkar said. He added that it will take time to receive the finding of the source appropriation study at Vasco. The board has collected samples but is unable to analyse the data due to the lockdown, Shetgaonkar said. A source appropriation study is carried out to find the reason behind the air pollution in an area. The state government has tasked the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mumbai, with examining the particulate matter pollution levels at Vasco through field sampling and air quality data analysis. IIT-Mumbai in its source appropriation report will indicate the exact quantity of coal, bauxite and other dust particles present in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-shows-positive-impact-on-states-air-quality/articleshow/75544613.cms||Murari Shetye
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Industrial units stay shut as lack of manpower, demand weighs||NEW DELHI: In Lockdown 3.0, Delhi government has allowed limited opening of industrial areas. However, most of the 21 identified industrial zones and surrounding units remained shut on Day 1. The industrial welfare associations across the city rued on Monday that the order hadn’t been properly conveyed to the local district administration. Many of them also said most industrial activities were closely linked to markets, and lack of demand, reduced manpower and bottlenecks in supply chain of raw materials would make restarting the process a herculean task. Prakash Chand Jain, who heads Bawana Industrial Area Welfare Association, said they were ready to open units but police and the district administration didn’t allow it. “They are saying they still don’t have written instructions from Delhi government,” Jain claimed. Procuring raw materials is also a challenge due to the restrictions at Haryana and Uttarr Pradesh borders, Jain said. “Markets are also closed. Demand is a pre-requisite for us to function,” he pointed out. Most of the labourers have either left or are unwilling to work now due to the fear of novel coronavirus, Jain added. Wazirpur Industrial Area also saw no work. “Area officials are not ordering any relaxation based on the chief minister’s assurance. We will get to know the real situation regarding the workforce only after resuming work,” said Manish Mangla, a factory owner. As they get most raw materials from Haryana’s Sonipat, the border sealing is also a problem. Sheesh Sharma of Mundka Industrial Association stressed on the need for clarity. “There is utter confusion. We are not sure if only essential items can be manufactured while subdivisional magistrates have not received the notification,” he said. The association reported that though some people had reached factories, nobody resumed work due to fear of harassment and penalties. “While 35% of the labour force is permitted, we could manage to bring only 20%. They, too, were used only to clean up factories,” an association official said. The industrial associations across the capital say their work has already been severely impacted and it may take months to return to normalcy. Sunil Malhotra, president of Okhla Industries Association representing Okhla phases I and II establishments, said it would take months to bring back workers. “For every step, like cutting and printing, we require a specialised and well-trained person. It is not easy to train a person overnight,” said Malhotra. Neeraj Sehgal, general secretary of Mayapuri Industrial Welfare Association, said companies were already cancelling orders making it difficult to survive even after the lockdown. “It may also take several weeks to gather labourers.” he said. Brijesh Goyal, the Delhi convener of AAP’s trade and industry wing, said confusion was over the access control and essential/non-essential goods clauses. “Around 30% of the factories opened in some industrial areas but most remained closed. In the next few days, the confusion will be cleared,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/industrial-units-stay-shut-as-lack-of-manpower-demand-weighs/articleshow/75543913.cms||Paras Singh
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||GPS enrolls students amid lockdown, private schools cry foul||LUDHIANA: Amid the ongoing lockdown and curfew, Government Primary School at Jawaddi here on Monday called students for enrolment for the new session. The school has allegedly been opening and making new admissions, violating the curfew orders of the district administration, though teachers said they were doing so after getting directions from higher authorities in this regard. Harpreet Kaur, head teacher and principal of GPS, Jawaddi said, “We have received verbal orders from higher authorities, including district education officer (primary) Rajinder Kaur and deputy district education officer Kuldeep Saini. All teachers have been instructed through teleconferencing to increase enrolments.” Harpreet Kaur, who stays almost a kilometre away from the school, said “On Monday, we enrolled two students, one in pre-primary class and the other in Class I. I have come today (Monday) to the school for enrolment…I am not aware about any other school.” However, deputy district education officer Kuldeep Saini said, “This is clear-cut violation of the district education department’s orders. The teacher said she had visited the school to check seepage as it had rained a day before. She visited to check the school infrastructure and the wheat kept in the school. We never asked to visit the school and enroll students, though we have a target to increase enrollments by around 20% over the last year.” Meanwhile, private school owners have reacted sharply to the government school’s attempts to push enrolments. They said at a time, when the whole world is suffering from Covid-19 pandemic, government teachers are busy increasing their student strength. “They are moving in cities and villages surreptitiously filling admission forms. This is shocking. It seems they are a privileged lot. It has also come to our notice that they have been provided names and phone numbers of private school students, whom they are making calls to get enrolled in their schools,” said a member of the private school owners’ union, alleging that government teachers got the data of private schools from e-Punjab portal. The school owners pointed out that when a private school had opened after March 19, an FIR was registered against them. J P Bhatt of the Associated Schools Joint Action Front, Punjab, said, “If education department is itself violating the law, how can they ask private schools to follow rules? We strongly condemn such activities and will definitely expose these methods of the department and challenge them in the court. They are bursting the curfew rules taking advantage of being government teachers.” “If a government school can make admissions, why not private schools? I feel by indulging in such acts, the education department is taking Covid-19 very lightly. We want deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agarawal to take action against errant officers. There should be no partiality between government and private schools,” said Thakur Anand, president, Associated Schools Joint Action Front, Punjab. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (primary) said, “We will seek the reason why she opened the school and admitted students as this is violation of rules. We never asked anyone to enroll students by breaking the administration rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gps-enrolls-students-amid-lockdown-pvt-schools-cry-foul/articleshow/75541827.cms||Mehak Jain
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Online coaching to crack entrance tests||KOLKATA: With NEET and IIT-JEE (Advance) knocking on the door, coaching centres have started offering online lessons to medical and engineering aspirants, who can opt for different sessions to clear any doubt and for assessments. “We are providing virtual coaching to students as they are unable to attend classes. All students are connected on an online platform, where different sessions are being held regularly,” said Aakash Institute director of Bengal Sunil Agarwal. The institute is also exploring the use of other platforms for convenience and unique features. “For students enrolled in the two-year course, 12 hours of online programme have been set for every week. In Kolkata, there is a high demand for weekend batches. We are continuing with six-hour training a day over weekends,” said Agarwal. Each batch is also being offered three to four hours every week, when the students can clear their doubts in any subject. The youngsters can also download e-books, refer to e-books and watch study videos on Aakash Digital, a supplementary portal. “Earlier, students had to pay separately for this portal, but now, it is available to all who have joined classroom coaching. Even parent-teachers meetings are being held online,” Agarwal said. Vidyamandir Classes has been running a nationwide online programme for over a month now. “We have separate groups for individual batches. On the platform, we post the links for each class being conducted. Through the website, aspirants can access e-books and video archives. Since timings of some classes may clash, all lessons taught to each batch are uploaded, along with class lectures, within 48 hours on the dedicated portal,” said Subhojit Ganguly, academic coordinator of Vidyamandir Classes, Kolkata. He added scanned e-books, along with solutions, were available. “Every two days, we hold sessions to answer students’ questions. A handful of students may be complained about their mobile batteries running out and some are facing vision problems due to long hours of staring at screen. For them, online recordings are available,” he said. Founder and chairman of Pathfinder Group Debdutta Sreemany felt students should not crib about being confined to their homes. “In classrooms, study materials are distributed and exams are held. This traditional system is being replaced with a new one, under which teachers are coaching on particular topics and then preparing analytical and critical-thinking questions for individual students to test their concept,” Sreemany said. “If anyone is found not to have grasped the subject, a revision is being held. Such individual interaction was limited earlier. Aspirants even from districts are finding the exercises beneficial.” Rohit Agarwal, director of PACE IIT and Medical Kolkata, said they started sessions on a social media platform in March, where aspirants posted photos of unsolved problems and faculty members helped them with answers. “From April, we started online classes. Every student has been given an ID, with which they can log in to clear their doubts and access additional materials. This is besides the online lessons. Even the PACE module is available online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-coaching-to-crack-entrance-tests/articleshow/75542955.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Overcome ‘period’ of anxiety with positivity||Nagpur: Sudden change in routine and lifestyle surely has an effect on the human body. In case of women, such changes may cause hormonal imbalance, leading to menstrual disturbance. The lockdown has been a stressful period for many. For women and young girls now grounded at home and facing increased responsibility, it’s been emotionally and mentally demanding. Few women have even reported about their periods/menstruation cycle getting irregular because of the changes in lifestyle.Gynaecologist Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of NOGS, believes that lifestyle change may invite irregular menses. “Hormonal imbalance is common in women and young girls during menstruation. Staying at home whole day can lead to frustration. Maintaining a healthy lifestyle, proper diet and dedicating an hour for yoga and exercise, pursuing hobbies and investing in some ‘Me’ time will surely help,” she said.Young girls experiencing their initial menstrual cycle are exposed to a lot of wrong information if not guided properly. Doctors feel parents can educate girls about changes in their body. “These girls are more aware than before, still their questions must be addressed. Educating them about the physiological aspect or counselling with a gynaecologist on phone is advisable,” said Shivangi Jahagirdar, a gynaecologist.Doctors stressed that it’s common for younger girls to have irregular periods at the start of their menstrual cycle. There is no need to panic but if there is heavy bleeding, it requires medical attention and expert care. “Young girls need to understand that it is absolutely normal. If any person is anaemic or suffers from excessive bleeding, breast tenderness or lumps, then consulting a doctor is must,” Jahagirdar said. “Identifying the symptoms of pain is must. And doctors are always available in case of emergency. But self medication should be strictly avoided,” said Swadha Kotpalliwar-Jannawar, gynaecologist and obstetrician.Women who have hit their menopause too suffer emotional disturbance. “Women after a certain age may feel alone and sad, especially after hitting menopause as their children are settled and a major part of their responsibilities too have been passed. They must exercise self care and dedicate time to activities that make them feel fresh and happy,’’ Kotpalliwar-Jannawar said.Gynaecologists are advising immunity boosting food, Vitamin E capsules, nuts, fruits and anti-oxidant rich food along with Vitamin C for overall well-being. “Being mentally strong and making peace with the situation while experiencing cramps will surely divert ones attention. But if the pain is more than routine, consulting a doctor is must. Period cramps affect different women at different degree, " said Vaishali Deshmukh, a gynaecologist.Doctors say it is very common for women to experience a certain level of psychotic imbalance, fear and anxiety during periods. Experiencing premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a well-known term but because of the changes in lifestyle and hormonal imbalance PMS can be very difficult to handle. “Identifying the symptoms of pain and cramps is must. It prepares one psychologically. Meditation and eating healthy food is advisable,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/overcome-period-of-anxiety-with-positivity/articleshow/75541850.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor to elude tipplers as curbs continue in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Even as the central and state governments have allowed sale of liquor in red zones in lockdown 3.0 despite being a non-essential commodity, the district and civic administrations in Nagpur have decided to continue with the earlier restrictions, barring a few exceptions. Earlier, collector Ravindra Thakare told TOI they would be granting permission to opening of shops selling non-essential products, including liquor in rural areas, as per the guidelines. Even Pune had granted permission for liquor sale. While talking to TOI, guardian minister Nitin Raut too endorsed his stating that liquor shops would be allowed to open outside city limits. However, after their review meeting in the evening, Thakare came out with a notification that all kinds of shops and permit rooms selling liquor and related products would remain closed till further orders. Only exceptions will be restaurants inside airport, railway and bus terminals. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde had already made his intentions clear on Sunday by issuing a notification that same curbs of second phase of lockdown would continue till May 17, including liquor outlets. He had taken special permission in this regard from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during their meeting via video conferencing on Sunday evening, Raut said. However, his decision came under lot of a flak from tipplers on social media. Five lawyers, including Shreerang Bhandarkar, Kishor Lambat, Kamal Satuja, Prakash Jaiswal and Manoj Sable have even planned to challenge Munde’s notification in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday, contending that it was issued in breach of Friday’s government orders. Later in the evening, the civic chief came out with revised guidelines where he allowed standalone hosiery shops and book stalls or those functioning from residential complexes to operate provided that they’re not in containment areas or in NMC’s Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones. Even government offices outside these areas are permitted to resume with 10% staff. The corporation also allowed construction activities in its remaining six zones provided that the builder will arrange lodging and boarding facilities for the labourers. All these activities would be permitted with social distancing norms and compulsory wearing of masks by the citizens along with use of sanitizers. Expressing possibility that city may witness more number of Covid-19 cases till mid-May, Mundhe clarified that curbs would continue on all private offices, liquor shops, paan kiosks, shopping malls, salons, beauty parlours and other establishments as per the state government’s directives. Mundhe also discussed the issue with police commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay and urged him to intensify nakabandi at every entry point to check movement of tipplers. “Nagpur city is already in the red zone and section 144 of CrPC is imposed. We will neither allow citizens to venture out of containment zones nor out of city limits,” he told TOI. Most Vid districts to continue restrictions Anticipating trouble, most of the districts in Vidarbha too decided to continue with the same restrictions of lockdown’s second phase till May 17. Those in red zones like Akola, Yavatmal and Buldhana have decided to keep shops selling non-essential items shut, including liquor. Those in orange and green zones like Amravati, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Gondia and others will observe partial lockdown while allowing sale of non-essential items and opening of industries with minimal staff. But sensing trouble, the Amravati and Bhandara collectors decided to continue curbs on liquor shops till further orders. Amravati collector Shailesh Naval told TOI that no concession will be given to shops other than those selling essential commodities, but relaxation could be offered in coming days if shopkeepers comply with excise department norms. Yavatmal collector MD Singh said that prohibition on sale of liquor and tobacco products would continue, but agriculture and allied activities will be allowed in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-to-elude-tipplers-as-curbs-continue-in-nagpur/articleshow/75543985.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Fishermen seek easing of stringent norms||Madurai: Fishermen have appealed to the government to relax the stringent norms that are in place to govern fishing and sale of fish during the lockdown. One of their key demands is to allow them to fish six days a week against the existing practice of allowing fishermen from a village only twice a week. In its representation, Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam (MOS) stated that the Centre’s guidelines on May 1 allowed fishing activity as usual except for fishing ban clause. “But the Tamil Nadu government’s report on May 2 has not given any specific information on the fishing industry which employs and feeds millions of people against the grave situation of growing unemployment and declining economy,” president of the association, J Vincent said. Secretary C Johnson claimed that the fisheries department is arbitrarily stopping fishing and sale activities in some coastal villages. “Officials are doing it on the pretext that fish auction is attracting big crowds,” he said. Meanwhile, the restrictions have resulted in shortage of fish availability in the market. “We give the first 200 tokens to our village, after which we give for outsiders,” said a village committee representative who is handling fish sale in Vallavilai in Kanyakumari district. Such practices are leaving many consumers disappointed. They feel that permitting more boats to go fishing will bridge the demand-supply gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishermen-seek-easing-of-stringent-norms/articleshow/75543903.cms||M K Ananth
May 5, 2020||Kozhikode||142 enter via Thalappady, much lesser than expected||Kannur: On the first day after lockdown rules were relaxed, 142 persons came via Kerala-Karnataka border at Thalappady in Kasaragod till Monday evening, which was much less than the expected numbers.“A total of 3,528 applications were received, seeking permission to enter the state and 898 passes were issued. Of this lot, 142 entered the state till evening," said an official release. "Some people came without registration and completed the formalities after reaching here," said deputy collector AK Ramendran, adding that everybody was permitted to go home after screening as nobody had symptoms of Covid-19. Since 60 helpdesks were set up with 600 government employees – including teachers, revenue and health officials, doctors, police and fire force personnel – round the clock, the process was easy, he said. At a time, 200 government employees are on duty. The crowd was mainly from Bengaluru and in the coming days more people are expected from other states including Goa and Maharashtra, said the official. Permission is granted as per Covid protocol and people crossing the border should produce a certificate saying they were not Covid patients. The life in hostel room during lockdown was a harrowing experience which was further worsened by the spread of the disease, said an engineering student who came from Mangaluru. Now, I’m a bit relaxed as I’m home, she said. Though persons who registered on Norka website are permitted to enter the state, those with an emergency are also permitted after registering at the counters, said collector D Sajith Babu. In the coming days the number of counters would be increased based on requirements as there is facility for up to 100 counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/142-enter-via-thalappady-much-lesser-than-expected/articleshow/75540434.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded workers from Bengal are on nobody’s radar||Nagpur: Jahangir and his 250 other friends have listed their names own names and hoping to submit them to the district collector. These workers from Nandigram district in West Bengal do not even know that an online application has to be made. Yet they hope to be evacuated soon. They too are stranded migrant workers. Their only disadvantage is that they are not living in a government shelter home. Those in the shelter homes are being counted and sent home by trains or other means. Living in crammed rooms of Gulshan Nagar locality, between Kamptee and Kalamna, these Bengali workers are on nobody’s radar. Another group of over 250 is reported to be living in Mominpura. There are other groups in different low income pockets of the city. Volunteers of the NGO Edufirst Women and child Foundation feeding them say they have run out of resources. As help has been sought from other groups, supplies have come down to just one packet for two persons. “We have to manage with less, one man shares two packets,” said Shaikh Ataulla, also from Nandigram. “Since last two-three days we have been getting nothing but fried rice, we manage somehow,” added another one. “The workers are engaged in garment making units which is a cottage industry. They are paid on piecework basis and since there is no work after the lockdown they are living on charity,” said Huztama Ansari, a local resident providing them help. They are in Nagpur from Ramzan till Diwali and then go back home in Bengal, said Ansari. Social distancing is a far cry as the workers live in groups of 4 to 5 in small rooms. “ I am in struggling. So is my family back in the village,” said Shah Alam, in his 50s. “I don’t have a son who can look after my wife and daughters. They depend on what I send from here. If am not earning, even they have to starve,” he added. On Roza (fasting), the workers were happy that they were getting food early in he morning after the fast begins and in evening when it ends. “Though less, we get the packets in time,” said Alam. “The workers earn Rs 2,000 to 3,000 a week and their family back in West Bengal depends on their earnings,” said Ansari. “It is time the district administration intervenes. Our NGO fell short of resources and food packets sourced from other NGOs are not enough. There have been times when food just enough for 50 was given where 250 persons are living,” said Shahid Sharif who runs NGO Edufirst providing help here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-workers-from-bengal-are-on-nobodys-radar/articleshow/75542977.cms||Shishir Arya
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed, Parbhani collectors refuse to take in citizens coming from red zones||AURANGABAD: Collectors of Parbhani and Beed districts have sent letters to the collectors of all districts marked as red zones. The two collectors have communicated that they will neither issue no-objection certificates (NoCs) nor take in people who have been stranded in red-zone districts. The letters have been marked to the officers of Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Nashik, Palghar, Nagpur, Solapur, Yavatmal, Pune, Aurangabad, Satara, Dhule, Akola and Jalgaon districts. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka too have refused to issue NoCs to their citizens currently stranded in red-zones. The authorities’ decision to refuse NoCs to stranded tourists, migrant workers, businessmen and people who had been to their relatives’ place before lockdown, has stunned the collectors heading the red-zone districts. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “I respect their decision to not to take in their own people as they fear the spread of Covid-19 infection in their districts. We will not insist on them to take in the stranded people and will continue to make arrangements for them in our district.” He also said that the district authorities, taking a humanitarian view of what their own residents have been going through for the past 40 days, should follow the guidelines by screening people entering the districts and implementing quarantines. Echoing a similar view, Aurangabad district collector said Uday Choudhary said: “We are ready and will continue to accommodate and make arrangement for the stranded people.” He, however, added that Rajasthan has been very cooperative and has granted blanket NoCs for accepting its citizens, irrespective of them coming from a red zone or not. As a result, 817 passes have been issued to people from Rajasthan. The letter by Parbhani district collector D M Mugalikar, a copy of which is with TOI, states: “We have received the communication from the state as well as the Union government about sending the stranded people back to their respective hometowns. Still, considering the fact that your districts have been marked as red-zone, please do not send the stranded workers, tourists, devotees and students to Parbhani district.” Writing in bold and underlining the same, the letter asks the districts collectors as well police chiefs and civic body chiefs to not to issue any travel passes to people from red-zones to head back to their homes in Parbhani. The Parbhani collector has confirmed that such a letter has been issued. In the letter sent by Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar to all district collectors in the state, he has said that Beed district has been issuing passes through its official website www.beed.gov.in. Citing the policy decision taken by him as the district collector, the letter reads: “The Beed district administration, for now, has decided not to accept people from red-zones, buffer zones and containment zones.” He also cited that several applications and official communications coming from different district offices are silent on the areas or zones from where the persons want to return. The letter also asks the district collectors to ensure that a person returning to Beed should be certified that he is not returning from any such zone or containment area. Rekhawar could not be reached for his comments on the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-parbhani-collectors-refuse-to-take-in-citizens-coming-from-red-zones/articleshow/75541846.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 5, 2020||Madurai||More vehicles on roads, only few shops open after curbs are eased||Madurai: As the lockdown restrictions were eased slightly on Monday, there was slight increase in the number of vehicles hitting the city roads, forcing the traffic police to operate signals at some busy junctions like Goripalayam and Kalavasal. However, there were no traffic congestion or snarl, said officials. “There was around 30% vehicular movement on city roads compared to usual days. The number of two-wheelers hitting the roads was way higher than a normal lockdown day. However, there has not been any traffic congestion as public transport like buses and auto rickshaw, which used create congestion, stayed off roads. A few auto rickshaws came out and they were booked for violation,” a city traffic official said. Most of the shops were closed in the city with only a few mobile recharge shops, tailoring units, electrical appliance repair shops, hardware and electrical shops kept open, but more number of hotels, eateries and bakeries started functioning. But they restricted to parcel service as per the state government’s order. A few mobile shops which opened in the morning soon closed as others did not come forward to open shops. Construction activity in the city has not taken off yet as builders are awaiting clarification from the district administration on getting passes and availability of raw materials. Madurai corporation is planning to wait a couple more days before resuming construction activities on smart city projects. A meeting to check the preparedness of contractors was held at the corporation main office led by city engineering S Arasu, in which the contractors were asked to prepare their men to start works. “Tiny, small and medium industries in rural areas would start operation in a few days,” said K P Murugan, president of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association. However, they have to wait till May 17 for the units in the city to start functioning. There are around 800 printing and allied units in city alone, employing 20,000 people, he said. “Units in rural areas will start operation from Wednesday onwards. We will stick to the guidelines from the district administration that vehicles should be operated with only half he capacity to transport employees. We are working with officials to bring raw materials safely from other districts and state,” Murugan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-vehicles-on-roads-only-few-shops-open-after-curbs-are-eased/articleshow/75543911.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t take law into your hands: DGP||Ahmedabad: With migrant workers going on rampage in Palsana of Surat Rural, DGP Gujarat Shivanand Jha said that the government is in the process of making arrangements for migrant workers to return to their native places. He said that special trains and buses are being run for this, but the process is going ahead according to the procedure set by the state. Jha said that as things may take some time, people should remain patient and support the government. “However, if people take the law into their own hands, police will take action against them according to the law and will not permit the law and order situation to deteriorate,” he added. Jha said the focus will now be on areas where there are higher levels of Covid-19 infection. “Areas in red zones with more Covid-19 cases ware being categorized as containment zones and are being barricaded. At every barricade there will be a videographer and strict vigil will be kept on vehicles,” added Jha. Jha said that if the people do not abide by lockdown rules, that they will be forced to create new containment zones. “Citing the example of Maninagar, where some areas have been notified as containment zones, he said people should stay indoors in these areas,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-take-law-into-your-hands-dgp/articleshow/75543059.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Driver held for ferrying labourers in MUV||RAJKOT: A driver was arrested for allegedly transporting eight labourers in his MUV from Rajkot to Dahod on Sunday evening. The accused, identified as Manu Sanghada (37), was arrested after his MUV was intercepted at the check post near Sheetal Park on 150-feet Ring Road in Rajkot. “Sanghada said he was taking the labourers from Rajkot to Dahod. We have made arrangement for the labourers to go back to their work place and booked Sanghada for the alleged violation of the lockdown order,” said R S Thakar, inspector with University police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/driver-held-for-ferrying-labourers-in-muv/articleshow/75541852.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Temp reaches 44.8 C, heatwave warning for the city||Nagpur: Scorching summers are here. On Monday, the city recorded maximum temperature of 44.8 degree Celsius, the highest of the season till date.This was nearly three degrees above the normal levels. With similar temperatures, Nagpur and Bramhapuri were the second hottest in the region. At 44.9 degrees, Akola was the hottest in Vidarbha.Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur has issued warning of heatwave for the city for Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. The maximum temperatures of Nagpur are expected to reach 45 degrees during these days.There was some relief at night as on Monday, the city’s minimum temperature was 23.4 degrees, which is three degrees below normal. The minimum temperatures elsewhere in Vidarbha were much higher around 28 degrees.As per the met department’s forecast, citizens might get some relief from the heat on May 10, when there is a possibility of pre-monsoon showers. As reported by TOI, the wind discontinuity is persisting in lower levels and that is causing rainfall in Vidarbha.In the month of April, the city received a total of 15.8mm rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/temp-reaches-44-8-c-heatwave-warning-for-the-city/articleshow/75541831.cms||Manka Behl
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Students at MMC dispel rumours on food quality at hostel||Madurai: After messages of poor quality food being served to postgraduates and house surgeons at Madurai Medical College (MMC) were circulated on social media, college authorities and student council have come forward denying the claims saying that the messages were fake. They assured that everyone, including PGs and compulsory rotatory residential interns (CRRIs) staying at the hostels in MMC were being served quality food.The Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association had issued a statement requesting college authorities to do the needful, after the messages went viral. However, later, the Rajaji Hospital Resident Doctors Association and Post Graduate Student Council at MMC issued statements denying the claims.“The issue came up because the CRRI mess was shut down after one of the CRRIs tested positive for Covid-19 on May 1. The mess was disinfected and the workers were all tested. Though all of them tested negative, they are under quarantine and so a new set of workers were hired. This was the only change. As a temporary measure, packed food was arranged for consumption within hostel rooms and hence it is understandable for there to be issues in quality,” said a PG student.However, the Oasis Post Graduate Hostel mess was fully functional and there were no issues there. For both messes, it is the CRRIs and PGs themselves who decide everything including the menu.The hospital authorities are currently making alternative arrangements by opening the closed undergraduate (UG) hostel mess for use by CRRIs. “The UG hostel mess is spacious and we were informed we will be also getting back the mess workers who used to work there. This arrangement can ensure quality food and there is also plenty of room for social distancing,” added the PG student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-at-mmc-dispel-rumours-on-food-quality-at-hostel/articleshow/75543923.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi traders divided over new norms||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s decision to allow liquor shops and offices in commercial markets to open with 33% staff evoked mixed reactions from retail traders. While some said they should be allowed to open their shops dealing in non-essentials under an “odd-even scheme”, others questioned the government on how it will ensure the order was being followed. Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ Association, said they have written to the home ministry over the issue. “Ours is a planned market and most of the shops sell day-to-day commodities. I don’t think giving permission to open shops (not restaurants) would cause chaos as in the case of liquor stores. Also, we don’t have centralised airconditioning so chances of spreading the infection are minimum. We have requested the ministry to at least allow opening of the market on a trial basis...we will arrange for a sanitising tunnel, thermal scanners, masks and other facilities,” he said. With commercial activities shut for over 40 days now, most retail and wholesale traders are expecting huge losses in the coming days. That is not their only worry. Many also have to pay salaries, rent, licensing fees, etc. Brijesh Goel, convener of AAP’s trader and industry wing in Delhi, said many anxious traders had approached him after the government announced norms under ‘lockdown III’. “Several traders from Nehru Place, Connaught Place, Karol Bagh and other prominent hubs called me. They were requesting to allow opening of retail shops in an odd-even sequence. I also agree with them because if retail shops won’t open, where will the goods produced go? However, we can only follow the MHA directions,” said Goel. Some traders also questioned how the government will make sure that the norms were being followed. “How will they verify that only 33% of the staff is present in each office? Also, once office-goers start coming, then hawkers will also be back. So many commercial towers have small eateries or shops and those might start too. We think traders should not rush,” said JK Gupta, chairman of Nehru Place Welfare Association. Trader associations of Chandni Chowk and CP agreed. “No doubt that our business is getting affected badly and it will take over a year to cover our losses, but what is the point of opening shops when customers won’t be able to come,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-divided-over-new-norms/articleshow/75543921.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 5, 2020||Kochi||Widespread confusion over Shramik train registration||Kochi: There is widespread confusion and panic among guest labourers in the state who want to get back to their hometowns because of the arbitrary way the state government has approached the registration process. Helplines for labourers in the state are being flooded with distress calls from labourers who have no idea how to register or which trains would take them back on what dates. The sudden cancellation of Shramik trains has also added to their woes. As of now registration of guest workers and their health screening is being done after the trains are announced. Only workers in major labourer pockets are being chosen for repatriation and this has added to the confusion. The lack of clarity in circulars issued by the Union ministry of home affairs and the state government has also added to the confusion. “When officials start registration at one location they call and inform others whom they know about it and these people would try to reach the spot. The labourers are also in the dark about how the trains are scheduled and how to register,” said Vishnu Narendran, director, programmes for Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. CMID had urged the CM’s office to publish an official statement in multiple languages and audio clips informing the procedure of registration to go home to avoid confusion and panic among workers. Instead of they coming to a place for registration and standing in long queues, it would be better if such registration is done locally at the ward level at the LSGs. Some of them had already registered on online platforms provided by their home states and were under the impression than no other registration is needed. “There are hundreds of guest workers who live away from major pockets and who want to go back. They are getting excluded now,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID. The state government should also prioritise footloose labourers, who are not attached to any employers for repatriation as they are the ones who face issues of unemployment, food and accommodation, he said. The NGO has also requested the state government to initiate trains to West Bengal, Assam and Uttar Pradesh in addition to Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. The need for trains to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka (from north Kerala) should also be examined. Instead||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/widespread-confusion-over-shramik-train-registration/articleshow/75540476.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 5, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML slams govt for not evacuating pravasis||Malappuram: As the decision on evacuating Indians stranded in other countries remains uncertain, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has expressed strong disappointment over the state and Union government’s stand.In a statement issued on Monday, the national general secretary of the party P K Kunhalikkutty said that the decision of Union government to evacuate only a particular percentage of pravasis from other countries is condemnable. He demanded state government to take emergency steps to pressurise the Union government to change their stand on the issue.Kunhalikutty said that the decision of the Centre to bring back only a fixed percentage of stranded people in other countries cannot be accepted as it is discriminatory. “Government can give special consideration to sick persons, pregnant women, senior citizen, etc, and bring them back in first flight. But limiting number of people to evacuate from a country, to a particular percentage, cannot be accepted. All people who want to return to India should be evacuated,” he said.A large number of people from Kerala are stranded in Gulf countries. They have no proper treatment facilities and food there. Many have already lost their jobs and they are staying in labour camps which are not safe due to Covid-19 spread, he said.Kunhalikkutty said that the state government is not actively intervening on behalf of pravasis. “Kerala government has informed Centre that the state government has made proper arrangements to receive pravasi Malayalis. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-slams-govt-for-not-evacuating-pravasis/articleshow/75540462.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 20% small retailers may shut down in six months||AHMEDABAD: With retail being among the worst affected sectors because of the nationwide lockdown, trade and retail bodies predict that at least 20% small retailers may be forced to shut down in the next six months. With shrinking demand, decreasing disposable incomes, changing consumer behaviour, and strict social distancing norms, the revival of demand in the retail sector will take time and thus will impact small traders. “Small retailers don’t have deep pockets and sustaining overhead costs such as shop rentals as well as salaries of employees are a challenge with revenues reducing to zero during the lockdown,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “After 40 days, government must provide some relaxation to resume business in a phased manner, otherwise small retailers will be forced to shut shop.” Retail was as such reeling from a demand slowdown across sectors and the lockdown has added to the traders’ woes, according to experts. Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive officer, Retailers’ Association of India (RAI), said, “Business will take time to bounce back. This is because consumers are facing an income shortfall and therefore, their purchasing power will weaken.” Rajagopalan went on to say: “Moreover, due to strict social distancing norms, the number of customers catered to in a day will come down significantly.” Rajagopalan said that retailers will take at least nine months to achieve bare minimum normalcy and the smaller players are likely to succumb. In certain sectors, the revival time may be longer. Rohit Choksi, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said: “The gems and jewellery sector will be adversely hit because it was already under recession due to the rise in gold prices.” Choksi said that currently the Covid-19 outbreak is the most widespread in the Walled City of Ahmedabad where the major markets are located. “At least 25% units will never reopen or soon shut down because jewellery is a luxury commodity and will be the last priority on people’s purchase list,” Choksi said. Industry sources said manufacturers will face a demand slowdown and their production cycles will be hit. “Unless items go off shelves, what will manufacturers produce?” said Arpan Shah, honorary treasurer, Gujarat Garments Manufacturers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-small-retailers-may-shut-down-in-6-months/articleshow/75542973.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Youth who took drugs to get high dies||Ramanathaupram: A youth who purchased prescription drugs over the counter from a medical shop and consumed it to get high died at a hospital in Ramanathaupram on Sunday. The deceased was identified as S Sadam from Thondi in Ramanathapuram district. He had purchased some tablets at Amman Medicals in Thinaiyathur and consumed it to get high a week back. As soon as he consumed the drugs, he suffered health problems and was shifted to a hospital where he died not responding to treatment on Sunday night. Ramanathaupram district police came to know about the incident the same day and probed the matter. District SP V Varunkumar formed a team comprising police officers and a doctor to check activities at the medical shop. The team caught two youths who purchased tablets and syrup to get high from the medical shops without any prescription a few days back. A case was registered against the youths identified as Mohammed Siyas and Mohammed Bayas and pharmacist M Prabu under the sections of NDPS act. The police also seized 1,250g of ganja from Mohammed Siyas. They were remanded in judicial custody. As Sadam died, IPC section 304 II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was added to the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/youth-who-took-drugs-to-get-high-dies/articleshow/75543920.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||HIV+ Guj youth beats Covid, scripts rare success story||AHMEDABAD: In what is being termed as one of the country’s rare Covid-19 recovery stories, a 27-year-old HIV positive patient from Kumarkhan village of Viramgam taluka in Ahmedabad has won the battle against the highly contagious virus. What is even more startling is that the patient had a blood haemoglobin of 2.3% with a low iron binding capacity and was severely anaemic. He was admitted to the civil hospital in Asarwa in Ahmedabad on April 15 and was discharged on Monday. “The patient was a challenge for our medical team at the civil hospital. He was given three blood transfusions during the 20-day stay at the hospital. He was regular in taking his antiretroviral therapy and drug during hospitalisation even before he was infected with Covid-19. But in the end it was the medical teams’ resolve and patient’s immunity and his will to survive that won the battle,” said Arun Mahesh Babu, district development officer (DDO), Ahmedabad. Sources in the civil hospital claim that the patient’s blood reports were not encouraging and there were bleak chances of his survival. However, the patient fought on. Leading infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel said that HIV patients could beat Covid-19. “In today’s medical scenario, an HIV positive person who is on anti-HIV medication is not considered immunocompromised anymore”. He said HIV positive persons, if given the right treatment and support, could beat any illness as as normal human beings. A detailed file of the patient is being prepared by the hospital as it is one of the rare cases in the country and may throw light on future research. A short video of his return to the village was released by the Ahmedabad DDO office. The patient’s family, panchayat members and village elders held a short welcome ceremony for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hiv-guj-youth-beats-covid-scripts-rare-success-story/articleshow/75544764.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Nafed begins to procure onions from Lasalgaon market||NASHIK: The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) on Monday started procurement of onions from Lasalgaon APMC. Last month, the Centre had directed Nafed to procure 50,000 tonne of onions to create a buffer stock in a bid to tackle scarcity of onions that usually occurs between July and September every year. On Monday, Nafed purchased onions at an average rate of Rs 800 per quintal. According to sources, around 600 quintal of onions were procured on the first day. "Procurement of onions will gain momentum in the next two three days. Moreover, onion procurement will also be started at other centres like Pimpalgaon and Kalwan APMCs," one of the source said. Last year, Nafed had also procured 57,000 tonne of onions from wholesale onion markets, including 48,000 tonne from Nashik, Pune and Solapur districts. The remaining 9,000 tonne of onions was procured from various markets in Gujarat. Meanwhile, from Monday Lasalgaon APMC finally started auction of loose onions. The APMC had stopped auction of loose onion and opted for auction of onion in sacks around a month ago due to shortage of workers. But there was constant demand from farmers to begin auction of loose onions. Moreover, Nafed had also urged Lasalgaon APMC to start auction of loose onions. Accordingly, the decision to start auction of loose onions was taken by Lasalgaon APMC authorities. The average wholesale onion price was recorded at Rs 800 per quintal at Lasalgaon APMC, against Rs 850 per quintal on the last working day i.e. Thursday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 400 and Rs 921 per quintal, respectively. Around 26,000 quintal of onions were auctioned on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nafed-begins-to-procure-onions-from-lasalgaon-market/articleshow/75541901.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Just 4% of 30,000 get nod to return to Bihar||Ahmedabad: Only 4% of the migrants who wanted to go back to their homes in Bihar could got themselves registered with the district authorities which resulted in anguish and anger amongst migrant labourers. Sources at the district collector office said that around 30,000 workers sought accommodation to go to their respective villages in Bihar, but only 1,200 got registered who were sent from two points — Isanpur and Odhav in eastern parts of the city. Besides, the district administration took four days just to finalize the names of those who could go to their native places. The selected 1,200 migrants got only two hours for boarding the bus either from Isanpur or Odhav to reach Sabarmati railway station. A local social worker, Azhar Rathod, said that they took around a week to register those 30,000 workers from Bihar who have been staying in the eastern part of the city. “Today, we were told to inform around 1,200 migrants to reach the bus boarding point. This was a herculean task for us to inform a large number of workers,” said Rathod. He also said that the government authorities have been collecting Rs 750 per person to provide a rail ticket from Ahmedabad to Sitamarhi in Bihar. “Migrant workers often question us on why the money is being charged when the government is claiming that they provide us free service to go to our native places,” he said. In usual days also, the train fare between Ahmedabad and Sitamarhi ranged between Rs 650 and Rs 800 in sleeper class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/just-4-of-30000-get-nod-to-return-to-bihar/articleshow/75543054.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||Leopard trapped in Canacona||POINGUINIM: In a second case, an adult leopard of about 6-8 years of age, was trapped at Gotcamolem near Poinguinim in Canacona. The leopard, a female, weighed 35kg. Forest officials said a trap was laid following an application from Gotcamolem resident Peter Fernandes, who complained to the range forest office (territory) that a wild cat had been killing his pigs, causing him a loss of over Rs 25,000. The wild cat also snatched away two of his dogs. Another leopard, a 2 to 3 year old male weighing around 20kg, was caught in a trap on April 28 at Shishegal, after residents complained that it was stalking cattle in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/leopard-trapped-in-canacona/articleshow/75544616.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||8 thrash, open fire at Kasabad village man||LUDHIANA: Following an old rivalry, a group of assailants thrashed and shot at a 33-year-old man in Bharti Colony of Salem Tabri late on Sunday night. Sandeep Kumar, of Kasabad village, is admitted to a hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. The police have booked Naveen Negi, Mandeep Sanhotra, Mandeep Monu, Ajay Pandit, Vishal Kumar, liquor smuggler Shashi Kumar and two unidentified accused. Cops said Ajay was a notorious criminal, who had several cases, including attempt to murder, clash and extortion, registered against him. Naveen, too, has a murder case against him. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Kanwaljit Singh said, “Shashi of Bharti Colony was selling illegal liquor from his home. Sandeep, who owns a tyre puncture shop in his village, went there to get liquor around 10.45pm on Sunday. Naveen, Mandeep Monu and Mandeep Sanhotra were drinking outside Shashi’s house. The previous year, the trio and Sandeep had a fight over liquor. Therefore, when they saw Sandeep, a verbal spat ensued.” The trio then thrashed Sandeep. “Soon, Shashi and two unidentified men joined the trio. After beating up Sandeep, the trio drove away in their car and Shashi and his two aides, too, left. Sandeep was on way home when the trio returned along with their accomplices Ajay Pandit and Vishal Kumar and weapons,” he added. Naveen first opened fire in the air. “When Sandeep started running away, he shot at his knee. On hearing the gunshots and Sandeep’s screams, people gathered there and the accused fled,” he said. Sandeep then called up his friends, who took him to hospital. A case has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of an offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and under the Arms Act. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-thrash-open-fire-at-kasabad-village-man/articleshow/75541898.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Police cane migrant workers at Warje||PUNE: Police on Monday afternoon resorted to a mild lathi charge to disperse a group of nearly 600 migrant workers who had gathered at the Warje chowk to fill forms to return to their home states and other districts of Maharashtra. A police officer said the workers had thronged the police station premises without maintaining social distancing norms. He said the police had to use force when the workers did not heed repeated appeals to disperse. Senior police inspector Ashok Kadam said, “As the police station premises is small, we had created a facility at a big shed at Barate chawl for the registration. But the workers gathered at the chowk and then in front of the police station. Soon, many of them entered the police station as well." These migrants gather at Warje chowk daily in search of work. “Therefore, we printed flex boards and put them up at the chowk, informing the workers about the website for the registration process and the procedure to collect travel passes,” Kadam said. “However, when the workers gathered at the spot, we made repeated announcements asking them to disperse. But they were impatient and, when social distancing norms went for a toss, the police used batons to disperse them,” he said, adding that the registration was later done at the chawl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-cane-migrant-workers-at-warje/articleshow/75544615.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Land ceiling case: HC delivers split verdict||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court delivered a split verdict in an urban land ceiling case, for a plot on the SG Highway in Sola village, on which a cooperative housing society staked claim and a commercial complex has been put up despite an HC stay order. In this case, while one judge accepted the claims of the cooperative housing society that it could use the land, the other judge not only rejected the claims but also imposed fine of Rs 50,000 on all persons including the society who had challenged the single-judge order. The single judge had in 2007 rejected the society’s claims and imposed costs of Rs 10,000 on it. After the split verdict, the matter has now been referred to a third judge for adjudication. The issue is pending in the high court for 28 years. In this case, two persons bought 12,141 square-metres of land from a farmer in 1975. The Urban Land (Ceiling & Regulation) Act came into effect in 1976. When the authority claimed the land, both landowners claimed that the land was bought because they wanted to promote a housing society. The authority spared 1,000 square metres for each of the owners and declared 10,141 square metres as excess vacant land. The owners formed Dip Coopeative Housing Society in 1980 and the dispute about the excess vacant land lasted before the concerned tribunal till 1991. The authority granted relaxation for the cooperative society. The issue came before the HC in 1992, which ordered that the status quo be maintained. However, a commercial complex was erected on part of the land. To the authorities’ objection, the society defended itself by stating that the commercial construction was not on the land in question. The society continued to assert its claim on the land excess. While dealing with the appeal, Justice J B Pardiwala considered the society’s claims as proper while Justice A C Rao concurred with the single-judge’s 2007 judgment. Justice Rao found that the society suppressed material facts and the ULC land is meant for dwellings of the poor and not for the cooperative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/land-ceiling-case-hc-delivers-split-verdict/articleshow/75542999.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Worm-infested food, short supply of milk and water for inmates||Nagpur: There seems to be no end to the woes of Satranjipura residents quarantined at different facilities in the city. Those staying at Pachpaoli police quarters have complained of worm-infested food, while those at VNIT have alleged that the administration has supplied poor quality meals and just one can of water and milk for over 100 people at each centre.While many went without food at Pachpaoli, those at VNIT hostel said the situation led to a quarrel among inmates over sharing milk and water.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has outsourced catering services to private contractors. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI there were complaints regarding quantity of milk and quality of food from VNIT hostels. “We are providing quantity as per protocol but it is falling short. We have assured to supply more milk as per their demand. The food quality is perfect. Monday morning our team inspected the food packets at VNIT but didn’t find anything wrong,” he said.Joshi said they are now roping in NGOs to help meet the increased demand.The problem of worm-infested meals was encountered at Pachpaoli police quarters, where the district collector’s office had appointed a caterer. Pachpaoli inmates said they were getting food on time but because of the worms people refuse to touch it. They also alleged rude treatment by workers at this centre.District collector Ravindra Thakre didn’t answer TOI’s calls. The Pachpaoli centre is now being served by NMC, said sources. Besides this, NMC is supplying food at VNIT hostels, Symbiosis hostels, and a flat scheme at Chinchbhuvan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worm-infested-food-short-supply-of-milk-and-water-for-inmates/articleshow/75541904.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Minister quarantines self at home||Jaipur: State cooperatives minister Uday Lal Anjana on Monday put himself in home quarantine following an avalanche of cases in his constituency Nimbahera. In a self-made video released by him, the minister said he was shocked that his town was severely hit by coronavirus. He made an astonishing claim that he had came in contact with those who tested positive for covid-19 in the last few days while discharging his duties as the MLA of Nimbahera. “I am safe and have put under self-isolation at my residence,” the minister said. He didn’t mince words in accusing the administration for it’s laxity in implementing the restrictions during the lockdown. He fervently appealed to people to strictly follow lockdown norms. “You should not worry about whether you are getting vegetables or milk on time or not. It is an emergency-like situation and we shouldn’t care about supplies. We will not die if we will not get supplies for a day or two. Most importantly, we all have to stay safe follow social distancing at any cost to defeat the spread of the virus in our town,” Anjana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-quarantines-self-at-home/articleshow/75543932.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Devotees witness iconic celestial wedding online in Madurai||MADURAI: For the first time, the culmination of the grand Chithirai festival in Madurai, the celestial wedding of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar took place as a low profile event on Monday without devotees thronging in huge numbers. However, thousands of devotees witnessed the wedding online from the comfort of their homes. The divine wedding ceremony was held from 8:15am to 10:30am on Monday while the solemnization of the wedding was done in the auspicious hours of 9:05am-9:29am. As opposed to 20 priests who usually are a part of the ceremony, the rituals were conducted by only four priests in the first corridor of Swami Sannadhi. Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar were both seen magnificently and colourfully decorated for the ceremony. “We got ready early in the morning and decorated our own Goddess Meenakshi Amman at home. We then witnessed the entire wedding online. It gave me and my family a sense of satisfaction. Though we couldn’t go to the temple, we felt blessed,” said R Nivethitha, a 55-year-old resident of Vilakkuthoon. As per custom, women who usually changed the thread holding their mangalsutra at the temple during the celestial wedding for the welfare of their husbands, did so instead at their homes. Joint Commissioner of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple N Natarajan observed that the wedding was witnessed on Facebook and You-Tube by around 53,000 viewers. He also said that all necessary precautions were taken and minimal staff were on the temple premises. Police were also deployed at the temple to prevent any devotees from gathering in or around the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chithirai-festival-celestial-wedding-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/75543935.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Hassled cops reeling under 12-14hr duty, confusions over lockdown||Nagpur: The city police seem close to buckling under the pressure of working around 12-14 hours every day in the rising temperature to enforce various lockdown norms. From enforcement to social work, cops have been doing almost everything in the city. The latest responsibility which has been thrust upon the cops is to ensure safe passage of migrant labourers from shelter homes in the city to their native places.If a senior officer is to be believed, their work begins at 5.30am with the bandobast at makeshift markets. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started these in various open places across the city for citizens after closing down of Kalamna and Cotton Market.Apart from long duty hours, the confusion over norms and decisions taken by the government seems to be adding to their fatigue. “There are so many ambiguous orders that we cannot satisfy citizens asking us various queries at checkpoints, and some of them end up in confrontations with us. We are tired of these confusions,” said a cop on condition of anonymity.On Monday, the zonal DCPs and their office staffers were left picking out applicants from the city willing to travel out back to their hometowns, from among the thousands of such pleas statewide, as there is no citywide classification available in the software.The DCPs remained busy in scrutinizing the applications and processing them. “I have got at least 100 local citizens and hordes of migrant persons and others waiting outside my office for passes to go back to their native places,” said a DCP. On Monday, city police chief BK Upadhyay also reminded the force under him that the lockdown enforcement cannot be lackadaisical, despite the exemptions given in services and commodities. It’s learnt that the top cop, over the broadcast channel, made it clear to his officers and the rest of the force that they need to ensure checking is not relaxed at the nakabandi points. Following the instructions from the CP, cops remained on toes the entire day, barring a couple of hours in the afternoon when the outside temperature soared. “Even at high noon, cops may not be visible standing, but they be spotted on the roadside under some shade,” said a cop.“As soon as the temperature begins to fall, senior officers also return to the checkpoints, following which momentum of checking picks up again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hassled-cops-reeling-under-12-14hr-duty-confusions-over-lockdown/articleshow/75541890.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 5, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 positive cases in southern TN nearing 450||Madurai: After reporting only one Covid-19 case in the last 10 days, Dindigul district suddenly found itself dealing with 10 fresh cases in a day, all returned from Koyambedu in Chennai. After a week, the southern region is witnessing Covid-19 cases in double digits. On Monday, the 10 southern districts reported as many as 23 cases taking the total count in the region to 449. Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi said that more than 100 people who returned from Koyambedu have been traced and tested. Out of them, 10 tested positive on Monday. None of them is from Dindigul city limits. Usual containment measures have been taken in their native villages. Screening of their contacts is being done and they have been kept under quarantine, she said. Tenkasi, meanwhile, reported nine new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 49. According to health officials, all the nine cases were contacts of those who tested positive for Covid-19 at Puliyangudi. Officials further said they are on the watch for people returning from Koyambedu. Ramanathapuram collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that a 23-year-old woman from Kadaladi taluk tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He said the woman was a newly-recruited police constable and her samples were taken when she came to join for training. He said that since she tested positive, officials are involved in the process of contact tracing to identify the source. In Madurai district, a 34-year-old man from Peraiyur tested positive for Covid-19. The man had been staying at a government quarantine facility and was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) after developing symptoms. With 91 cases each, both Dindigul and Madurai now top the list of most Covid-19 cases in the southern region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-positive-cases-in-southern-tn-nearing-450/articleshow/75543927.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Barbers told to shut shop for not following distancing||KOLHAPUR: A handful of standalone shops selling non-essential items opened on the first day of the third phase of the lockdown starting Monday. Most of the barbers had opened their shops. The barbers were using masks and gloves while attending to their customers and many had made provisions for sanitisers at the shops. Customers were asked to cover their mouth and nose with masks while getting haircuts. Most of the customers were told to get their shave done at home. However, Ganesh Raut, a hairdresser from Tarabai Park, was among those who kept his shop shut though he had arranged for the sanitisers as well as the sterilising machine. “I decided not to open ,y shop as I don’t want to take the risk of getting infected. I have told all those who had booked their appointments that the saloon will remain closed for the next four to five days,” said Raut. A couple of hours into operation, a team from the anti-encroachment department visited the saloons and asked the barbers to shut their units. The barbers were infuriated when the officials told them that they had received orders from the police to shut the shops as social distancing was not being observed. As a result, many barbers have decided to shut their shops for the next few days. Among other shops that were open were those involved in the sale of spare parts of automobiles and electricals. An operator of an electrical shop in the Bagal Chowk area said that he had opened his unit to get the electrical items delivered to his regular customers, mainly the offices and industries. However, by afternoon, he too shut his shop. The decision of the local administration to allow not more than five non-essential shops along the side of a lane or a road to remain open on any given day has not gone down well with traders. The traders have proposed an odd-even formula for allowing the standalone shops to open. As per the suggestion, shops along one side of the lane or a road will open on even days and those on the other side on odd days. Ajit Kothari, president of electricals association said, “We have discussed the issue and made the suggestion of odd-even formula to the civic authorities. We expect a decision from the district administration by Tuesday. Till then, all the shops will remain shut.” The district administration has made it clear that only the standalone non-essential shops will open and the units in the market complexes will remain closed. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has intensified its drive to fine individuals, shop owners and vegetable vendors for not using masks. The municipal corporation penalised 76 people and collected fine amounting to Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/barbers-told-to-shut-shop-for-not-following-distancing/articleshow/75541892.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||CCTV footage saves Naroda cops from blame of custodial death||Ahmedabad: In a bizarre case where a man died from excessive bleeding after injuring himself inside a police station, police narrowly escaped from being blamed for a custodial death as CCTV footage clearly showed the man running and ramming his head into a glass door and receiving wounds.Inspector Jaydeep Patel of Naroda police station said that about 11.15am on Monday they received a message that a man carrying a stick was creating a ruckus in Naroda GIDC area.“We sent a police team immediately to the spot and found one Rupesh Doliya, 35, was standing with a stick in his hand. Police tried to calm him and took the stick away. Meanwhile, a cop recorded the whole incident at the spot,” Patel said.DCP Zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar, said that Doliya had been brought to the police station and made to sit on a table. “Doliya then ran towards Inspector Patel’s cabin and rammed his head into the glass door. It is clearly seen in the CCTV footage. He got seriously injured on his head and armpit and was bleeding profusely. We called 108 emergency service ambulance and took him to Civil Hospital but he died due to excessive bleeding,” Badgujar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cctv-footage-saves-naroda-cops-from-blame-of-custodial-death/articleshow/75543042.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Doctor from Nashik city’s private hospital tests positive||NASHIK: A 42-year-old woman, who is a doctor in a city-based private hospital, has tested Covid-19 positive. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has isolated five of her family members from the Vrindavan Colony in General Vaidya Nagar, near the Bhaba Nagar area of the city. The civic body has also sealed the containment areas in General Vaidya Nagar. NMC officials said the doctor had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient while working in the hospital. “We have quarantined her associate doctors and other medical staff in the hospital and have sent their throat swabs to the lab for testing. We are also tracing the high-risk contacts. We have already isolated her family members and sent their swabs,” said official. With this new case, the total number of positive patients in the city has risen to 17. The number includes three doctors, one pharmacist and two police personnel. The NMC had earlier sealed 10 containment zones in the city, including four on Saturday. Now there are 11 containment zones in the city. “We have sanitized the containment area in Vrindavan Colony. Moreover, health department teams have been formed to conduct a door-to-door survey in the containment area,” the officials said. NMC health teams conducted a survey of 98 houses in the containment areas, covering a population of 486. Fogging and spraying activities were also undertaken on Monday. On Saturday, the NMC had sealed four containment zones, including three in the Cidco division of the city — Savta Nagar, Uttam Nagar and Pathardi Phata — and one in Satpur colony after six new patients, including a rural cop, a civil hospital doctor and a pharmacist, had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doctor-from-nashik-citys-pvt-hospital-tests-positive/articleshow/75541925.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Over 2,500 industries start operations across district||NASHIK: Over 2,500 industries have so far started operations in the district and many more are expected to follow suit from Tuesday. A total of 5,036 industries from across the district have uploaded their self declaration form and obtained online permission from Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to resume operations. "Of these over 2,500 industrial units have started operations," regional officer (Nashik MIDC) Nitin Gavli said. "We have given online permission to various industries to operate 688 buses to bring their employees to work. Now, we have also started giving permission for two-wheelers and four-wheelers," Gavli said. An MIDC official said many large industries in automobile and electric sectors in the district have also started operations. "This has created positive mood in industrial sector of Nashik," he said. The transporting of workers by buses was the major concern for the industries in Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of MIDC located in the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). "But this issue has been settled as government has allowed workers reach industries by two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Industries have also started applying to the MIDC for getting online passes for two-wheelers and four-wheelers," Tushar Chavan, secretary of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NMA), said. "With MIDC giving permissions for two-wheelers and four-wheelers, we are expecting that more industrial units in Satpur and Ambad will become operational in a day or two," he added. Earlier, only few industries were operational in Ambad industrial estate of MIDC, but around 800 units have started operations so far. Manish Rawal, senior member of NIMA, said there are over 1,000 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) connected directly or indirectly with major automobile company in Nashik, but this company has only started cleaning and maintenance at its manufacturing plant. "These 1,000 SMEs will not start operations unless this large automobile company starts production," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-2500-industries-start-operations-across-district/articleshow/75541916.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Hundreds from Telangana, Andhra still held up in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Stranded persons who need to cross over into bordering Telangana from Maharashtra remain to be held up in various districts of Vidarbha. They don’t have any means of transport of their own and the Telangana authorities have so far not accepted the request to provide any help to ferry them back home. There are 700 such persons in the Amravati division of the region alone. They can easily cross over from the Yavatmal district but remain held up. Out of them, 300 have to go further up to Andhra Pradesh but will have to cross Telangana first where no means of transport is being made available from the state government, said a source. Divisional commissioner (Amravati) Piyush Singh there are 400 persons who have to go to Telangana, with another 300 bound for Andhra Pradesh. As Telangana is easily accessible from the Pandharkavda town in Yavatmal, the option is being considered first. However, there is no arrangement from Telangana side to take them further. Talks have been initiated between the two state governments, he said. Those having their own means have been allowed to cross over. “If there was a train from Nagpur to Telangana, they could have been sent in it,” the officer said. The divisional commissionerate at Amravati is also in talks with the state government in Madhya Pradesh to foot the bill for train travel of the state’s migrant worker stranded here. There are 2,000 of them in Amravati division. On Monday, a train bound to Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh took off from Akola. The fare of around 40% of the UP-bound travellers was paid by local NGOs. There have been no restrictions on the travel of stranded persons who have their own vehicles. Almost all the persons form Rajasthan have been able to leave as they had their own vehicles. There is another lot of persons who have to travel within the state but have no vehicles or other means to come on their own. They may have to wait till the public transport begins, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hundreds-from-telangana-andhra-still-held-up-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75543011.cms||Shishir Arya
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||NMC missed foreign-returned persons in Satranjipura drive||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has been saying that “one positive Covid-19 patient can infect around 400 persons if not isolated” citing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study to justify aggressive containment drive in Satranjipura, city’s coronavirus hotspot.Yet, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) containment team left out probably a few key suspects in the serpentine list of close contacts of positive patients from Satranjipura.Between March 6 and 23, over 20 persons living in Satranjipura, Telipura and Shanti Nagar had returned from different foreign tours and were advised home isolation without even conduct of RT-PCR tests. The NMC failed to recall these persons and conduct tests even after Satranjipura exploded with Covid-19 cases. Even stranger is the fact that some of these persons have come in close contact with the positive persons. In the containment drive, over 1,400 persons said to be close contacts of those testing positive were quarantined. Around 100 people having Satranjipura connection have tested positive so far. A 68-year-old man from Satranjipura, first Covid-19 deceased from city, had tested positive a day after his death on April 5. The man and all other positive persons, except his nephew, had no travel history. The nephew had travelled to Saudi Arabia, but back in February. One of the foreign-returned men resides in the building where a paramedic used to visit. The paramedic had come in contact with the deceased and later tested positive. She is admitted to GMCH. Residents alleged that the foreign-returned man has been left out “as he is close to a politician who has been accusing the minorities of not cooperating with NMC”. The doctor, who runs the clinic where the paramedic works, has gone into self-isolation while several of her close contacts had been placed in institutional quarantine. The list of 23 foreign-returned persons was prepared by the divisional commissioner’s office and handed over to NMC as well as local police stations. TOI has a copy of the list. These flyers were first taken to MLA hostel for screening and advised 14-day home quarantine. Satranjipura zone assistant commissioner Vijay Humne admitted that such person ought to present themselves for institutional quarantine. “In special cases, we have allowed people from this area to isolate themselves at home. If these foreign-returned persons are not among them and still at home, then it is a matter of serious concern,” he said. Humne said his team will trace these people and place them in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-missed-foreign-returned-persons-in-satranjipura-drive/articleshow/75541913.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||73k industrial units resume ops in state||Gandhinagar: Although several areas of the state have been placed in the red zone where industrial and commercial activity has not been allowed, government figures say that over 73,000 industries and commercial units have begun functioning. With partial relaxations allowed in Jamnagar, Junagadh and Morbi districts, the number of functional industries will cross the figure of one lakh, say government sources. Manoj Das, principal secretary, industry & mines department said, “Between the first relaxation offered on April 20 and May 3 which was the last day of lockdown 2.0, over 73,000 units began functioning. With further relaxations in Jamnagar, Junagadh and Morbi, we expect the number of units which have started functioning to cross one lakh.” Since April 20, when industrial and commercial units outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities were allowed to resume operations, a total of 73,100 units have opened, say government figures. A majority of the units that have resumed operations are micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs. With 16,543 units, Ahmedabad has the highest number of units that started operations, followed by Surat Rajkot rural Kutch Morbi , Bharuch and Valsad .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/73k-industrial-units-resume-ops-in-state/articleshow/75543009.cms||Kapil Dave
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guidelines issued for intra-state travel||Gandhinagar: The state government on Monday published guidelines for the movement of workers and citizens within the state. The local mamlatdar’s permission to travel will have to be taken by visiting https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in. According to the guidelines, workers, farmers, and those involved in business can move from one district to another with prior approval of the district administration. However, permission will be granted only for these stated categories of persons. The guidelines stated that no movement will be permitted in containment areas or red zones. Permissions will be granted only for areas under green and orange zones. The district control office will share the details of the person and vehicle with the other district. The district from where the person is leaving must get the medical screening done and issue the permit thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guidelines-issued-for-intra-state-travel/articleshow/75543047.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||72-year-old man from Ichalkaranji tests Covid-19 +ve||KOLHAPUR: A 72-year-old man from Ichalkaranji with no travel history tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He was admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR), the civil hospital in Kolhapur, on Saturday with breathlessness and cold issues. According to the health department, the man did not come in contact with any positive patient identified earlier. A report from the CPR stated that the addition of the new case took the tally of positive cases in Kolhapur to 14, of which eight are active cases. District collector Daulat Desai said that considering the relief granted for few establishments across the district and the time at which the new positive case emerged, it became all the more important for citizens to follow social distancing norms and lockdown guidelines. “Citizens should avoid unnecessary movement across the city. This kind of negligent behavior may complicate problems for the administration. If people fail to abide by the norms, the lockdown guidelines will be made more strict,” said Desai. Officials from the health department said that the second Covid-19 testing laboratory has started functioning at the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College campus. Thed laboratory had the capacity to test upto 300 throat swab samples per day. While one of the testing machine is automatic, the other one is manual and the testing time for each of the varies. Previously, the Kolhapur health department used to send the throat swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Later, the samples were sent to Miraj government hospital after a testing laboratory was set up there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/72-year-old-man-from-ichalkaranji-tests-ve/articleshow/75541912.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||BMC links wards to pvt labs to monitor testing||Mumbai: BMC has linked civic wards to designated private laboratories to streamline and monitor testing. Civic official said it was done to curb “unnecessary” testing being carried out at private laboratories even if the individual was not exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the decision to link wards with private laboratories was finalised on Monday. “One ward should refer samples only to one laboratory for testing. We have iterated too that testing can be done with valid prescriptions from medical practitioners, health officials of the ward, medical superintendents, Covid Care Centres 2 (assigned for asymptomatic positive patients), and designated Covid hospitals,” he said. Each laboratory has been linked to three to four civic wards, he said. The city has 18 labs carrying out tests, of which about a dozen are private.  A civic source said the idea behind linking of wards and private labs was to cut down unnecessary testing and streamline testing of samples at quarantine centres. “We have seen instances where private physicians are writing prescriptions, and people who can afford it are getting tests done even though not required. That is leading to overburdening of labs and delay in testing of real suspects,” said a ward officer. He added that the labs would have to attach the doctor’s prescription asking for the test along with the report. The tests here are nearing 65,000. Another civic official said previously, BMC’s central team had to be informed about tests, and it would collect samples. “If they were overburdened, some time would be lost in collecting samples. This will now mean decentralisation,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-links-wards-to-pvt-labs-to-monitor-testing/articleshow/75543940.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 2.10 lakh migrant workers register to leave for other states||JAIPUR: So far, 2.10 lakh migrant workers in Jaipur have registered themselves to move to other states and 29,000 have registered for coming to the district. On Monday, 25 migrant workers arrived here from Uttarakhand. Also, 200 students and migrant workers have left for Uttarakhand. Moreover, 150 students will be leaving for Andhra Pradesh and Telanaga on Tuesday. Two trains with migrant workers — 1,207 in one and 1,194 in the other — will be arriving from Maharashtra on Tuesday. The district administration has appointed two nodal officers — Ashok Kumar and Rajesh Dogiwal — for monitoring entry of migrant workers in Jaipur and for those who are leaving for other states. It has set up check-posts at Jaipur border for screening of migrant workers coming from other districts and states. In the rural areas, the elementary education officer will be appointed as nodal officer in gram panchayats. He will appoint a monitoring officer for each village. “All persons will be screened and examined by the medical officer. An affidavit will be done to register their names, addresses and mobile numbers at the border check-post. The information will be sent to the sub-division officer and the nodal officer,” said district collector Joga Ram. “Consent of the states is being obtained through nodal officers concerned in the state for coming to Jaipur from other states. Only after that online NOC by authorised officer of the district will be released,” he said. Additonal district magistrate (South) Shankar Lal Saini said, so far passes have been issued to a few foreigners for their travel to New Delhi, including an Australian man, one South Korean woman and 3-4 from Afghanistan. The passes were issued only after home department cleared the permission. They were to fly to their respective countries on dedicated flights. The migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others who are stranded in Delhi and have registered online to come to Rajasthan by personal vehicles, will be issued passes by deputy commissioner/district collector of the district concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-10-lakh-register-to-leave-for-other-states/articleshow/75543948.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power to be cheaper as GUVNL cuts fuel surcharge||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL)’s consumers will have to pay less for electricity as the state-run power utility has reduced Fuel Price and Power Purchase Adjustment (FPPPA) charge or fuel surcharge for the first quarter of the current fiscal. A power distribution company (discom) levies a fuel surcharge or FPPPA from consumers to offset changes in fuel (coal and gas) cost. GUVNL, the apex electricity company in Gujarat, has cut FPPPA from Rs 2.06 per unit to Rs 1.90 per unit. “The reduction of 16 paise per unit translates into monthly savings of Rs 124 crore for 1.35 crore consumers of GUVNL during April to June period. The power purchase cost of GUVNL came down to Rs 4.56/unit from Rs 4.60/unit in January-March quarter of fiscal 2019-20,” said K K Bajaj, a city-based energy and regulatory expert. GUVNL, which supplies electricity to most of the state, barring Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat, has asked its four distribution companies to levy Rs 1.90/unit from April to June 2020. The reduced surcharge is applicable to all categories of consumers except agricultural consumers because state government provides a subsidy to discoms for agricultural use. “GUVNL was able to reduce power purchase cost by 4 paisa per unit by procuring cheap power from the short term electricity market. The use of natural gas, the prices of which have also come down drastically, also helped the company cut power purchase costs,” said a source privy to the development. “Apart from this, GUVNL was allowed to levy 12 paisa per unit in the previous quarter to make up for earlier under recovery. This will not be charged from the current quarter, taking the total cut in fuel surcharge to 16 paise per unit for April-June period,” the source added. Meanwhile, power demand across Gujarat is down by nearly 30% due to the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. “At this point of every year, electricity demand in the state is usually around 17,000MW to 18,000MW. However, it is now hovering around 12,200MW,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-to-be-cheaper-as-guvnl-cuts-fuel-surcharge/articleshow/75543025.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Electricians, plumbers grope in dark to obtain e-passes online||Trichy: Though the district administration has allowed plumbers, electricians and air conditioner mechanics to resume work after obtaining e-passes from the authorities, the skilled workers are groping in the dark to get the passes. The skilled workers were asked to get the e-passes online, but the workers who are not so tech-savvy find it difficult to resume their work without obtaining the passes. For more than a month, the service of plumbers, electricians and AC mechanics was unavailable due to the lockdown restrictions. Even as there is a need for the skilled workers in the households, electricians and plumbers were not ready to attend to the complaints fearing police action. Meanwhile, by relaxing the lockdown from May 4, the district administration has ordered the skilled workers to apply for e-passes online at ww.tnepass.tnega.org and continue their work. However, this has not gone well with the electricians and plumbers who are not so tech-savvy in completing the online formalities. “I tried several times to download the e-pass but the website shows error. Not all of us have a smart mobile phone. We have planned to seek the help of a friend who owns a browsing centre for applying for the pass,” G Panneerselvam, an electrician from Palakkarai, said. Without e-passes, the skilled workers will face action during the lockdown. In the absence of e-passes, electricians and plumbers have planned to make use of bicycles for reaching worksites. But such an alternative effort will consume a lot of time. Meanwhile, district administration sources said that people should make use of the websites for applying e-passes. “No e-pass will be provided at the district collectorate,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/electricians-plumbers-grope-in-dark-to-obtain-e-passes-online/articleshow/75541935.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Lockdown-hit jewellers see sparkle in veggies||VADODARA: Indrapuri Society in Karelibaug has been thriving on adorned veggies these days. The sumptuous spread includes exotic items like rhodium tomatoes, 18 carat onions, polished bottle gourd, antique ginger and Cuttack work spinach! The reason for this lies in the vendors. Lockdown-hit jewellers have started selling vegetables adding glamorous jewellery names to the humble greens to lure buyers. With jewellery shop in Ghadiyali Pol and Karodiya Pol closed due to the nationwide lockdown, the owners have switched to eke a living selling vegetables. On May 2, office bearers of Ghadiyali Pol-Karodiya Pol Jewellers Association bought around 400kgs of vegetables from the APMC market and after sanitizing them, put them up for sale under the banner ‘Sabji Jewellers’. “We noticed that Covid-19 hit vegetable vendors were infecting their customers too. We, therefore, decided to purchase best quality vegetables from the market ourselves and sell them in our residential societies at a cheaper price,” said Kanu Soni Bavalawala, president of the association. The society’s residents were informed in advance about their intention and all were asked to get a bucket or a single bag to purchase the vegetables along with face mask and hand gloves. The group is now planning to contact farmers directly and procure organic vegetables to sell them like the grocers, eliminating middlemen, said another jeweller Harish Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bullion-sales-down-jewellers-find-sparkle-in-selling-affordable-veggies/articleshow/75541542.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||NGOs to give NREGA works to migrants who return to state||Jaipur: The state’s MGNREGA department has involved around 25 NGOs at block and village levels to work as a parallel feedback system. These NGOs will provide information to the department if migrant workers, who have returned to the state, are being engaged in NREGA works or not and whether there is more demand for work in the districts. A WhatsApp group has been created for the flow of information in which the representatives of the NGOs, MGNREGA commissioner and MGNREGA executive engineer were added. On Monday, over 17 lakh workers were engaged in NREGA works across the state, compared to 29 lakh working during the same time last year (2019). The aim is to bridge this gap. “The migrants workers will be engaged after quarantine period. Around 25 NGOs have been involved to give feedback from the ground about how the government machinery is responding to the demands of the migrant labourers for work. If it doesn’t respond positively, the NGOs can inform or report it to us. There is a deficit of 13 lakh labourers now. They might be demanding work but we are not providing. These NGOs will help them to apply for work and in making new job cards,” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “The actual demand cannot be less than last year’s. The actual labour demand in the field must be 30 lakh or more than that. It may so happen that the BDOs and the engineers are fearing to go to the field and are not engaging labourers in NREGA work. So, in such cases, the NGOs will give us accurate feedback. It will not be official but an informal feedback, which will help us in understanding the ground reality. Their feedback is more likely to be authentic than the ones given by the officials,” he added. Kishan also said, “During a video conference with the NGOs, one of them named Ibtada informed us that BDOs were giving works to the workers in Alwar. Another NGO Pedo gave us a feedback that labour demand in Dungarpur was 3 lakh, but only one lakh labourers were engaged in work. Such feedback will help me in addressing the issues of migrant workers and also make NREGA more sensitive towards the cause of labourers. Mapping of new gram panchayats was also discussed during the mapping.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngos-to-give-nrega-works-to-migrants-who-return-to-state/articleshow/75543956.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Foul smell from fire in chemical containers’||Gandhinagar: Investigations by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) into the foul smell experienced in western parts of Ahmedabad city found that it was because of a fire that took place at ICD Khodiyar near Adalaj two days ago. GPCB said that although the fire at the ICD was doused, the chemicals got spread on the land and they were reacting with water to generate gases that were causing a foul smell and irritation to people. Many people in areas like Prahladnagar, Satellite, Bodakdev, Nehrunagar, Navrangpura, Paldi, Bopal and Maninagar have been complaining of a foul smell and irritation over the past couple of days. A V Shah, member secretary, GPCB, said, “Our experts teams searched all possible causes of gas leakage. However, it has been found that the strong smell resembling a gas leak experienced in western parts of Ahmedabad for two nights was because of a chemical fire incident at ICD Khodiyar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/foul-smell-from-fire-in-chemical-containers/articleshow/75543039.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||High and dry, wine shop owners keep shutters down||Nagpur: The lockdown effect continued in majority of outer areas of the city, even as it was expected to be eased from Monday. Outlets vending non-essential items and liquor shops operating in areas outside city limits were expected to start on Monday.With no formal orders in hand most of the shop owners preferred to keep the establishments closed. News that wine shops will be opened in the rural areas had cheered many. Many even thronged the wine shops but had to return disappointed Members of the wine shop owners’ association were busy all day coordinating with officials in district administration to get clarity on the matter.“It’s not likely that the shops may be opened today. There are only handful wine shops in the rural areas,” said Rajeev Jaiswal, the association’s secretary when talked to in the afternoon. Finally the liquor ban continued after collector issued fresh order later in the evening.TOI gathered inputs from pockets like Wadi, Kamptee and Kalmeswhar to judge the scene.In Wadi, confusion prevailed over easing of lockdown norms. Jumma Pyarewale, CEO of Wadi Municipal Council (WMC), said that the council is waiting for clear instructions. “It will be prudent to follow the guidelines that are in place for areas within the NMC limits itself. The orders regarding relaxation in lockdown norms are for rural area. However, for the police department, WMC falls under city limit. Wadi is semi-urban area. We will take the call once there is enough clarity,” Pyarewale said. “I decided to shut my shop after just half an hour as I got a call from a relative working in the police. He alerted me to shut my shop,” said a shop keeper. A handful of shops like those dealing in electronics auto parts and other appliances were also seen open only to shut down soon.At Kamptee, the municipal council’s CEO Ramakant Dake said the civic body has invited applications from the shopkeepers. Only five shops in a row have to be allowed on rotational basis. “Even the shops of essential commodities already open will have to be counted for that purpose. So far, 70 applications have been received,” he said.The residents confirmed that the lockdown continued both in Kamptee town and cantonment areas.TOI also visited the Kalmeshwar town, 20 kms from the city. Shops in villages along the way remained closed. The market area at Kalmeshwar was also desolatePurshottam Zade, who had opened his shop selling farm pumps for the first time after the lockdown, said he started only in the afternoon. “It’s heard that the lockdown has been eased. Even otherwise, agriculture pumps come under essential items. The rest are waiting for an order from the municipal council,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-and-dry-wine-shop-owners-keep-shutters-down/articleshow/75541927.cms||Shishir Arya
May 5, 2020||Nashik||HIV patients can get medicines at ICTCs||NASHIK: The Nashik district branch of District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU) has made medicines available to nearly 1,000 HIV positive patients in the district since lockdown. Yogesh Pardeshi, the district programme officer of DAPCU, told TOI that with the help of the data available, they contacted those whose medicines were about to get over, and told them to collect it from integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTC) in their area. “We have made arrangements of medicine supplying at all 32 ICTCs in the district. The patients were unable to reach our unit at the civil hospital due to the lockdown. Now, they are taking medicines for two or three months together,” he said. Earlier the patients uwould go to the only two Anti-retroviral Therapy (ART) centres at Nashik and Malegaon in the district to collect medicines. Records of people who take medicines from there are maintained along with their next date to collect the medicine. “Now, we are calling them before their due date and asking them to collecit it from nearest ICTC,” Pardeshi added.An ICTC is a primary centre where an HIV positive person is taken for testing and counselling. An HIV positive patient’s immune system is weaker than a normal person. It is more important for them to stay inside their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hiv-patients-can-get-meds-at-ictcs/articleshow/75541971.cms||pragya jain
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||Five-foot croc rescued in Vadodara||Vadodara: A crocodile was rescued from Kelanpur village on the outskirts of the city on Sunday night. The five-foot-long crocodile had entered a lake in the village a few dayago. Locals said they spotted two to three crocodiles in the lake. When one of the crocodiles killed two stray dogs and a goat that had ventured out near the lake, locals panicked and called up wildlife activists. “Villagers were scared to visit the lake for fetching water as they feared that the crocodiles may attack them. We got a call on Sunday following which a trap was set there,” said a Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteer. The reptile was handed over to forest officials. Over last two weeks, this is the third incident of a crocodile being rescued. Some days ago, a baby crocodile was spotted near Kala Ghoda Circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-foot-croc-rescued-in-vadodara/articleshow/75540748.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Poverty forced many villagers to move to Koyambedu||Trichy: Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, which had only single-digit positive cases during the Covid-19 outbreak till May 1, have witnessed a spurt ever since the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai became a hotspot. As hundreds of daily wagers in the market are natives of the two central districts, the district administrations have put the villages in the districts on high-alert. Since there are no employment opportunities for the villagers in their native places, many of them have settled for blue-collar jobs in and around Koyambedu to make both ends meet. A 36-year-old daily wager at the market owns four acres of land in Ariyalur. Since his field is rainfed, he abandoned farming to work as a load man in the Koyambedu market. “We earn Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 a day from the market. The amount is adequate to educate our children back home. Farming is an expensive occupation for us now, it is difficult to cultivate and maintain farmhands,” the Covid-19 positive patient told TOI. The daily wagers are mostly form Jayankondam, Udayarpalayam, Veppur, Ponparappi and Kaikaati hamlets in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Most of them are working in the Koyambedu market for years. The success stories of a few earning at least Rs 25,000 a month attracted youngsters in the villagers to take up the baton. They are employed as load men, waiters in tea shops and hotels and some of them sell snacks in the market. “Koyambedu market helped me enroll my daughter in a private school. Back home, we do not get such a job. Why would we leave our family and village if we get the same salary in our native place,” another 37-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Ariyalur said. The daily wagers, who have farmlands in the districts, said that they took up the job to ensure a struggle-free life for their families. They visit their families once in a few months. But the recent visit was not sweet as they have been tested positive for Covid-19. The 20+ positive cases in the two districts have returned in vegetable trucks between April 26 and May 1. “While the dalits in the villages of Ariyalur and Perambalur settle for a daily wage job in Koyambedu, people from upper castes manage to find jobs in the gulf countries and south-east Asian nations. The dalits don’t have any other options, most of the youngsters rarely spend their life in villages,” Saravanan Karunanidhi, block coordinator, Perambalur, Barefoot Academy of Governance, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poverty-forced-many-villagers-to-move-to-koyambedu/articleshow/75541941.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 5, 2020||Indore||No relief for Indore in lockdown 3.0||Indore: On first day of nationwide lockdown 3.0, Indore district administration issued ‘guidelines’ giving no relaxation to the common man. According to the district collector Manish Singh, there is no change in provisions of existing lockdown rules and the same will continue in days to come to check spread of the disease. No liquor, bhang and other shops accept the already exempted chemist shops, will open till next order. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation and any decision, including giving relaxation in lockdown rules, will be taken on the basis of any change,” said collector appealing people to support administration’s instructions as the same are required to defeat the disease. He added to have started giving permission to persons, who are stuck here and want to return to their hometown in different states. “The process will be completed in next 4-5 days,” said Singh, adding that the process of giving permission for interstate movement to the people will be provided thereafter. The collector added that private clinics will remain shut while specific and separate orders will be issued on giving relaxation, if any, to any service or industry in days to come. He warned the people, commercial, private establishments of facing appropriate actions if found violating lockdown rules. Kolhapur district administration of Maharashtra approached its counterpart in Indore and coordinated to help 34 students, who had come here on a study tour but got stuck in the lockdown, to return home. According to senior administrative officials, the students had come with their teacher here in March on training. To help them returning to their home, Kolhapur collector has sought help from Indore collector on e-mail and has said that all the required arrangements of their transportation will be made by Maharashtra government. In the case, Indore administration has granted required permission. A huge crowd of outsiders, who want to return to their hometown, turned up at the collectorate to get permission. Most of the people were however stopped at the gate and they couldn’t meet officials to file application. The senior administrative officials claimed to give permission to 52 private vehicles and two buses to take the outsiders to their hometown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-relief-for-indore-in-lockdown-3-0/articleshow/75543081.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Two more die of Covid-19 in Solapur, 7 test positive||KOLHAPUR: Solapur witnessed two more deaths on Sunday including a woman who had delivered twins, taking the tally to eight in the district. Both deaths have been of women, aged 26 and 65 respectively. The younger of the two females was a resident of Mohol taluka in Solapur. She had earlier given birth to twins in Pandharpur, however, she had contracted the infection and was admitted at Solapur civil hospital. One of her infants had died of natural causes earlier. She was tested positive on April 26 and passed away at 11 pm on Sunday. While a 65-year-old woman passed away at the same hospital at 1 pm. As a precautionary measure, her swab sample was collected her results on May 4 revealed that she was Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, the city recorded seven new COVID-19 cases on Monday, of which five are women and two are men. According to the district administration, Nayi Jindagi area saw two cases while Shastri Nagar, New Paccha Peth, Degaon, Gendyal Chowk, and Jodbhavi Peth saw one case each. There were also two Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients in the seven cases identified. The SARI patient who tested positive for the infection was from Shastri Nagar and New Paccha Peth area. The administration said that the total number of cases in Solapur has now reached 135, with 76 men and 59 women, including eight deaths. The total number of active cases stands at 105. As many as 22 patients have recovered from the infection. On Monday, the administration received a total of 116 pending swab results out of which seven were positive while the rest 109 were negative. So far 2,258 people have been tested out of which 1,868 have tested negative and 135 have tested positive, reports of 255 samples are still pending. (With inputs from Suryakant Asabe from Solapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-more-die-of-covid-19-in-solapur-7-test-positive/articleshow/75541947.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Malappuram preps to send back over 65k guest workers||Malappuram: A special train for guest workers from Bihar which was scheduled to leave from Tirur railway station in the district on Monday was cancelled after Bihar government refused to grant permission to operate the train. On Sunday evening, district collector Jafar Malik had informed that the special train to be operated on Monday would carry 1,200 guest workers to Bihar. But on Monday morning, the district administration issued a statement informing the cancellation of the train. It said that the train was cancelled due to the lack of permission from Bihar government. As per the district administration’s estimate, a total of 65,255 guest workers are residing in the district, including 76 people from Nepal. “It would be a herculean task for the district administration to send all of them back to their home states in special trains, if all of them approach authorities seeking permission. We are hopeful that a large number of people will stay back here as the district administration has already announced some relaxation for lockdown,” said Malik. Of the total guest workers, those from West Bengal top the list with 26,997 persons. There are 5,438 persons are from Bihar, 4,633 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,421 persons from Odisha and 10,680 persons from Assam. There are 6,540 guest labourers from Tamil Nadu in the district. Malik said that all migrant workers should avail special permission to return to their home states. On Saturday, the first batch of 1,140 migrant workers from the district were sent back to Patna in Bihar in a special train from Tirur to Danapur. The collector said that arrangements to send back the second batch of guest workers from the district was completed and the next train would be operated after getting permission from Bihar government. Train for UP on Friday A train with guest workers stranded here due to the ongoing lockdown, will leave from Thrissur to Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Initially, the district authorities had announced that the train would leave on Tuesday. It was later rescheduled to Friday. Confusion about the exact destination of the train in Uttar Pradesh and delay in the responses from there, appeared to have led to the rescheduling, said railway sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/malappuram-preps-to-send-back-over-65k-guest-workers/articleshow/75540539.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||Relaxed rules ring alarm bells in Trichy||Trichy: Almost 40 days after the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, traffic snarls, deafening horns and pedestrian movement returned to Trichy city on Monday after the relaxations kicked-in. Meanwhile, several people expressed concern at the movement on roads, as positive cases continue to rise in the state. They said that the relaxation could have been implemented after May 17. Palakkarai, Cantonment, Woraiyur and Madurai road seemed like an ordinary day with large number of people venturing out and throwing caution to the wind. Serpentine queues were seen outside pharmacies, ATM rooms and restaurants. “I came out to buy medicine. There was a heavy crowd in the head post office traffic signal. I had to wait for a few minutes before crossing the junction” Shabbeer Hussain, a resident of Khajamalai said. Textile outlets in Big Bazaar street and Rockfort vicinity also opened, however, there were no customers. Traders said that more number of shops might resume business from Tuesday. “The crowd on the first day of relaxation during the ongoing lockdown was certainly unusual. Even on a normal day, we have not witnessed such crowds outside ATMs and nursing homes,” K Suresh, general secretary, Trichy district AITUC said. Residents said the relaxation may cause a fresh spike in cases. The sudden surge in people venturing out also upset the city police, which said that the restrictions for the past month may go unproductive. “The district administration and senior police officials have been informed about the spurt in public movement,” a police official said on condition of anonymity. Police said they are planning to seize and penalise vehicles hitting the roads for no valid reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/relaxed-rules-ring-alarm-bells-in-trichy/articleshow/75541951.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer dargah sponsors travel of stranded pilgrims||JAIPUR: The Ajmer Dargah has paid the travel expenses of stranded pilgrims who travelled by train from Ajmer to West Bengal on Monday. Over 1,000 pilgrims who were stranded in Dargah area since the lockdown had left in a special train to their respective cities in Bengal. Four associations including the dargah committee which comes under Union ministry of minority affairs, dargah diwan family, Anjuman Moinia Fakhria Chishtia and Anjuman Syed Zadgan jointly sponsored the tickets of all passengers. “In our meeting with the district collector a few days ago, it was decided that we will bear the travel expenses of the stranded pilgrims. The total cost of today’s travel is around Rs 8 lakh as informed by the DM office,” said Shakil Ahmed, CEO, dargah committee. Syed Musabbir Chishty, a member of Anjuman said that they will continue to sponsor travel expenses of the remaining stranded pilgrims. Over 4,00 pilgrims were stranded in Ajmer since March 20. Out of these pilgrims, 3 tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-dargah-sponsors-travel-of-stranded-pilgrims/articleshow/75543965.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer dargah sponsors travel of stranded pilgrims||JAIPUR: The Ajmer Dargah has paid the travel expenses of stranded pilgrims who travelled by train from Ajmer to West Bengal on Monday. Over 1,000 pilgrims who were stranded in Dargah area since the lockdown had left in a special train to their respective cities in Bengal. Four associations including the dargah committee which comes under Union ministry of minority affairs, dargah diwan family, Anjuman Moinia Fakhria Chishtia and Anjuman Syed Zadgan jointly sponsored the tickets of all passengers. “In our meeting with the district collector a few days ago, it was decided that we will bear the travel expenses of the stranded pilgrims. The total cost of today’s travel is around Rs 8 lakh as informed by the DM office,” said Shakil Ahmed, CEO, dargah committee. Syed Musabbir Chishty, a member of Anjuman said that they will continue to sponsor travel expenses of the remaining stranded pilgrims. Over 4,00 pilgrims were stranded in Ajmer since March 20. Out of these pilgrims, 3 tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-dargah-sponsors-travel-of-stranded-pilgrims/articleshow/75552252.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Central team from Kolkata inst to start health survey today||KOLKATA: A two-member central health team, comprising Aparajita Dasgupta and Lina Bandoadhyay from All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health experts, will make the rounds of containment zones in various parts of Kolkata on Tuesday for a reality check. The two preventive and social medicine experts are scheduled to meet health authorities, collect data and prepare a report on how Covid-19 is being managed in the city. The Centre on Sunday decided to deploy 20 central public health teams in as many Covid-19-affected districts to help the different states implement containment strategies drafted to combat the contagious novel coronavirus and its effects. The 20 districts — in nine states besides Delhi — are Mumbai, Thane and Pune in Maharashtra, Bhopal and Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat, South East and Central districts in Delhi, Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan, Agra and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, Hyderabad in Telangana, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Kolkata in Bengal and Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna in Andhra Pradesh. All 20 districts are in the Red Zone, indicating a high number of Covid-19 cases. Pointing out that they looked for cooperation from the state government, the two experts have sent their plan of action to Nabanna and also requested to meet health officials at Swasthya Bhavan on Tuesday, before they start their work on collecting data. According to a senior Nabanna official, the team had asked for the latest map of containment zones of Kolkata and all the data related to Covid-19 cases, deaths and the patients who have recovered and returned home. “The team has also expressed their desire to visit Covid-treatment hospitals and check the safety measures implemented at some of the private and state hospitals. They will be moving around only in Kolkata,” the official said. The official pointed out the experts wanted to know details on the trail of the virus and how the health department planned to combat it in a later stages. They have reportedly asked for all the novel coronavirus-related guidelines issued by the health department. The notification from the health ministry stated the team would report to the health secretary . “They will submit the report to the health secretary, giving their observations, areas of improvement and recommendations,” the Nabanna official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-team-from-kol-inst-to-start-health-survey-today/articleshow/75543104.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||ST shifts stranded students to Haryana, Himachal Pradesh||Nagpur: Like the Indian Railways, which is running ‘Shramik Specials’ to ferry stranded migrants, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is playing a crucial role in taking stranded students and migrants to their homes. On Monday, a MSRTC bus left with 22 Navodaya Vidyalaya students to Himachal Pradesh from Shegaon (Buldhana). The students had come here under an exchange programme but were stranded during lockdown. “We shifted these students after request from district administration. Similarly, 22 students from Navodaya School in Navegaon Khairi in Nagpur district were taken to Haryana on Friday. The bus returned on Monday. MSRTC was paid around Rs3.28 lakh for these two interstate trips by the school managements,” said Shivaji Jagtap, deputy general manager (DyGM), Vidarbha. The MSRTC also brought 160 migrants from Gadchiroli district, who were dropped at Maharashtra border by Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments. On Sunday, 140 migrants, who headed for Uttar Pradesh in a train from Nagpur, were brought in eight buses from Bhandara. Jagtap said though it will take time to start full-fledged bus operations, administration has allowed 50% operations within Gadchiroli district, which is in green zone. The MSRTC has started 10 trips to tehsil places like Armori, Sironcha, Asarali and other towns from bus depots in Aheri and Gadchiroli. Buses are being operated on demand from public. “We will operate buses on demand by district administration,” said Jagtap. While no bus operations can be started in red zones as per the government guidelines, district like Wardha, which is in green zone, has also been hit as it borders Yavatmal and Nagpur districts which are in red zone. Similar is the case with Amravati, Bhandara and Chandrapur districts, which are in orange zone, but border districts in red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/st-shifts-stranded-students-to-haryana-himachal-pradesh/articleshow/75543093.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Virus lies dormant, no new case in city after 22 days||Lucknow: After a gap of 22 days, no case of Covid-19 was reported in the city on Monday, much to the relief of the health department. Earlier, it was April 12 when the state capital had recorded no case. Meanwhile, five more patients were discharged from various hospitals on Monday. So far, 237 cases have been reported in the city since the outbreak on March 11, of whom 82 have been discharged, while one died during treatment. The health department on Monday issued a list of 53 hospitals, including 29 government and 24 private, which are equipped for the treatment of emergency patients while following coronavirus infection prevention protocol laid down by the Indian Council for Medical Research. The list includes KGMU, SGPGIMS, RMLIMS, Balrampur and SPM Civil hospitals that have super-speciality and semi-super speciality facilities. Health department also directed private hospitals/pathologies to screen and maintain record history of each patient who comes for treatment, including for emergency care. Thermal scanning of all visitors will have to be done at the entrance gate. Covid-19 test of patients admitted in the hospital will have to be done. Hospitals will have to reserve a separate OT for emergency operation. While emergency surgical cases will be attended immediately and swab samples for test can be sent later, in remaining cases, Covid-19 test will have to done before surgical interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-lies-dormant-no-new-case-in-city-after-22-days/articleshow/75543968.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||In Kurnool, 29 Covid-19 patients discharged||TIRUPATI: The spike in Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district continues. With 25 new cases reported on Monday, the district’s tally is now 491, just nine cases short of the 500-mark. The 491 positive tally includes 10 deaths, 115 recoveries including 29 on Monday, and 366 active cases who are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the district. Of the 29 discharged patients, there are 25 men and four women. “Eleven of them are aged between 50 to 70 years. Others are aged between 15 to 50 years. While 22 of the 29 patients are from Kurnool city, two each are from Nandyal and Atmakur regions. One patient each among the discharged are from Kodumur and Krishnagiri in the district. One Telangana patient who was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital here and recovered fully has also been discharged,” district collector G Veerapandian said. He further said that 11,810 community quarantines have been set up across the district to tackle the migrant workers who are expected to return in the coming days. “We have so far collected 14,606 samples for screening, out of which 491 samples tested positive, 13,916 suspects tested negative, while the results of 199 samples are awaited. About 3.600 suspects housed at various state quarantine facilities tested negative too and were discharged recently,” he said. Out of the 42,000 people from the district who were stranded in various places in Guntur and Prakasam districts, about 38,000 have returned to their homes. “Random sampling of the returnees have been done. All migrant labourers who returned back to the district have been placed under mandatory home quarantine period of 14 days,” the collector added. Allaying fears among the people as well as frontline workers, Veerapandian said more positive cases are being reported because the district administration has ramped up the overall number of sampling. “More medical staff have also been appointed by the government. Our appeal to the people of the district is to strictly remain indoors and adhere to the lockdown guidelines to prevent the outbreak of the novel virus’‘, he said. Meanwhile, district SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa said strict vigil is being maintained at inter-state checkposts. “Cases have been slapped against 3,930 persons under different sections of the IPC for lockdown violation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-kurnool-29-ncov-patients-discharged/articleshow/75541956.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 5, 2020||Indore||Patients in private hospitals not getting Ayushman cover||INDORE: Covid-19 patients under treatment in private hospitals except SAIMS are bound to pay the bill as these medical facilities are yet to be covered under Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. The delay in signing MoU with all Covid-19 hospitals under the red category is causing huge inconvenience to patients treated in private hospitals. In one of the cases, Indore Development Authority (IDA) had to seek district administration’s intervention to give ‘guarantee’ of making payment to a private hospital, which is treating two family members of his employee. An IDA official, who was first tested positive, was admitted to SAIMS while his wife and father were later found positive and were admitted to a private hospital of red category. One of their sons is in a quarantine facility as suspected case while another is in home isolation. In this situation, relatives managed to pay around Rs 3.5 lakh to the hospital treating IDA’s official wife and father but as the bill rose to about Rs 6 lakh, they approached the senior officials for help. “The official was involved in making required arrangements in quarantine facilities and he was found positive of Covid-19 while discharging his duty. His family’s members are expected to get infected from him and it’s our duty to help them in this tough situation,” IDA CEO Vivek Shotriya told TOI. He added that he has made a proposal to bear medical expenses of the official, who is a Corona Yoddha, and his family members through consent of the board of directors. On his request, collector has asked the private hospital to not to demand remaining bill amount as the same will be paid by IDA in one installment. “We have signed MoU with SAIMS while the similar process is underway with Choithram Hospital. We can’t wait for MoU and immediately put around 15 private hospitals in red category to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients, which was our first priority,” CMHO Dr Pravin Jadia told TOI. He added that after reporting positive to the disease, bearing medical expenses of the patient, irrespective of their financial condition, is the government’s responsibility. “It’s expected to take next 10 days to sign MoU with all the private hospitals under red and red-cum-yellow category under Ayushman Bharat scheme. Thereafter, medical expenses of all patients treated there will be reimbursed through Red Cross Society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/patients-in-pvt-hospitals-not-getting-ayushman-cover/articleshow/75543091.cms||Sagar Choukse
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Institutional quarantine not for all entrants’||KOLHAPUR: The civic administration has decided to develop facilities at schools, public halls and hostels with a total capacity of 10,000 beds so that those coming from outside the city can be put in institutional quarantine. Civic chief of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) clarified that not everyone coming to the city would be put in institutional quarantine. “Firstly, those coming from outside will be screened at the district borders by a team of doctors. Those having high temperature or symptoms related to Covid-19 will be mandatorily put in institutional quarantine. Those who do not have adequate space at home will also be put in institutional quarantine,” said Kalshetti. The clarification comes after many people willing to return to the city sought to know whether they will be put in institutional quarantine after arrival. The applicants feel that they can wait till the end of lockdown instead of spending two weeks in quarantine. “We are receiving applications from a large number of people, mainly students and migrant workers who are stranded in other parts of the state. The data will be analysed by two officers based on the urgency, location and number of people travelling. The data of the applicants will be provided to the ward-level committees which will decide whether to put the person in institutional or home-quarantine,” said the municipal commissioner adding that people would be stamped for identification purpose. Kalshetti said that he has directed the ward-level committees to find out the infrastructure available in their respective wards. The beds and sanitation facilities will be set up in the quarantine facilities with provision for food. “We are taking steps to ensure those wanting to return to their hometown travel in batches and not in one lot.” Kalshetti said that he had received a request from 48 migrant workers from Nejdar Colony area, who want to return to their hometown in Karnataka. He said that their health status would be checked and be allowed to travel only if they could arrange for their own transportation without violating social distancing norms. Private cars are allowed but not more than three people, including the driver, will be alllowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/institutional-quarantine-not-for-all-entrants/articleshow/75541965.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Indore||Indore: 106, including a six-month-old girl, defeat corona, discharged from hospital||INDORE: Seven family members including a six-month-old girl and her 32-year-old mother were discharged from SAIMS on Monday after they got cured of Covid-19 infection. These seven people were among 106 people, who got discharged from hospitals on Monday after beating coronavirus. Fifty people were discharged from Index Medical College, 47 were from SAIMS hospital, 2 from Choithram Hospital and seven from Water Lily in the day. Nine members of the family of six-month-old girl were tested positive and seven were discharged while her father died. Maternal uncle of girl, who was also discharged after getting cured from hospital said, “Husband of my sister died because of Covid-19 infection on April 6. All family members got infection from him as he was tested positive after death.” But, because of god’s grace and dedicated work of health worker in SAIMS, we all got discharged, said 44-year-old. The 10-year-old daughter of my sister is still in SAIMS and will be discharged by tomorrow as her two reports were found negative, added the man. She couldn’t be discharged with us because her reports came late, said the man. He said, “The doctors and health workers treated us like family and had taken care of all necessities. The six month old niece was provided milk on time.” It helped us in getting cured from the Covid-19 disease, added the man. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD SAIMS said, “There were 20 people among 47, who were admitted to ICU immediately when came to hospital 15 days back. Some of the discharged persons were also having uncontrolled diabetes, moderate to severe ADRS, co-morbidities.” These 20 people were requiring 10litre oxygen a day initially. But, we have managed and luckily they have survived the infection, said Dosi. It was the toughest batch of infected persons, who got cured so far, added Dosi. With this the number of discharged person in the district touched 468. Indore reported 1611 positive cases till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/106-including-a-six-month-old-girl-defeat-corona-discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/75543096.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Unchecked entry of migrants may lead to mass spread of Covid-19, worry local administartion||JAIPUR: A migrant worker from Gujarat who crossed over to Kasba village in Dungarpur without permission has tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening, making him the sixth positive case in the tribal district who crossed over from another state without screening. Officials said the latest person to be tested positive came from Gujarat on April 17. The health workers have asked him to stay put in home isolation for 14 days. He, however, was caught flouting the rules and was sent to the state-run quarantine facility in a school on April 23. His first report on April 24 was negative while his second report on May 3 turned out to be positive. The entire village has been sealed by police and they have started tracing his contacts. All seven positive cases in Dungarpur have similar travel history. It has increased the worry of the administration about the mass spread of Covid-19 in bordering districts due to their entry through villages, forests and farmlands. Officially the administration has identified 616 such migrants, while their actual number is very high since April 26. Sensing the gravity of the situation, the chief medical health officer (CMHO) Mahesh Parmar of Dungarpur has launched a drive by reaching out to villages and convincing the villagers on loudspeakers to report the entry of any migrant in their village. “Most of these migrants are walking from their host cities and before arriving in their respective villages they are coming in contact of several persons throughout their journey,” said Parmar. Meanwhile, the Ratanpur checkpoint between Rajasthan and Gujarat continues to be flooded by migrant workers lined up for screening and registration to enter Rajasthan on the eighth consecutive day. Due to the fear of being sent to quarantine facility and to avoid long queues, several people are choosing alternative paths to enter the state. Krashna Rajsingh, a social worker, said the manner in which migrants are entering in some districts, including Dungarpur, without following proper protocol will result in a disaster in the next 8 to 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unchecked-entry-of-migrants-may-lead-to-mass-spread-of-covid-19-worry-local-admins/articleshow/75543976.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid deaths: Average hospital stay is 3 days||Ahmedabad: Around 18% of the Covid-19 deaths in Ahmedabad city took place on the day of the patient’s admission, either at Civil Hospital or SVP Hospital. For the 180 deaths analysed, the average stay in hospital was just three days. Around 22% of the patient died on the day after their admission. AMC officials said that in only seven of the 180 deaths did the patient stay for 10 or more days in hospital. The longest stay in hospital of those who died was 14 days, a 69-year-old male who was admitted on April 3 and died on April 17. The second longest surviving patient was a 69-year-old male admitted on April 17 who died on April 30. In both cases, the patients had co-morbid conditions. Officials said 19% of deaths occurred on the third day of hospitalization. Thus 60% of the deaths occurred in the first three days of hospitalization. A senior officer said that around two-thirds of patients who died had co-morbid conditions such as diabetics, asthma, hypertension, tuberculosis, hypothyroidism, liver cirrhosis among others. Officials said that till May 3, 101 deaths were reported from the AMC Central Zone, comprising Khadia, Jamalpur, Dariapur, Shahpur, Asarwa and Shahibaug areas. The majority, 70, were reported from Jamalpur ward. The officials said that of the 101 deaths in the Walled City, 24% had died solely of Covid-19. Of the 180 deaths, 50% were in the 40-60 age group and 25% were in the 60-70 age group. Around 17% of deaths were in of those older than 70, while 10% were younger than 40. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that evidence from the ground suggests reluctance among people to go to the hospital. In areas such as Jamalpur Danilimda, Behrampura and the Walled City, people were reluctant to give samples and teams were also attacked in places such as Gomtipur. “To find the reasons for this reluctance we met doctors in the area, and learned that one major factor is the long period of hospitalization required. In some cases it has been observed that patients died within hours of hospitalisation. We are now taking measures to change this situation and the mortality rate is also improving,” said Nehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-deaths-average-hospital-stay-is-3-days/articleshow/75543242.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Blood clots reason for majority Covid-19 deaths, says SMS hospital||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Hospital doctors are finding blood clots in the lungs of Covid-19 patients which is making prognosis difficult leading to deaths. Doctors claimed that it was not the pneumonia which was damaging the lungs but clotting disorders. At SMS Hospital, more than 40 persons have died or have been brought dead who tested positive. The hospital has been developed as a tertiary coronavirus treatment centre, which has provided treatment to more than 600 patients. The hospital is using the latest technique to diagnose clotting disorder among Covid-19 patients. “We are conducting CT pulmonary angiography and ultrasound of lungs to examine the condition of Covid-19 patients. We have found that most of the critical patients are presented with clotting disorder with elevated d-dimers,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College. “The clots are clogging pulmonary vessels causing death of patients,” said Dr Bhandari, who is part of the five-member core group of doctors for treatment of Covid-19 patients constituted by the government. The other members of the group are Dr Prakash Keswani, Dr S Banerjee, Dr Raman Sharma and Dr Ajit Singh. They pointed out that clotting in lungs affects the prognosis of patients. The disorder makes it difficult for patients to recover and a lot of them land in ICU for intensive care. Doctors claimed that patients develop thrombosis (blood clots) leading to pulmonary embolism, which is a condition in which clot travels into lungs and blocks the pulmonary vessels. Doctors have also discovered that d-dimers, a fibrin degradation product generated from blood clots, which gives indication to doctors that the patient is at the risk of pulmonary embolism. The d-dimers increase in the presence of pulmonary embolism. “We conduct tests to find out levels of d-dimers and we find the elevated levels of d-dimers in critical Covid-19 patients,” said the doctors. The Covid-19 patients are brought to hospitals with excessive blood clotting disorder, which is a major cause of death of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/blood-clots-reason-for-majority-covid-deaths-sms-hosp/articleshow/75543983.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Sale of liquor will escalate Covid-19, crime, fear experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Social distancing measures went for a toss as people thronged liquor outlets even in containment zones as soon as liquor shops opened shutters on Monday morning. Doctors, social psychologists, activists, lawyers and NGOs said opening liquor shops is counter-productive and efforts taken to contain the virus will be meaningless in view of Monday’s chaos. Experts added that besides Covid-19 cases, instances of domestic violence, child abuse and crime and accidents under the influence of alcohol will also escalate. The NGO, Nature, on behalf of other social organisations, will give a representation to the chief minister’s office (CMO), the Union ministry of home affairs and Niti Aayog for both Centre and state governments to reconsider their decision and continue with the ban on sale of liquor, said S Balaraju, executive director of Nature. Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent and professor of psychiatry at Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) said, “The ban could have been extended for another two weeks or till month-end. It is not at all a good idea to encourage people to step out to buy alcohol as social distancing norms are violated even in red zones.” Advocate and child rights activist Abdul Raqueeb said, “Black marketing of liquor, stocking up by middlemen will increase now and alcohol in the possession of rowdy sheeters, unemployed youth, students, poor people will only worsen the situation. While Covid control measures have gone for a toss and damage is done in a single day, more alcohol-related crimes like abusing children and domestic violence will also take place now when the excise and criminal courts are mostly closed.” Sociologist and retired professor of social work at Andhra University ABSV Ranga Rao said if the government is keen to keep wine shops open, enforcement of social distancing and other guidelines should be followed and sale should be limited between 7 am to 11 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sale-of-liquor-will-escalate-covid-crime-fear-experts/articleshow/75542010.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Experts slam EIA 2020 draft for lack of public participation in vetting projects||Nagpur: More opposition is pouring in against the new draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020, which the Centre plans to replace with EIA 2006. Experts who submitted their views to MoEFCC slammed the proposal for easing processes for business, simplifying rules for expansion of projects and doing away with public hearings for many projects.EIA is an important procedure for ensuring that the likely effects of new developments on the environment are fully understood and taken into account before the development is allowed to go ahead.A group of experts and researchers with Centre for Policy Research — Namati Environmental Justice Program said the EIA draft is not clear on third party monitoring. The CPR is working on action-based research projects with communities affected by non-compliance of environmental safeguards in four states — Gujarat, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Odisha.“The draft notification mentions government institutions of national repute would conduct third party monitoring. However, there is ambiguity about these institutions, how will these be chosen, and in which instances will these institutions work. This is important because credibility of these institutions has also been questioned in several instances. The CAG report in 2016 had revealed there were inadequacies in monitoring by third party agencies in 201 projects,” says Manju Menon, senior fellow with CPR.“Our experience of missing public participation in the proposed ‘third party’ monitoring experience of environmental violations shows that in 235 cases environmental non-compliance has affected close to 3 lakh people,” she adds.Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani says the new EIA draft is all about ease of business, ignoring the threats nature is giving us in the form of micro organisms. It proposes to simplify rules for expansion of projects, doing away with public hearings for many types of projects.“The proposed draft, if brought into effect in present form, will bring disaster for environment and ecology of the country. It will be a huge setback for environment, forests and wildlife as all are interconnected,” said Jeswani.In environmental process, public hearing and consultation is an integral part, which gives right to locals and stakeholders to raise their voice and concern about getting affected by the probable impacts of the project. The new draft says units can be expanded without public consultation before getting environment clearance.The draft exempts public consultations for projects including modernization of irrigation projects, buildings, construction and area development projects, inland waterways, expansion or widening of national highways, all projects concerning national defence and security or involving ‘other strategic considerations’ as determined by the central government, all linear projects like pipelines in border areas, and all the offshore projects located beyond 12 nautical miles.Jeswani feels ‘strategic project’ word is newly introduced in latest draft by MoEFCC, which exempts such projects from public consultation, leaving ample room and scope for government to designate any project and bring it within the ambit of this category.The lawyer says the new notification ends up diluting entire pubic consultation aspect by reducing the time period from 30 to 20 days within which public has to submit responses during a public hearing of any project seeking environment clearances. Due to short period people concerned will not get enough time to study and ascertain the environmental impact of projects.EIA 2006 notification asked project proponents to submit a report every 6 months on compliances. However, the new draft extends it to once in a year. The proposed draft is relying heavily on self-certification by project proponents rather than strengthening monitoring environment conditions.“Many provisions of proposed draft attempt to throttle various orders of NGT. The draft bypasses several judgements of courts only with a view to ease development against the principles of sustainable development. The draft reintroduces District Level Environment Assessment Authority (DEIAA) which was scrapped by NGT,” Jeswani said.THE LOOPHOLES* Details related to institutions of national repute needed to address challenges of conflict of interest and quality of assessments* Need to disclose funding details for proposed monitoring protocol prior to accepting amendment* Need for monitoring framework based on addressing impacts* Missing public participation in proposed ‘third party’ monitoring* Draft bypasses several court rulings to ease business against principles of sustainable development||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-slam-eia-2020-draft-for-lack-of-public-participation-in-vetting-projects/articleshow/75543124.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Liquor shops in TN to open on May 7||Chennai: Liquor shops in TN will reopen on May 7 in areas where Covid-19 is under control and will function between 10 am and 5 pm, said a release by the state government on Monday. “Shops in Covid-19 hotspots will not be opened. But in other areas, they will be opened with some precautions,” said the statement. No decision has been made on opening of bars. There should be no crowding outside the outlets, social distancing – a gap of six metres – should be followed between two customers and there should not be more than four people near the shop at any given point in time, it said. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran condemned the move. “The decision by the Tamil Nadu government to open Tasmac outlets from May 7 is atrocious and should be condemned. When the number of positive cases are on the rise by hundreds in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu, the decision to open liquor shops is akin to playing with people’s lives,” Dhinakaran tweeted. “The Edappadi K Palaniswami government should withdraw this irresponsible decision,” said Dhinakaran in the tweet on Monday evening. The government has instructed the Tasmac department to appoint more staff and engage more security guards for the shops. The statement cited opening of liquor shops in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka as the reason for Tamil Nadu also moving on similar lines. People residing close to the borders were crossing over to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to buy liquor and security agencies were finding it tough to prevent it, the statement said. The government has been losing about Rs 90 crore revenue a day due to closure of Tasmac shops since the lockdown began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/liquor-shops-in-tn-to-open-on-may-7/articleshow/75543990.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Suicide abetment accused tests positive, five cops quarantined||LUDHIANA: Three days after an 18-year-old man was arrested on the charge of suicide abetment, he tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday. After receiving his report, the administration quarantined his 13 contacts, including five cops and four family members. It is the third such incident in the district wherein an accused tested positive a few days after arrest. The man, a student of Class XII, was arrested on April 30, 21 days after his classmate, also 18, committed suicide at her house. The woman’s mother had told the police, “My daughter had hanged herself from a ceiling fan on the night of April 9. Days later, we learned that her classmate had raped her after befriending her. He had her objectionable pictures and videos and was blackmailing her. After he blocked her cellphone number, she took her life.” After a medical examination on May 1, the man was sent to Ludhiana Central Jail. There, he was kept in an isolation centre for new inmates. Ludhiana chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said, “After the accused tested positive, his direct contacts, including police personnel and family members, have been home quarantined. His other contacts are being traced.” Assistant commissioner of police (Industrial Area-A) Vaibhav Sehgal said, “Five cops, included two ASIs and three constables, of Mundiya police post and Jamalpur police station, four of his family members and four members of the deceased woman’s family came in his contact.” His family and cops are wondering how he got infected. The accused’s father said, “My son was depressed after the death of his classmate and so, he did not go anywhere. Besides, we did not allow him to go out due to the pandemic. On April 10, he had gone to his classmate’s house to meet her family. After that twice he had gone to Mundiya police post and Jamalpur police station to join investigation and every time I accompanied him.”  “Even before his classmate’s death, my son hardly went out. None at our house, including him, has any Covid-19 symptoms. We are clueless how he contracted the disease,” The accused has now been shifted to Ludhiana civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/suicide-abetment-accused-tests-positive-five-cops-quarantined/articleshow/75541986.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Tipplers, smokers strive hard to keep spirits high||LUCKNOW: Almost a week after the enforcement of lockdown, a city girl sought her friend’s help to contact a therapist for her 45-year-old father who is addicted to liquor. Due to non-availability of alcohol, he was unable to sleep and had started hallucinating. “Once he started claiming that a group of people are beating him in front of his family. Sometimes, he gets so aggressive that he starts hurling household articles at me,” she said. Many other people in the city are experiencing withdrawal symptoms, triggered by sudden unavailability of liquor. According to city-based therapists and psychiatrists, they are getting more calls from people addicted to liquor or smoking who are now experiencing withdrawal symptoms like seizure, epilepsy, aggression and suicidal symptoms. Kartikey Kumar of Lalbagh has been trying to quit smoking for 29 years but failed. “I used to smoke 10-13 cigarettes a day but since lockdown, I am smoking 5-6. The cut down hasn’t been easy. Last Sunday, I had bouts of anger as I could not smoke,” he said. Neha Anand, a city-based psychologist and UNICEF mental health practitioner, said: “I have been getting frequent calls regarding withdrawal symptoms, and tobacco and smoking de-addiction. Some cases have been so serious that we had to refer them to a psychiatrist and hospital for medication.” Nikhil C, a volunteer and a delegate of Alcoholics Anonymous, a self-help organisation in India and US helping people fighting alcoholism, said they were conducting online sessions in more than 50 cities in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tipplers-smokers-strive-hard-to-keep-spirits-high/articleshow/75544002.cms||Aditi Singh
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Relaxation in lockdown rules keeps police on toes||KOLHAPUR: Relaxation in lockdown has brought scores of people on the streets putting extra pressure on the already stressed police department. As per the new norm, standalone shops and offices can function with 33% staff. Owing to this many shops opened for business on Monday. Police are now patrolling the city to ensure that social distancing norm is followed. As per instructions issued by the police department, they will resort to strict surveillance from 7pm to 7am to ensure that all the shops and business activities remain shut and people follow the lockdown rules. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh conducted the meeting of senior police officers from Kolhapur district on Monday through video conferencing on the backdrop of lockdown’s third phase and issued instructions regarding policing activities during this relaxed phase. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police (Karveer division), said, "Shops and business activities will remain shut from 7 pm to 7 am. We have been instructed to convey the message to all police officer to ensure that these rules will be followed from Monday. Police teams have started patrolling roads after 7 pm and are ensuring that the shops remain shut." Amrutkar also said that they have increased the surveillance in containment zones to ensure that rules are strictly followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/relaxation-in-lockdown-rules-keeps-police-on-toes/articleshow/75541996.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Cantonment hospital arranges for 20 isolation beds||NASHIK: The Cantonment Board Hospital in Deolali has made arrangements of 20 isolation beds after a Covid-19 positive patient was found in the area on Saturday. The medical superintendent of the hospital Jayashree Natesh said that the staff is ready to handle Covid-19 cases. “We are prepared for any emergency in our hospital. We have currently made arrangements for 20 isolation beds and we also have the provision to arrange for more beds if the need arises,” she said. According to Natesh, 12 close contacts of the positive patient are kept in the hospital’s isolation wards. The person, who was tested positive of the infection on Saturday is being treated in the civil hospital. He is a resident of the Deolali area, who works in the Army’s supply depot. “There is a man, who works for the positive patient in his house. He is at a high risk as he is showing symptoms of the disease. We have sent his swab for testing and have kept him in the isolation ward of the hospital,” she added. Natesh said that the other 11 people are not showing any Covid-19 symptoms currently but are staying in isolation at the hospital. They will be tested if the high-risk person is found positive. “This is the first case in our area and we are taking all necessary precautions. We will ensure that the disease doesn’t infect others. Also if there are more people to be isolated from our area, we will arrange for it at our hospital,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantonment-hosp-arranges-for-20-isolation-beds/articleshow/75542002.cms||pragya jain
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Weary migrant workers stage protests, want to be sent back||VIJAYAWADA: Migrants workers across the state have begun staging protests demanding that they be sent back home. In West Godavari, 300 sand workers staged a protest demanding that they be either given food and shelter or be sent back to their home towns. Speaking to TOI, Eluru range DIG, KV Mohan Rao said more than 2,000 migrant labourers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand have been working in underwater sand excavation in Godavari sand reaches at Kovvur in West Godavari for the last 10 months. After the Centre’s announcement with regard to migrant labourers, he said they have started staging protests. They want permission to go to their home towns on foot. But police have stopped them. On the other hand, in Dachepalli, another 150 migrant workers from Kurnool district have held protests demanding the same. Meanwhile, with the third phase of lockdown kicking off, several stranded migrant workers resumed their journey homes on foot from Prakasam, Guntur, Kurnool, Kadapa, Srikakulam and Anantapur districts. Some of the angry protestors pelted stones at the police and they in turn resorted to mild lathicharge. The migrants labourers have been told that it will take a couple of days to send them as nodal officers, DRMs and other officials of various states have to be consulted, and random sample tests and thermal scanning is mandatory before that,” KV Mohan Rao said. Meanwhile, the South Central Railways (SCR) is yet to announce special trains from Andhra Pradesh and have made it clear that the trains would run only upon the request of respective state governments. Sources, however, said that requests have been made from the government for special trains heading towards Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/weary-migrant-workers-stage-protests-want-to-be-sent-back/articleshow/75542019.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||With new cases in Nagpur, Akola & Amravati, Vid surpasses 400 mark||NAGPUR: Except Yavatmal, all red zone districts in Vidarbha recorded new confirmed cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases in region to 404. Nagpur and Akola recorded nine cases each, while Amravati recorded 5 new cases. In Washim, swab samples of a UP-based truck cleaner, who had died on May 2 due to acute respiratory illness, tested positive on Monday. But technically, Washim retained its Covid-free tag as new patient is already dead and district has no active case in hospitals. District administration has started contact tracing of the deceased. Officials and workers on a petrol pump where he had halted on May 1 are now quarantined. Overall, 24 new cases came to fore in Vidarbha on Monday. Out of the 404 cases recorded in Vidarbha so far, 101 patients have recovered and discharged. After 19 deaths and one suicide, the region now has 283 active cases. More than 75% of these patients are asymptomatic and expected to recover in next two weeks. Nagpur has highest 160 cases in the region. On Monday, cases were reported from Dobi Nagar, Ansar Nagar, Satranjipura and Yashodhara Nagar localities. These include a six-month old baby girl who happens to be the youngest Covid-19 patient from the city. Vidarbha’s youngest patient is a 3.5 months old baby in Buldhana. Akola has a high doubling rate. Out of the nine cases reported in Akola on Monday, five are from Krushi Nagar locality, while one each from Kothadi Bazar, Lal Bangla, Baidpura and from Antri village of Balapur tehsil in Akola. Officials told TOI that the patient from Antri village used to visit Akola frequently and came in contact with one of the earlier positive patients. Akola is observing a complete lockdown from May 3. From Tuesday, shops of essential goods will remain open on odd dates and city will be completely shut on even dates. Janata curfew in Amravati District collector Shailesh Naval has announced janata curfew in Amravati on coming Saturday and Sunday. “With five new positive cases detected on Monday, the count has gone up to 60 in the district. It is very necessary to arrest this spread by taking stringent measures,” said Naval. A 13-year-old boy of Kholapuri Gate locality tested positive after the administration received 54 swab reports on Monday morning. The remaining 53 tested negative. An official said that the boy is not from the contacts of previously found patients from this locality. So, his family members and contacts were put into institutional quarantine. Kholapuri Gate has now 11 cases. In the 24 reports received in the evening, four tested positive. They included a 28-year-old youth from Habib Nagar, a new locality to report a Covid-19 case, a 30-year-old man from Shirala village in Chandur Bazar tehsil and two youths aged 22 and 25 from Hanuman Nagar locality. Yavatmal women who delivered on Saturday Sunday test negative The two women who delivered babies on Saturday and Sunday in the isolation ward have tested negative. Their newborns are also free from Covid-19. Both of them were shifted to the maternity ward where they are stable. They will be discharged probably on Tuesday, hospital sources said. A patient from the containment area, who is due for delivery, was brought to the gynaecology ward. Since her placenta is intact, she will have a normal delivery shortly, said a source. There are few more women from the containment areas who are due for delivery and they are under medical team’s observation. On Monday, the district administration has received 42 test reports of whom 37 tested negative. The remaining five who tested positive are all contacts of earlier positive patients. Four of them tested positive the second time. On Sunday, a patient tested positive in the fourth consecutive test during his 30 days stay in the isolation ward since April 10. On Monday, there were 81 positive patients in the isolation wards. Only three reports are now awaited. 2 contacts of Chandrapur patient test negative The administration is awaiting with crossed fingers the results of Covid-19 samples of the family members and neighbours of the lone positive patient from Chandrapur. Civil surgeon Dr ND Rathod claimed that out of the seven samples taken from the contacts of the patient, two were found negative. Five more test reports including three of family members are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-new-cases-in-nagpur-akola-amravati-vid-surpasses-400-mark/articleshow/75543997.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 5, 2020||Kochi||Over 500 people cross over through Walayar||Palakkad: District collector D Balamurali has said that 241 vehicles and 568 persons were allowed entry to the state through the inter-state Walayar check post on Monday. Most of them came in car taxies or in personal vehicles. They were allowed to enter the state after strict examination by the health staff. They came with the required documents from other states, the collector said. He said that in five vehicles 7 persons had left the state through Walayar check post on Monday. 18 counters were set up at the check post for screening the vehicles entering and exiting the state, which working round-the-clock for speedy clearance. The collector said majority of the people who crossed Walayar were from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-500-people-cross-over-through-walayar/articleshow/75540635.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Government offices, few pvt firms reopen, full-fledged ops to start after May 17||KOLHAPUR: Many government offices as well as the private offices related to commercial activities, construction, trading and banks reopened on Monday after a gap of over a month. Among the government offices, the collector’s office, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the police department were working with full strength since the lockdown was imposed on March 24. On Monday, queues were observed at the Kolhapur Zilla Parishad and other revenue offices like the Karveer tehsil office and the sub-divisional office. All the employees completed the pending works and cleared the files that were tabled even before the lockdown. The flow of citizens into the government offices is likely to increase in the coming few days after information reaches people that the offices have started their operations. However, according to officials of the district administration, all the activities related to revenue and other government departments will start in full force from May 17—the day when the third phase of the lockdown is supposed to end. Citizens have been advised not to come out on roads or visit offices until there is an urgent issue that needs attention. A large number of people visited banks, post offices and LIC offices to pay their pending instalments. Though district collector Daulat Desai has issued a notification asking banks to start full-fledged operations from Monday, most establishments were open only for half-day. The Kolhapur District Cooperative Bank has already started working full time from last two weeks as it mostly deals with agriculture-related activities. The offices of transport, courier services, various trading agencies and other businesses also reopened to review the current situation. Most of these offices were opening for the first time after March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-offices-few-pvt-firms-reopen-full-fledged-ops-to-start-after-may-17/articleshow/75542035.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||First batch of 1,200 migrants leave for UP||Vadodara: The first batch of migrants started their journey to their home state in wee hours of Monday morning as a special Shramik Express left Vadodara railway station to Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh (UP). Each migrant, most of whom were staying in shelter homes since the beginning of the nation-wide lockdown, paid Rs 700 to return to their home state. The migrants had registered with Vadodara city mamlatdar’s office, got medically screened, before they were taken to railway station by midnight through city buses. Those who left in the first batch included migrants who were kept at shelter homes and had registered from Savli, Karjan, Waghodiya, Darjipura and Bhayli areas of the city. “The first batch of 1,200 migrants have left through this train. We have prepared another proposal which is being sent to UP government so that other migrants/ labourers who are stranded here and want to return to their home can do so,” said Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal, adding that similar efforts are being made with Bihar government as well. The train with 24 coaches will cover a distance of around 1,100 km to reach Lucknow from where UP government will make arrangements to send the migrants to their native districts/ villages. One coach carried 50 passengers each to maintain social distancing norms. “Our wholesale shop of flowers is closed since last two months. This has resulted in loss to the tune of Rs 1.20 lakh,” said Ram Lakhan Yadav, a young florist who sells flowers near Khanderao Market and resides in Siyabaug area. Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt along with MLAs Jitendra Sukhadiya and Seema Mohile remained present to flag off the train. Meanwhile, the mamlatdar office at Narmada Bhavan witnessed a major rush of applicants on Monday as hundreds thronged the government premises to get the necessary permission to return to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/first-batch-of-1200-migrants-leave-for-up/articleshow/75541560.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Raj runs three trains for migrants||edited 248 words Jaipur: To help migrant labourers reach their native states, Rajasthan government on Monday planned to run five trains to various destinations, but only three operated. Officials said though they were not charging from labourers, Jharkhand government had to foot the bill for ferrying home its students. On Tuesday, two trains are expected to arrive in Jaipur carrying migrant workers of Rajasthan. “According to schedule, one train from Palghar (Maharashtra) will arrive here at 8.30am while another from Bhiwandi (Maharashtra) will reach at at11.30am,” said transport commissioner Ravi Jain, who is the nodal officer coordinating with the North Western Railway (NWR) and West Central Railway(WCR). Also, train from Bengaluru will arrive at Jaipur on Wednesday morning, he added. After their arrival in Jaipur, the passengers will be thoroughly screened. “Those who have Covid-19 like symptoms will be kept in hospitals while those without symptoms will be sent to their home districts in where they will either be kept on home quarantine or institutional quarantine,” he said. “On Monday, we sent a train to Darbhanga (Bihar) from Kota, to Dankuni (West Bengal) from Ajmer and one from Kota to Danapur (Bihar),” he added. On the issue of passenger fares, he said, “We are only paying for the fares except for the train that left for Ranchi for which Jharkhand government has paid. In none of the case, passengers were asked to pay for their tickets. We are also providing them one meal and water at the time of boarding and another meal if their journey is of more than 12 hours,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-runs-three-trains-for-migrants/articleshow/75543992.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vendors issued mandatory health cards||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has issued health cards to vendors in the corporation area as they come in contact with several people, and can infect them if carrying the Covid-19 virus.Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said here on Monday that so far 11,651 vegetable vendors, milkmen, grocery shop staff among others have been screened. Total 2,714 samples were taken and 222 were found to be positive.Nehra said that in order to check spread of the infection through these vendors, the AMC has decided that it will screen all vendors, especially the vegetable vendors, and give them health cards. This card will be valid for seven days after which the vendor will have to go for the screening again.From Tuesday, estate department teams will be moving in the city to ensure that those vendors who do not have the health card do not operate. “Even the buyers should ensure that the vendor has the health certificate,” said Nehra.“We have given masks and sanitizers to each of these vendors, and soon they will be given gloves too. The buyers should also ensure that the vendor is wearing a mask, has put on his gloves and has the health card, only then they should buy from him,” the municipal chief said.He said that the city entered the third phase of the lockdown on Monday, which is very crucial. “We have to ensure that this lockdown is followed more strictly than the earlier two lockdowns,” he said.The commissioner said that the city now has a case doubling rate of 10-12 days. He said that the city is getting on an average 250-odd cases a day, which is manageable. “If the city had a case doubling rate of four days, we would have been getting about 2,000 cases per day, and with the rate of eight days, the number would have been 1,000.”He said active cases grew by 30-40% in April but in the last 10 days it was less than 10%. In the past two days, the growth rate of active cases was less than 6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vendors-issued-mandatory-health-cards/articleshow/75543246.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sindhu Bhavan area reports 3 cases||Ahmedabad: The coronavirus is pressing harder into the western part of the city. After a person tested positive in Judges Bungalow, three cases were reported in the Sindhu Bhavan area, including two staffers of a well-known supermarket. In Nehrunagar, a shopkeeper tested positive. The news stirred fear among residents who began making frantic inquiries. Officials said that the Sindhu Bhavan area recorded the first case of corona in a posh locality on the SG Highway. Also, two cases were reported in Saket Row House in Memnagar, while a case each was reported in Goyal Plaza in Bodakdev, Silver Gardenia in Gota, and Parishram Apartments in Satellite. Moreover, five cases were reported in Vejalpur, including one near the Vastrapur railway station and five in Jivrajpark. Also, one case was reported near the Ashram Road, four in Ellisbridge area, two in Ghatlodia, three each in Paldi, Chandlodia and Sarkhej, and one in Navrangpura. Of the 3,180 active cases, 304 were in the western zone, 102 in the south west zone, and 86 in the north west zone. The three zones account for 492 cases; the figure was 441 on Sunday evening. Over the past 24 hours, active cases in the western part of the city increased by 51 or 22% of the total increase of 225 active cases. On Sunday, the city had reported 2,955 cases which increased to 3,180 on Monday. The home quarantine facility has been received well by the middle-income group. About 11% of the 3,180 active cases have opted for home quarantine facility and treatment at home. According to AMC officials, just 36 patients opted for home quarantine on May 2. But over the next two days, the number increased to 345.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sindhu-bhavan-area-reports-3-cases/articleshow/75543244.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolhapur||475 two-wheelers returned, 500 more to be handed over on Tuesday||KOLHAPUR: The city traffic police returned the 475 motorcycles, that were seized from those violating lockdown norms, to their respective owners on Monday. Police also collected a fine totalling up to Rs 1.35 lakh from the violators. Vasant Babar, police inspector in-charge of the traffic department said, “While checking the original documents of the vehicles, we found many did not have driving licences. There were others who had not paid the insurance instalments. When we calculated the fine for individuals not having these documents, it went up to Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per person.” “The violators were not able to pay the fine as they did not have any money with them due to the lockdown. Hence, we asked them to submit a self-declaration stating that they will furnish their driving licences and other documents before us within a month after the lockdown. They were warned that if they did not furnish the documents, they will have to pay the fine amount to the traffic department,” said Babar adding that a nominal fine of Rs 200 was slapped on the violators and the motorcyclesw were returned. “We will return the remaining 500 motorcycles to the respective owners on Tuesday. We have asked the motorcycle owners to come with the original documents at police headquarters on Tuesday morning,” he said. Ever since the lockdown came into effect, police seized more than 3,500 motorcycles which are kept at the police headquarters , Kasaba Bawada, Jain Boarding, Chitradurg math, and at the premises of the city traffic office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/475-two-wheelers-returned-500-more-to-be-handed-over-today/articleshow/75542053.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Special trains from Vijayawada keep supply chain intact||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada railway division has transported 1,169.8 tonnes of essential commodities through special parcel trains during the lockdown. According to an official press release, out of these essential supplies, 20.79 tonnes included essential medicines to various stations. “The country is in an unprecedented lockdown due the outbreak of Covid-19. However, to keep the supply chain in place, Vijayawada division is focusing in transportation of all essential commodities through timetabled special parcel trains,” the press release read. The essential commodities mainly included lime, iced fish, eggs, ghee tins, mangoes and perishables. Officials supplies are being transported to stations from Vijayawada to Rajahmundry, Eluru, Gudur, Nellore and Anakapalle stations in the division till date. Outside the state, around 598 tonnes of fish and dry fish were transported to Howrah, Guwahati and other stations from the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-trains-from-vij-keep-supply-chain-intact/articleshow/75542051.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: 3 Ds have created a people’s movement, PM Modi tells NAM meet||NEW DELHI: Calling for an inclusive and cooperative global response against Covid-19 at a virtual NAM summit, PM Narendra Modi said Monday that India, as a developing country and free society, had shown during the crisis how democracy, discipline and decisiveness can together create a genuine people’s movement. In his intervention, Modi said that despite India’s own needs, it had ensured medical supplies to over 123 partner countries, 59 of them NAM member states. While he said he wanted to focus only on the positives, he touched upon the issue of terrorism, calling it another deadly virus which ``some people’’ were trying to spread. He also spoke about fake news and doctored videos being used to divide communities and countries, in an allusion to recent developments in the Gulf. This was Modi’s first appearance in a NAM meeting at the summit level. In what has been seen as a decisive foreign policy shift, he had skipped the regular NAM summits in 2016 and 2019. ``India’s civilisation sees the whole world as one family. As we care for our own citizens, we are also extending help to other countries. To counter COVID-19, we have promoted coordination in our immediate neighbourhood. And, we are organising online training to share India’s medical expertise with many others. India is regarded as a pharmacy of the world, especially for affordable medicines,’’ said Modi. Modi said Covid-19 had exposed the limitations of the existing international system. ``In the post-COVID world, we need a new template of globalisation, based on fairness, equality, and humanity,’’ he said. The government said in a statement that Modi’s participation underlined India’s longstanding commitment to the principles and values of NAM as one of its leading founding-members. The leaders at the meeting also announced the creation of a task force to identify needs and requirements of member states through the establishment of a common database reflecting their basic medical, social and humanitarian needs in the fight against the virus. The PM also urged NAM to call upon the international community and the WHO to focus on building health-capacity in developing countries. ``We should ensure equitable , affordable and timely access to health products and technologies for all,’’ he said. Modi said India was actively participating in global efforts to develop remedies and vaccines. ``India has the world’s oldest plant-based traditional medicine system. We have freely shared simple Ayurvedic home-remedies, to help people boost their natural immunity,’’ he said. Modi was joined by over 30 other Heads of State and Government and other leaders, including from member states in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe at the meeting. According to the Indian statement, NAM Leaders assessed the impact of Covid-19, identified needs and requirements for possible remedies and urged action-oriented follow-up measures. Following the summit, leaders adopted a declaration underlining the importance of international solidarity in the fight against Covid-19. Watch NAM meet: Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches scathing attack on Pakistan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-ds-have-created-a-peoples-movement-pm-tells-nam-meet/articleshow/75544797.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||‘Best you can do is keep asthma under control’||Nagpur: There has been confusion among asthma patients about use of inhalers during Covid-19 situation. Pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, who is national secretary of Indian Chest Society (ICS), cleared all confusions and spoke about how asthmatic should take care during current times. Q: Do you think Asthma patients are at higher risk for Covid-19? A: Currently there is no evidence of increased Covid-19 infection rates among those with asthma. However, there is an estimation that states that patients with moderate-severe asthma could be at greater risk for more severe disease. But there are no published data to support this. Q: Is it advisable for asthmatics to continue using their inhaler during Covid-19 pandemic? A: Patients with asthma should never stop taking their corticosteroid inhaler unless asked to do so by their doctor. Stopping inhaler could put patient at higher risk of complications. In current pandemic, the best thing a person with asthma can do is to keep the asthma under control. Q: What will you suggest to those who fear using inhalers? A: Stopping inhaler will put person at risk of asthma exacerbation. In current situation, such patients can land in ICU or urgent care, where they have much higher risk of being exposed to someone with an Covid-19 infection. So, in a way, using inhalers and keeping asthma under control will save you from exposure to viral infections. Q: What should be done to ensure the inhaler does not get infected? A: Never share inhalers with others. Wash the devices regularly to keep them hygienic and clean. Q: Should asthmatics avoid going to medical centres or hospitals? A: If asthma is under control, avoid visiting hospital. You can contact your doctor telephonically. If absolutely necessary, take prior appointment and visit. Asthmatics should avoid making any unscheduled visits to the clinic. Q: What should people with asthma do if they have symptoms of fever and cough? A: Though asthma is associated with cough and breathlessness, fever is unusual. In such a situation, asthmatic must immediately consult the doctor. Mere cough and breathlessness is not Covid-19. So there is no need to fear. Q: Do you think current situation can become dangerous for Asthma patients? A: I think situation may not be as grim as we see. We should not panic. The fact is 85% of Covid-19 cases recover on their own. Only 15% require hospital admission, 5% require ICU care, and 3% - the elderly and those with co-morbidities— face the highest risk. But it may be noted that asthma deaths in India are highest in the world although we rank fourth in total asthma burden. Death in asthma mostly occurs during attack when it is kept uncontrolled due to habit of discontinuing inhalers once a person feels good. So, we must work towards good breathing by good asthma control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/best-you-can-do-is-keep-asthma-under-control/articleshow/75543220.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 5, 2020||Chennai||In big spurt, TN sees 527 +ve cases in a day, 266 in Chennai||Chennai: Tamil Nadu on Monday saw a big surge in infections with 527 people testing positive, 266 of them in Chennai, with the Koyambedu cluster now spreading all over the state. After Chennai, Cuddalore recorded the most cases, 122, followed by Villupuram with 49. Nineteen of the 37 districts in Tamil Nadu recorded new cases. Krishnagiri remains the sole district in green. A 65-year-old man died at Stanley Medical College Hospital taking the toll in the state to 31. Officials said another 56-year-old man from Ayanavaram died at Kilpauk Medical College later in the evening. His death was not mentioned in the state bulletin. With Monday’s steep increase in cases, the state’s infection tally went up to 3,550, the fourth highest in the country after Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. Senior officials maintained that the large increase was due to focused testing of “probable” cases from the Koyambedu cluster. “A large number of cases are linked to Koyambedu market in Chennai,’’ said the government bulletin. On Monday, officials decided to temporarily close the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex and shift wholesale vendors to a makeshift market at Tirumazhaisai. “We are now testing all the vendors, truckers, loadmen and other staff who worked inside the market complex. The test numbers have expanded and the rise was expected,” said Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash. In Chennai, a large number of cases were reported from Valasaravakkam, besides Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Pulianthope, Choolai and Royapuram. On Monday, the state screened 12,773 people. The aim, officials said, was now to do focused testing on high-risk groups and symptom-based tests for all others. Tamil Nadu has 50 testing labs, including 36 in the government sector, where tests are done free of cost. At the end of the day, 30 people were discharged taking the total number of people recovered to 1,409 across TN. As many as 2,107 people with the viral infection were still being treated at various hospitals. Chennai, which has so far discharged the maximum number of patients (267), had 1,438 active cases. While Cuddalore had 135 cases in hospitals, Villipuram had 104 cases. Erode, Nilgiris and Tirunelveli districts had discharged all patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-big-spurt-tn-sees-527-ve-cases-in-a-day-266-in-chennai/articleshow/75544014.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda couple away from kidsfor 104 days; no decision yet||NAGPUR: Despite craving to meet their seven and 10-year-old sons, this husband-wife duo from Chandrapur has not met them for 104 days. First it was Indonesia tour and then the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection which has kept them away from going home. The duo was asymptomatic since the beginning and reportedly had no health issues. Both, who were lodged in Vanamati institutional quarantine centre instead of sending them home following discharge after full recovery in the GMCH isolation ward, will complete their 14-day mandatory quarantine period and yet their fate seems uncertain as no decision has been taken by the authorities. “We have two sons — seven and 10 year-old, who are with their maternal grandmother and uncle. We have no option but to see and talk with them through video calls only. We have strictly adhered to the instructions by the administration. After discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on April 22, we were asked to stay at Vanamati and we followed it. At least now, we should be allowed to return home,” said the 39-year-old father. The duo along with three more couples had left Chandrapur to attend Indonesia jamaat on January 22. They stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi for two days and at another place for a few days for completing visa formalities. They left for Indonesia on February 4. All returned to New Delhi on March 22, stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz, which had emerged as Covid-19 epicentre of the country, and landed in the city on March 24. The couples were quarantined at MLA Hostel. As none of them had any Covid symptoms, their swab samples were not taken for testing on arrival. The NMC had also quarantined many others whose digital footprints were traced near Nizamuddin. When this Chandrapur man saw samples of others being taken, he volunteered to get tested on April 3, the 11th day at the MLA Hostel. His reports came Covid positive on April 6. Following this, his wife and three more couples were taken to GMCH and their samples were collected on April 8. His wife (32) also tested positive on April 11 and both were shifted to GMCH isolation ward. On April 22, after testing negative for two days they were discharged from GMCH. However, the couple’s dream of returning home was shattered as Chandrapur collector Kunal Khemnar asked them to spend 14 days at the institutional quarantine in Nagpur citing that his district has been Covid-free. Nagpur collector Ravindra Thakre arranged the couple’s stay at Vanamati. Khemnar did not respond to TOI’s repeated calls on Monday. Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel told TOI, “Collector Ravindra Thakre has started allowing Tablighi Jaamatis (TJs) from other states, stuck here due to lockdown, to return. I will meet Thakre on Tuesday and request for the Chandrapur couple’s discharge from institutional quarantine.” “We had a good foreign tour. We reached Jakarta Markaz and visited a few other places for religious purposes. Once in a year, we go on jamaat for 40 days. I had gone on jamaat to many states in the country. It was our first foreign jamaat,” the man said. The couple has spent total 41 days in isolation and institutional quarantine as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-couple-away-from-kidsfor-104-days-no-decision-yet/articleshow/75544020.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow residents split over demand for return of domestic aides||LUCKNOW: A raging debate is on among residents of several apartments in the state capital on whether to call domestic helps back to work since the lockdown has been extended for the third time or to wait for the coronavirus pandemic to get over. On Monday, the residents of an apartment on Jopling road even held voting on whether to call domestic helps for resuming their duties or not. The majority decision went in favour of those wanting helps to return. “We are working from home and are finding it extremely burdensome to completing our office projects while also doing household chores at the same time. The dual work load is affecting my performance and quality of output and that’s why I want my domestic aide to get back to work,” said Tarun Kukreja. Most residents of Bharni Apartments, Transportnagar also had conflicting views over calling domestic helps back. RWA secretary Devesh Kushwaha said, “Some residents in our apartments are asking the RWA to allow entry of domestic helps once again. However, the committee has decided against it as we do not want to take any wrong step in this fight against coronavirus.” In Jankipuram Extension, residents of Sargam Apartments want domestic helps to resume their duties but workers have refused, citing their own well-being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/residents-split-over-demand-for-return-of-domestic-aides/articleshow/75544026.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Trichy||39 positive in central districts, most Koyambedu returnees||Trichy: As many as 39 people, most of them Koyambedu returnees, tested positive for Covid-19 in the central districts including Trichy on Monday. In Perambalur, 25 people tested positive on Monday. Among them, 24 were daily wagers from Koyambedu and another, a contact of a Koyambedu returnee. Health department officials have quarantined 230 people in four institutional quarantine facilities across the district. The district administration still awaits the results for more than 270 samples. The total number of positive cases in Perambalur as on May 4 is 36. In Ariyalur district, six Koyambedu returnees from Ulliyakudi, Kolaiyanur and Sirukalathur tested positive. A total of 513 people including 155 suspected contacts of Covid-19 patients have been housed in institutional quarantine facilities in seven places. A new Covid-19 testing facility has been set up at Ariyalur GH, which can test samples of up to 300 people a day. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ariyalur went up to 34 on Monday. Trichy also recorded four new positive cases in Manapparai, Manikandam and Thottiyam taking the total count to 55. While three of them were Koyambedu returnees, one from Keezha Ammapettai had visited Chennai as a driver. Trichy collector S Sivarasu declared Keezha Ammapettai and F Keezhaiyur in Manapparai as a containment area banning the entry of anyone into the district. Sivarasu also visited the two villages and provided essentials to 90 families quarantined in Keezha Ammapettai and 47 families in Keezhaiyur. The district administration also took samples from 28 Koyambedu returnees and 363 of their contacts. The results of 359 people were negative. A 20-year-old man who tried to enter Karur district from Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A native of Krishnarayapuram, he was in Chennai for job and said to have visited Koyambedu market. He hitchhiked to reach Karur border on Sunday afternoon. However, he was caught by police from a truck in Manavasi toll plaza on the Karur-Trichy border. Thanjavur had one more positive case, a 28-year-old woman of Kumbakonam, wife of a a labourer at Koyambedu. In Tiruvarur, two more people including a three-year-old girl tested positive. The other positive case is a 19-year-old man of Nannimangalam, a labourer at Koyambedu market. The girl child was the daughter of a driver at Chennai port. No new cases were reported from Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/39-positive-in-central-districts-most-koyambedu-returnees/articleshow/75544017.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||200 from Srikakulam stranded in Krishna Lanka||VIJAYAWADA: Migrant labourers from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Monday requested the Krishna district administration to shift them to their hometowns immediately. Around 200 migrant workers from Uddanam in Srikakulam are stranded in Krishna Lanka, a declared red zone. “We are working in hotels and other small business units in the city. All of us are dependent on our daily wages. Since all business establishments in the city are closed, we lost our livelihood. All our savings were drained and we are not in a position to manage our daily expenses. Our families are eagerly waiting for us. We are very thankful to the government if they send us back to our homes,” said Bagvan Bisai, a migrant worker from Manikyapuram village of Srikakulam. He said they have no option but to stay outside the bus stand if the government failed to provide transport facilities for them. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz said that the district administration will take necessary measures to arrange free transport for migrant workers to go back. He asked the migrant workers to register their names by calling toll free number 1902. Tahsildars will verify the requests and process them as per the priority, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/200-from-skulam-stranded-in-krishna-lanka/articleshow/75542080.cms||Venu Lanka
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: ‘Green’ signal for Nagari municipality||TIRUPATI: Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said the percentage of positive cases in the district has shown a downward trend in the last three weeks. Speaking to reporters at the district collectorate on Monday, the collector said Nagari municipality, where no case has been reported in the last four weeks, will be designated a green zone. “Right now, Chittoor district is a red zone where Chittoor, Srikalahasti and Puttur towns are designated containment zones. Government has relaxed certain guidelines and steps have been taken to revive various activities accordingly,” the collector said. The collector said permissions were accorded for revival of construction and production activities, and several MSMEs in the district were directed to resume production after adhering to safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/green-signal-for-nagari-municipality/articleshow/75542079.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Dairy board steps in to help suppliers||GUNTUR: Sangam dairy, the leader in milk procurement and distribution in Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts, has decided to grant interim dividend to farmers, given their financial constraints. Dairy board chaired by former legislator and chairman Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar met here on Sunday and decided to grant dividend. “Milk producers of Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts will be paid an additional amount of Rs 3 per litre for buffalo milk along with the regular price of Rs 620 for a kilogram of fat and Rs 2 per litre for cow milk in addition to regular price of Rs 240 for a kilogram of solids along with the regular bill for a period of two months starting from May 11. This translates into a total benefit of Rs 3.5 crores to the milk producers,” said Narendra Kumar. He said the initiative would help farmers tide over the present crisis. Similarly, the board has decided to pay Chittoor district milk producers an additional amount of Rs 2 per litre for total supplies in April. An amount of Rs 73 lakh for Chittoor producers would be directly remitted into to the farmers’ bank accounts. Kumar said they have taken safety measures in all milk societies and dairies, from collection, to storage and distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dairy-board-steps-in-to-help-suppliers/articleshow/75542093.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police bar those over 65, kids below 10 from leaving home||Ahmedabad: With the third stage of the lockdown coming into effect from Monday, city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia has issued a fresh notification prohibiting people over the age of 65 and children below the age of 10 from coming out of their homes, except for medical reasons. The notification also prohibits people from coming on to roads before 7am and after 7pm even to buy essential items. Only those with exemptions like government vehicles will be allowed beyond these timings. A senior police officer said that people over 65 and children below the age of 10 are most vulnerable to Covid-19 and it is dangerous for them to leave their homes. The notification will be in effect for two weeks from May 4. The notification prohibits functioning of malls, multiplexes, cinema halls, drama halls, swimming pools, dance classes, game zones, club houses, amusement parks etc. The notification also prohibits running of educational institutes, tuition classes and coaching classes. Shops selling paan masala, cigarettes, bidis and tobacco products have also been prohibited from opening. The notification states that anyone coming from a declared Covid-19 country will have to inform the police control room, nearest government hospital and also inform on helpline number 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-bar-those-over-65-kids-below-10-from-leaving-home/articleshow/75543251.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Koyambedu pushes many dists back to red||The Koyambedu wholesale market, that attracts people from across Tamil Nadu looking to sell their produce or seeking jobs, has become a super spreader of Covid-19, pushing many districts back into the red zone from the orange zone as infections rise. From Cuddalore in northern Tamil Nadu to Dindigul in the south, people who visited the 65-acre Koyambedu market in Chennai that also receives trucks from all over the country, have started testing positive in droves. Almost all the 122 positive cases reported in Cuddalore on Monday can be traced back to Koyambedu. Test results of 450 more Koyambedu contacts are awaited. Forty-nine people from Villupuram who visited the market tested positive on Monday, while 33 had tested positive on Sunday. Now, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Dindigul and Tenkasi are all likely to be reclassified as red zones. These were among the 14 districts in TN that had moved from red to orange just a few days ago. The Koyambedu cluster has sent the official machinery in the districts into overdrive – border control has been stepped up to stop, test and isolate people coming from Chennai. Villupuram superintendent of police S Jayakumar said four centres have been set up to quarantine 459 people who visited Koyambedu market and 287 of their close contacts. District authorities of Tirupur and Salem have issued advisories and helpline numbers asking people linked to Koyambedu to come forward for testing voluntarily.Dindigul collector M Vijayalakshmi said of 100-odd people who returned from Koyambedu and were tested, ten tested positive on Monday, ``Tracing and screening of their contacts is being done,’’ she said. Collectors and health officials in western districts have also raised their guard. In Tiruppur, two loadmen who travelled in a truck carrying watermelons from Koyambedu two days ago have tested positive. In Coimbatore, 28 people with travel history to Koyambedu have been traced so far, while in Nilgiris 43 have been traced. Deputy director of health services Dr G Ramesh Kumar, said the 28 people traced in Coimbatore are from Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and Pollachi. “They will be tested for Covid-19 tomorrow,” he said. Ariyalur and Perambalur, the two districts in central Tamil Nadu had all these days maintained single-digit positive cases. No more. Over the past four days, the number of positive cases shot up from eight to 34 in Ariyalur and nine to 36 in Perambalur. And, all of them are linked to Koyambedu. Since there are few employment opportunities for villagers in these two districts, they do odd jobs at Koyambedu market to supplement income from their farmland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/koyambedu-pushes-many-dists-back-to-red/articleshow/75544032.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||22 birds injured in Mysuru rain rescued by activist||Mysuru: A city-based animal activist on Monday provided treatment to 22 birds who were injured after heavy winds and uprooting of trees during heavy rainfall the previous night. Ajay Kumar Jain rescued the injured birds from various places in the city and treated them at the Pragathi Bird Charitable Hospital in Vidyarayapuram. Jain started getting calls pertaining to injured birds since early Monday morning. He said the injured birds include four eagles, five pelicans, five pigeons, two crows and a brahminy kite. A pelican and a crow suffered fractures and the rest sustained minor injuries and shock. “All the four eagles suffered shock and are under observation. The injured birds need the attention of surgeon and will stay here for a week or even more,” he said. Since 2013, when he started the mission, Jain has rescued more than 1,700 birds. Two years ago, he rescued and saved 72 birds after receiving a call from the chief executive engineer at KRS. Heavy winds and uprooted of over 200 trees had resulted in the death of more than 400 birds then. Jain, who bears the expenses of rescuing and treatment of birds, said at least Rs 10,000 is needed for the treatment of one seriously injured bird. He is the president of Pragathi Pratisthan and is also into the business of gift items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/22-birds-injured-in-mysuru-rain-rescued-by-activist/articleshow/75542115.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mysuru||Govt launches portal to track midday meal scheme on pilot basis||MYSURU: The department of public instruction (DPI) has rolled out an official website to ensure the effective implementation of midday meal scheme across the state from next academic year 2020-21. The website will track the implementation of midday meals on a pilot basis in selected districts, said officials. Schools in Bengaluru district, Sandur in Ballari district, Yadgir taluk in Yadgir district have been asked to log into the website on a pilot basis to upload information related to the implementation of the scheme. The official portal will exclusively to keep track on the the scheme that plays a crucial role in increasing student enrolment, physical as well as mental growth and their overall development. The new move is expected to reduce the paperwork on details ranging from requirement and distribution of food grains, pulses, vegetables, cooking gas, staff and other facilities that had to be submitted by the heads of the schools every month to the government. In the new website, the respective heads of all heads must upload details including availability of stock, number of students among others on all working days, sources told TOI. In an order, the DPI had directed deputy directors of public instruction, district midday meals officers and block education officers to train all school heads to upload the details. Speaking to TOI, district midday meals officer Ningarajaiah said, “The department and Mysuru zilla panchayat have arranged online training for all the school heads, cluster and block resource persons. has also arranged training for them.” “Uploading information online and tracking the scheme not only helps for effective implementation of the programme, it also helps for the urgent release of funds from the government, while improving the quality and maintaining transparency,” he said. Currently, over 55 lakh children, including 2.25 lakh in Mysuru, studying from Class 1 to Class 10 benefit from the scheme in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-launches-portal-to-track-midday-meal-scheme-on-pilot-basis/articleshow/75541939.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Agra||1,229 people stranded in Gujarat arrive at Cantonment station||AGRA: As many as 1,229 people, mostly migrant workers who were stranded in Gujarat since the lockdown was announcement, arrived here on Monday onboard a special train. They boarded the train in Gujarat's Banaskantha district and arrived at Agra Cantonment railway station in the evening. Earlier on Sunday, 1,200 people were brought to Agra from Ahmedabad by a special train. Their deboarding was handled as per the protocol being observed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. On Monday, the passengers alighted from the train on the platform one by one while maintaining physical distance from one another. The deboarding was carried out under the watchful eye of district administration officials, policemen and railway staff who welcomed them by clapping and waving. From the platform, they would be taken to their home districts. Earlier, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh inspected the arrangements at the centre for screening the migrants and safely transferring them to their respective districts. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has arranged 60 buses to transfer the migrants to their home districts. According to UPSRTC officials, the migrants belong to at least 30 districts of UP. A route plan has been prepared to send them back. They will be quarantined in their home districts. Later, speaking with TOI, DM Singh said, “All the passengers were screened by a health department team. Details of all the passengers will be recorded. Initially, 50 roadways buses have been deployed to transfer the passengers to their respective districts. Only 25 to 30 passengers will be ferried in each bus. We have also made arrangements for providing food packets and mineral water bottles to all the passengers." Singh added, “Following orders of the state government, we will be providing a ration kit for 15 days to all the migrants who are residents of Agra zone districts. The dministrations of other districts have also made similar arrangements.” The DM said those who are stranded in Agra and need to go back to other districts of UP or any other state can contact on mobile numbers 9454419022 and 9719343550. Besides, those who want to come back to Agra from other parts of the country can contact on 8433453378 and 9454419024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1229-people-stranded-in-guj-arrive-at-cantt-stn/articleshow/75542134.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Valuation from home: Osmania Univeristy declares results of 26 courses online||HYDERABAD: Results of 26 undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses at Osmania Univeristy were declared in April and May, even as the lockdown has stalled examinations and evaluation of answer scripts across the country. About 2,000 evaluators worked from their homes for 40 days and corrected at least three lakh answer scripts to ensure that results of all examinations are released on time. Two-step verification – login credentials and one-times password – was put in place to ensure that only authorized candidates are accessing and correcting the answer scripts. “Each evaluator was given 30-40 answer scripts per day. To access these scripts, they need to enter OTP along with their IDs. To ensure that the evaluators do not handover their laptops/desktops to unauthorized persons after logging in, another OTP was sent randomly during the day,” said Sriram Venkatesh, controller of examination at Osmania University. “Of the 2,000 evaluators, about 1,500 evaluated answer scripts from their home for the first time,” said Venkatesh, adding that OU is the only university in the Telugu states, perhaps in the country too, which managed to release results without organizing spot valuation during the lockdown. He said the evaluation process commenced after the lockdown was announced. “While evaluation of PG answer scripts was completed in 30 days, UG revlauation took a little more time as few evaluators could not access a system,” said Venkatesh. In the onscreen evaluation, an evaluator has to mandatorily spend a minimum of three minutes on each answer script, even if it is a blank script, before moving to another. However, there is no limit on the maximum time an evaluator can take to correct a paper. In total, scripts of 20 PG courses—Political Science, Applied Electronics, Physics, among others, and six UG courses-- B Com LLB, BA LLB, BBA LLB, among others were evaluated during the lockdown. Apart from these courses, revaluation of all UG courses including engineering and pharmacy, MCA among others were also carried out during the lockdown. In 2018, OU had partially shifted to onscreen evaluation and had conducted a pilot run as well. Nearly 2,000 evaluators worked from home for 40 days and corrected at least three lakh answer scripts to ensure that the results of all examinations are released on time. Each evaluator was given 30-40 scripts per day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/valuation-from-home-ou-declares-results-of-26-courses-online/articleshow/75543265.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||12 new cases keep Krishna dist administration on its toes||VIJAYAWADa: Twelve new Covid-19 cases were reported in Krishna district on Monday, taking the number of positive cases to 278. Two new Covid-19 cases reported from Machilipatnam has worried the locals. The district administration has directed the health department and police to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients and shift them to quarantine centers. Machilipatnam revenue divisional officer Kaja Valli has directed the officials to be cautious about the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. “There is an increase in Covid-19 cases in Vijayawada. We have decided to restrict movement of vehicles between Vijayawada and Machilipatnam. Despite check posts at Machilipatnam outskirts many are using alternative routes to enter the city. Special forces will be deployed at all routes and vehicle will be seized,” he said. The city police have intensified security and restricted people’s movement on the streets during the lockdown hours. Huge queue lines were noticed at various liquor shops in green zones in Vijayawada city and the police took measures to control the crowd. Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has intensified sanitation measures at Krishna Lanka and Machavaram as new cases continued in the city. 0 Officials continued door delivery of essential commodities in red zones across the city. M-Marts established by municipal authorities received a positive response. The health wing conducted swab tests to officials working at the VMC main office as per the directions of district collector A Md Imtiaz. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said that 150 VMC employees were tested on Monday and the remaining staff would be tested on Tuesday. The district collector said that outpatient services at private hospitals in the district were resumed as per the directions of the union government. He said 43 mandals in Krishna district were green zones with not a single Covid-19 case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-new-cases-keep-krishna-dist-administration-on-its-toes/articleshow/75542150.cms||Venu Lanka
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Only stranded workers from Andhra Pradesh can return, reiterates CM||AMARAVATI: The state government has reiterated that it will allow only migrant workers stranded in other states to come back, for which it is making arrangements, and it is not possible to consider individual requests at this juncture. The government advised people staying in other states either for studies or work to stay in their place till the lockdown is further relaxed by the Centre. The issue of hundreds of individuals, including students and techies, thronging the inter-state borders came up for discussions at the high-level meeting chaired by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy at the camp office on Monday. While expressing his anguish, the chief minister appealed them to cooperate with the government in the interest of the health of their family members, villages and entire state. He directed the officials not to consider individual requests for transport or give permission to enter the state at this juncture. He asked them to make arrangements to bring back migrant workers from the states where they are stuck. He said the state government is tirelessly working to contain the spread of the Covid-19 and taking all possible measures while transporting migrants stranded in other states. Besides, the state government is readying quarantine facilities on a large scale in all villages to keep the new returnees he said, adding that the government is spending a large amount of money to screen and quarantine the migrant and foreign returnees. The officials explained that screening of Covid-19 suspects has touched 2,345 tests per million that is highest in the country. They said that Delhi government has conducted 2,224 tests per million and Tamil Nadu carried out 1,929 tests per million. Similarly Rajasthan carried out 1,402 tests per million. The officials said that 10,292 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours taking the total number of tests to 1,25,229. Speaking about paddy procurement, the chief minister directed civil supplies corporation officials to step up paddy procurement in view of the cyclone alert issued by the IMD. He said aggressive purchases could only save the farmers in case the cyclone hits the coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/only-stranded-workers-from-ap-can-return-reiterates-cm/articleshow/75542160.cms||Samdani MN
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Confusion over multiple orders forces traders’ body to appeal for shop closure||PUNE: On Monday, citizens woke up to another day of confusion over multiple orders issued by enforcement authorities. Citizens said that they were being taken for a ride due to the lack of coordination among the various authorities and demanded that all of them must come together and issue a single order categorically specifying its relevance to Pune city limits. Sushma Dey, a B T Kawade Road resident, said, "By the time the government order has made rounds of social media groups and has been interpreted, another order from the local authorities is circulated. And with no time, the police also issue another order. What is wrong with the local authorities? They should conduct a meeting among themselves and frame the rules. Why does the civic body, district collector and police need to have different rules." Most traders, except those operating grocery shops, were confused about reopening their establishments as Pune Municipal Corporation had one set of rules, while police another. As confusion prevailed in most parts of the city on Monday, shopkeepers selling non-essentials sought clarifications as to which shops could remain open and their timings, forcing the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) to appeal to all shopowners and traders to keep their shops closed until further clarity was received from the authorities. "So many orders have come out and everything is so confusing. The authorities are asking us to open shops, but all the roads are closed. There are restrictions on travel. The first orders said shops will be open, then the orders said shops will be closed and then another set of orders said 5 shops can remain open. We are going to meet the collector on Tuesday to urge him to deliberate with other authorities and issue a single notification. Until then, we have urged all our members to keep their shops shut," FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka said. While the government orders permitted opening of five non-essential category shops in each lane of non-containment areas, there weren’t any further guidelines, which kept shopkeepers guessing as to whether they could open the shops or not. Shopkeepers and citizens have demanded further clarity on the matter so that businesses could resume operation. "The current orders are extremely ambiguous as they say five non-essential shops can open. Most lanes in Pune have more than five shops. Which five shops can open? Can a clothing store open or an electronic store? There was a need for clear guidelines and a plan of action to ease the restrictions rather than a random notification," Prasanna Parmar, a resident of Shankarsheth Road, said. All shops on Fergusson College Road remained shut on Monday as members of the FC Road Traders' Association were in a state of confusion whether they could open their shops or not. However, several shops dealing in electronics, devices and clothes opened in Karvenagar, Ganeshnagar and Navsahyadari area. "We will keep the shop open till 6pm in line with the guidelines," an electronics store’s owner from the Karve Road said. While areas including Deccan, Law College Road, Karve Road, Kothrud, Baner and Aundh saw shops operating till 6pm, shops in other areas downed shutters before 2pm,. Locals stated that most shops on Salunkhe Vihar Road and NIBM Road were told to close down before noon and 1pm by police squads, even though the areas were not containment zones. Kalyan Bishnoi, a stationery shopowner in Kalyani Nagar, said, "The state government comes out with some rules, the PMC bifurcates them, and the police set some other rules. The chaos on Monday was only due to these multi-level rules. We have decided to bear loses and wait till normalcy is restored." Vernon Fernandes (67), a yoga expert from NIBM Road, said, "No expert thinking has gone into framing the lockdown regulations. I was told by a petrol outlet that I needed a police pass to fill petrol. How do I use my car when all the roads are barricaded?!" Rachana Agarwal, part of the Swachh Kalyani Nagar group, said that there was utter confusion among residents due to multiple orders issued by the authorities. She said, "We stay in ward 5 of Kalyaninagar. Wadgaonsheri is in our neighbourhood and has been declared a red zone. On Monday morning, there was utter confusion on the streets as people were not sure what rules were applicable for them." Vivek Velankar, a civic activist, said the police, civic authorities and district administration need to isuue a joint statement for better clarity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confusion-over-multiple-orders-forces-traders-body-to-appeal-for-shop-closure/articleshow/75544481.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 5, 2020||Agra||Two Mauritians test +ve, third death in Mathura||AGRA: As Mathura reported the death of a third coronavirus patient, two Mauritians – including a 27-year-old pregnant woman – were among three people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mathura on Monday, taking the district tally to 31. Mathura chief medical officer Sher Singh said, “The deceased was a 65-year-old male and was suffering from diabetes and blood pressure. He was admitted to KD Medical College in Mathura.” Singh told TOI that of the three fresh cases, two women aged 27 and 44 from Mauritius, who were staying at Anand Vatika in Vrindavan since March 8, had approached the health department for a medical checkup as they wanted to return home. On Monday, their test reports arrived and they tested positive for Covid-19. Hence, they were immediately shifted to an isolation centre. He added that two of their relatives have also been quarantined and their apartment has been sealed. “The duo are related and they also have a travel history to Agra. They are on a tourist visa valid for a year,” said police. The other person who tested positive for the disease is an 18-year-old youth, who had been on dialysis since August 2019 and was visiting the district hospital twice a week for the procedure,” said Singh, adding that he has been referred to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow for treatment. He further said that six health workers of the dialysis unit have been quarantined after their samples were taken to test for Covid-19. “The dialysis unit of the district hospital has also been shut and will be opened after proper sanitisation,” he said, adding that all five units are non-functional now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-mauritians-among-3-test-positive-for-coronavirus-mathura-reports-3rd-death/articleshow/75542155.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Roti Bank banks on the generous to feed hungry||Nagpur: Roti Bank Foundation, a non-profit food rescue organization set up to bridge the gap between hunger and excess food, is doing outstanding work by feeding the hungry during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 crisis. Roti Bank has distributed over 8.28 lakh meals in Mumbai alone. In Nagpur, 82,000 meals were distributed in over a month. Roti Bank started distribution of meals in Nagpur region from March 26 when the lockdown started biting many. “Most the hungry who were supplied meals were migrants returning to their hometowns walking all along the highways. On May 1, a record 6,500 meals prepared in six kitchens in the city were distributed,” said Purushottam Chaudhary, a retired deputy SP and in-charge of Roti Bank, Nagpur. Chaudhary said since the lockdown started, Roti Bank has been distributing meals on highways at Borkhedi, Jamtha, Pardi and Kapsi on Bhandara road, Gangapur, Vaishali Nagar, Takalghat, outer ring road, Chinchbhavan, Ballarshah and Chandrapur. While several entities closed shop, Roti Foundation shifted gears and started on a high pace mission during these difficult times. Though the large-scale lockdown brought a nation of 1.3 billion people to a halt, it also created many issues for the daily wagers. Nagpur Roti Bank under Chaudhary has being going steadily to serving about 5,000 meals every day. “We have also distributed 2,000 pairs of old but good footwear, snacks and glucose water to migrants moving in soaring temperatures,” said Chaudhary. This campaign was headed by Prasanna Chaudhary, who distributed good footwear to the needy. The Rashtriya Sevika Samiti (RSS) played a vital role in this campaign. “In Nagpur, the partnership with temple trusts such as Devi Ahilya Mandir, Sai Mandir and Gajanan Mandir helped us cook food and distribute it at several destinations. We even opened kitchens along highways such as Kapsi, Ballarshah, Marodi, Mathani and Jawahar Nagar,’ says Chaudhari. Nagpur Roti Bank also tried to provide relief to walking migrant workers by providing transportation and helped them reach to the farthest point of their journey as much as possible, especially pregnant women. The Roti Bank Foundation was set by former super cop D Shivanandan, who served as commissioner of police at Nagpur and retired as director general of police (DGP), Maharashtra. “At Mumbai, the Roti Bank has partnered with several restaurants providing them with raw materials to cook several thousand meals daily. Our own newly inaugurated kitchen in Chembur plays a huge part in cooking over 10,000 meals daily,” says Shivanandan. Roti Bank was inaugurated in Nagpur by Shivanandan on January 7, 2020. The bank regularly supplies evening meals to over 500 relatives of poor patients at Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH) daily. “The daily intake of food in GMCH is around 1,200-1,300 thalis. Though patients are supplied Deendayal Thali, their relatives also need food which we cater too,” said Chaudhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/roti-bank-banks-on-the-generous-to-feed-hungry/articleshow/75543262.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Booze lovers cheer to relaxed norms, liquor sale on a high||LUCKNOW: Bacchus lovers came out in droves throwing social distancing to winds and lapped up a record 2.78 lakh litre booze worth Rs 6.3 crore, the third highest ever after March 5, 2015, as liquor shops reopened on Monday ending a dry spell of one-and-a-half-month in the city. Monday’s record sale came in just seven hours against normal days when shops are allowed to operate for 12 hours from 10am to 10pm. TimesViewPolice should step up the vigil to check drinking in public places and ensure that safety protocols such as social distancing and wearing masks are being followed by customers at liquor shops. People also need to maintain decency as norms have been eased for their benefit.“As of now, we have been allowed to operate shops for nine hours from 10am to 7pm, but on Monday we had to wrap up by 5pm because of the hailstorm, otherwise sales would have broken all-time high record set a day before Holi on March 5, 2015, when 3.2 lakh litre of liquor worth Rs 6.8 crore was sold,” said Kanhaiya Maurya, secretary Lucknow Liquor Traders' Association. “Today’s sale included 1.98 lakh litre of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 4.7 crore and 0.80 lakh litre of country made liquor worth Rs 1.6 crore,” he added. In many localities people stood in serpentine queues up to half-a-km long outside shops hours before counters were opened, giving police a tough time ensuring social distancing and preventing road blocks due to overcrowding. With many stockpiling one to two months' quota, nearly 50% of the total 504 shops in the state capital were out of stock by 4 in the afternoon. While the stores opened at 10am, people in many areas, including Aashiana, Aliganj, Jankipuram, Alamabgh, Hussainganj, Hazratganj, Mahanagar, Aminabad, Chowk, and Gomtinagar, started making queues outside the shops since 8am. Martand Singh, a resident of LDA colony said, “I reached the store at 9.45am and got 23rd spot in the queue.” Despite hot and sultry weather, the line kept on increasing as more people joined it. “First time in 10 years, I have seen such a high demand. In an hour after opening, we sold one third of our stock, equal to what we used to sell in the entire day before lockdown,” said Ajeet Kumar, liquor store employee in Aashiana. Most customers bought a bagful and early birds grabbed popular brands, while remaining had to content with the leftover. PK Verma, a Mahanagar resident, said, “My brand was sold out by the time my number came, but still I bought a dozen bottles of rum because who knows government bans it again.” However, Ajit Singh of Jopling Road had to go back disappointed, “I stood in the queue for over two hours but the stock was over by the time my number came.” Store owners had drawn circles on the road to maintain social distance, but it was violated at several places by customers many of whom were also not wearing masks. In Indiranagar, cops sent back several customers without masks, while on Meerabai Marg police had to use force to make people blocking road to stand in straight line. While many customers said social drinking has been part of their lifestyle since long, some gave hilarious reasons for their desperation. Sarthak Pandey, a resident of Gomtinagar, tried to reason: “The administration should have included it in essential items as stress levels are high these days and liquor helps in relaxation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/booze-lovers-cheer-to-relaxed-norms-liquor-sale-on-a-high/articleshow/75544063.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Morning fitness enthusiasts make a comeback on Kolkata streets with precautions||Bishwabijoy.Mitra@timesgroup.com Divij Shah, a national-level paracyclist, took to the empty streets at Maidan on Monday morning, breathing clean air through a mask and resuming his daily workout regimen. He’s not the only one. Several joggers and morning walkers are starting to step out of their homes after being confined for almost 40 days. These fitness enthusiasts believe that staying home at a time when the air quality of Kolkata is at its best in a decade, is a shame. Most of them are willing to follow social distancing and other safety norms as long as they can be out and about. “My exercise routine has been suffering due to the lockdown. But now, when I go out in the mornings, I wear a mask. I also maintain social distancing to make sure I am safe from the virus,” said Divij. After walking on his terrace for more than a month, Nirmal Kumar Ray, a businessman, went back to Maidan on Monday morning. “It is not the same as walking on my roof. I missed this place so much,” he said. Minakhshi Baradwaj, who has been a regular jogger at Victoria Memorial for the last 12 years, is walking around Maidan now since the gardens of Victoria are inaccessible. “I don’t have any patience left for the lockdown to get over. Earlier, we used to come here in a group. My friends will start their morning fitness routine soon,” she said. Mitali Saha, who was spotted walking on Southern Avenue, just beside Rabindra Sarobar lake, is strictly maintaining social distancing and using a mask and sanitiser while going out. “There are no cars around. Kolkata air has never seemed this clean. It’d be a shame to not make use of this,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/morning-fitness-enthusiasts-make-a-comeback-on-kolkata-streets-with-precautions/articleshow/75539552.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Three new cases, K Chandrasekhar Rao calls for stricter lockdown||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday called for stricter lockdown after reviewing the Covid-19 status late on Monday, even as the state reported three more positive cases. The chief minister urged the health department to step up vigil as 66 per cent of the total 1,085 Covid-19 cases were reported from Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Medchal, Malkajgiri, and Vikarabad, making up for the 717 coronavirus cases. “There should not be any relaxation on part of the authorities and they should strictly implement lockdown in these districts. About 82 per cent of Covid-19 deaths have been reported from these districts,” the CM said. Earlier, director of health and family welfare, Srinivasa Rao said the ongoing lockdown helped them bring down Covid-19 cases in the state as 40 more people were discharged from hospitals. “There is a dip in the cases, which denotes that the lockdown was very effective in bringing down the numbers,” said Srinivasa Rao. Altogether 471 patients are still under treatment at Covid-19 hospitals. So far, 585 persons have recovered and 29 patients with co-morbid conditions have lost their lives. “The Covid-19 cases peaked in the state in two phases,” said Rao, explaining that the first spike took place around the April 6 mark, when 303 cases were reported, while the second spike was on around the April 20 mark, when 366 cases were reported. On Monday, two cases were reported from Vanasthalipuram and 168 families were asked to be on home quarantine after contact tracing. Both the patients had small businesses In Vanasthalipuram area. Officials said one patient went to Suryapet on a business trip recently. Officials said while the recovery rate in the country has reached 22.5 per cent, in the state there are more number of recovered patients as each of them is under care. The government said they are spending Rs 3.5 lakh on each patient. On average, each patient is given 80 personal protection equipment (PPE). With each kit costing Rs 2,500, the government is spending around Rs 2 lakh on PPEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-new-cases-kcr-calls-for-stricter-lockdown/articleshow/75543273.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizianagaram: Last 5,116 fishermen to return home soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has prepared a list of 5,116 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh who are stranded in five states – Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Goa and Tamil Nadu — and at various districts of Andhra Pradesh. According to fisheries department officials, they will be brought back shortly by special trains or buses. “With the help of nodal officers of the states the fisheries department has prepared a list on Monday. Now, coordination is on to find out a suitable mode to bring back the stranded fishermen,” said Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist in the state. According to government data, 2,883 fishermen are stranded in Tamil Nadu, 772 fishermen in Karnataka, 250 in Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa have 185 and 50 fishermen, respectively. And another 976 migrant fishermen are stranded in different districts within the state. “If our information is right then these 5,116 fishermen are the last set of stranded fishermen from the Andhra Pradesh who got stuck due to the lockdown. Efforts from the government are on to bring them back home. Once they return, they would quarantined at their home districts,” said an official from the fisheries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/last-5116-fishermen-to-return-home-soon/articleshow/75542191.cms||Arpit Basu
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown tightened in Narasaraopet||GUNTUR: The Guntur district administration has decided to impose three days of complete lockdown in Narasaraopet town following a steep rise in Covid-19 cases. As many as 13 positive cases were reported in the town on Monday, taking the tally to 142. As part of efforts to break the chain of transmission, the special officer for Covid-19 containment operations and Tenali sub-collector Kothamasu Dinesh Kumar has announced a 72-hour lockdown. The district administration had imposed a five-day-long complete lockdown in the town till Sunday. Officials granted some respite on Monday and Tuesday for locals to procure groceries. As per the original plan, the lockdown was relaxed for three hours between 6 am to 9 pm on both days. The decision to tighten restrictions again was taken after people crowded marketplaces on Monday. “It looks like that people are not learning any lessons despite the fact that coronavirus is spreading fast in the town and may cause harm to everyone,” said Dinesh Kumar. Expressing displeasure at the rush in markets and absence of social distancing, Dinesh Kumar said efforts of the administration would go to waste if people failed to follow rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-tightened-in-narasaraopet/articleshow/75542190.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune civic authorities to review containment zone in four days||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will review the containment zone in the city in four days, during which the number of new Covid-19 cases will be taken into account to increase its area or not. “We urge the citizens to use the relaxations judiciously. If there is a major increase in the number of positive cases, we will have to rethink on the containment zone,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said at a news conference on Monday. He said, “The civic administration can impose the restrictions once again. The situation can be assessed again in four to five days.” Gaikwad said citizens could allow domestic helps to resume work, provided all precautionary measures were taken. PMC has reduced the containment zone sfrom 81sqkm to 10sqkm. The decision was taken to make day-to-day life easy for residents. “All essential as well as a few non-essential shops will be opened according to the guidelines issued by the Union and state governments. The standalone shops in housing societies will be allowed to operate. The decision about which five non-essential shops are to be kept open in a particular area can be taken by the local police. The citizens can avail the services of e-commerce,” he said. Gaikwad said people could also get petrol and diesel. “The transport of goods has been allowed. So, putting restrictions on sale of fuel seems unreasonable,” he said, adding that PMC was planning to make changes in the quarantine facilities. “Municipal properties like civic schools, which are currently occupied by the migrant workers, can be used as isolation centres once these migrants return to their native places,” the civic chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-authorities-to-review-containment-zone-in-four-days/articleshow/75544482.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Agra||28 vegetable sellers test corona positive in Agra||AGRA: Now, vegetable sellers are facing the wrath of Covid-19 in the city. In the last 10 days, at least 28 vegetable sellers have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Majority of the vegetable sellers who have tested positive are clueless about the source of their infection. The contact surveillance team is trying to ascertain the chain of contacts, while the health department is engaged in large-scale screening in the affected area where these vegetable sellers reside and do their business. Senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar said, “Most of the infected vegetable sellers are from Basai and Tajganj-based mandi. People who came in contact with these vegetable sellers have been quarantined. Doorstep delivery of packed vegetables has been started.” Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (city) Rohan Botre said, “We had conducted a pool test of 160 street vendors including vegetable sellers, grocery store owners and others. The test concluded that over 24 vegetable sellers were infected with Covid-19.” To contain the spread of infection, the district administration started doorstep delivery of vegetable packets in 10 wards of the city on Monday. On Tuesday, packed vegetables will be supplied to 10 more wards. Besides, the administration has also decided to conduct pool testing of all the vegetable sellers. Agra Mandi secretary Shiv Kumar Raghav said, “The plan for doorstep delivery of vegetables was successfully implemented on Monday. On Tuesday, we will be covering at least 20 wards. Soon, all the 100 wards of the city will be covered.” “Officials have been assigned the duty in all the vegetable and fruit markets of the district to ensure strict enforcement of social distancing protocol. Covid-19 testing of vegetable sellers is also being done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/28-vegetable-sellers-test-corona-positive-in-agra/articleshow/75542196.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||HC raps Centre, NMC over meagre wages to Asha workers||NAGPUR: Censuring the central government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court observed that Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha workers), who are at the forefront of the war against Covid- 2019, are being treated in a most “unfortunate manner”. TOI had also highlighted their plight on April 20 and the report was cited by intervener’s counsel Ravi Sanyal during his pleadings. “These workers who’re performing special duties, including door-to-door survey of houses during such crisis, are being treated in a most unfortunate manner by the corporation. Even if Rs2,500/month is being paid to them, it’s hardly sufficient for their survival. It’s distressing that they’re meted out with such treatment by the public authorities,” justice Manish Pitale tersely stated. While directing the Centre to increase their remuneration, the judge warned that it will pass the order to pay Rs1,000/month and Rs200/day to these aggrieved workers from April 25 in case of failure. “The Union of India is directed to immediately take a decision on the NMC’s proposal to hike their remuneration. The Ccentre, state and NMC are expected to take necessary steps before the next hearing to ensure that the proposed payment is made so that such warriors aren’t left high and dry,” he stated. The stringent directives came while hearing an application filed by NMC Workers’ Union member Jammu Anand through counsel Sanyal highlighting Asha workers’ plight on how they’re forced to survive on the extremely meagre wages. They’re also made to conduct door-to-door survey in lockdown without personal protection equipment (PPEs) and food. The NMC, in its reply through counsel Sudhir Puranik, informed that they’re suffering from financial crisis and it was difficult to make extra payment to Asha workers. He said that they had already dispatched the proposal to hike their remuneration to the Centre under Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar told HC that he would take specific instructions on the NMC’s proposal. Puranik informed that sanitizers, gloves, masks and shoes are being provided for personal protection of Asha workers along with life/term insurance of Rs1,000/month. “They get Rs50 lakh in case of death while discharging Covid-19 special duties. But there is no legal provision entitling them to food or tea,” he said. While terming NMC’s approach as “insensitive”, Sanyal contended that these workers deserve better wages and protection along with refreshments as they work throughout the day in containment areas. What HC said Asha workers are at forefront of war against Covid- 2019 performing special duties They’re being treated in a most unfortunate manner by NMC Even if Rs2,500/ month is being paid, it’s hardly sufficient for their survival It’s distressing that they’re meted out with such treatment by public authorities Centre, state & NMC are expected to take necessary steps in this regard||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-raps-centre-nmc-over-meagre-wages-to-asha-workers/articleshow/75543283.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Restart public transport, not liquor stores: Vizianagaram daily wagers||VIZIANAGARAM: People of Vizianagaram are perplexed with the district administration’s decision to open liquor stores and not lift the lockdown or allow public transport in the district. Vizianagaram district is the only green zone in the state and has not reported any Covid-19 cases. Most residents of the district are daily wage-earners. Without work, many have exhausted all their savings. They have been unable to move from one place to another in search of work due to curbs on public transport. Consequently, the decision to open liquor stores instead of lifting curbs on public transport has raised questions. B Anji Naidu, a daily wage worker in Arikithota in Vizianagaram said, “What is the point of opening liquor stores and allowing us to buy alcohol? We need money to buy alcohol in the first place.” Daily wage workers are worried that they will soon run out of their savings. A section of people feel that opening up of liquor stores could be counterproductive since the district shares borders with Odisha and Visakhapatnam, where cases have been reported. Upon being asked about its response to the concerns, the district administration simply said that the government is yet to relax public transport curbs. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said, “Free movement of people is allowed. Cabs and auto-rickshaws are allowed to move within the district. Movement of people should not be hindered.” He clarified that people are allowed to move around only until 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/restart-public-transport-not-liquor-stores-vzm-daily-wagers/articleshow/75542226.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 5, 2020||Pune||Motorists rush to petrol pumps on fuel hopes in Pune||PUNE: People began flocking petrol pump outlets to refuel their vehicles soon after partial lifting of curbs in Pune district on Monday, catching petrol dealers unawares as they had not received any official orders on resumption of dispensing fuel to all citizens. Petrol retailers in the city said fuel was still being supplied only to essential service providers, as per the previous orders of the district administration. No new orders in this regard (resumption of fuel supply to citizens) were released by the district administration on Monday. Source from Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, said, “We await the district administration’s communication on a revised order on the sale of fuel to all citizens. Till such an order is received, we will continue to supply fuel to only essential service providers.” The source said, “It should be noted that citizens should not crowd at petrol pumps. People had crowded at petrol pumps in many places on Monday. If this continues, we would have to notify the police.” An official from the district administration, however, said an official order pertaining to the supply of fuel to citizens was likely to be released on Tuesday. On Monday, many people who had hit the petrol pumps located in the Kondhwa area were asked to leave, with the petrol dealers stating that they had not got any order to sell fuel to everyone from the authorities. “We came to know from different mediums that fuel will be allowed for all from Monday. I came down to the pump but then the representatives didn’t allow me to enter. They said no order or directions in this regard had come from anyone,” Siraj Khan, who had gone to a petrol station at the Bibvewadi-Kondhwa Road, told TOI. It was a case of confusion in the morning hours for many people, especially the transporters. “I was under the impression that diesel was being sold to all now and hence asked my drivers to go to the nearest pumps with their tempos and get the tanks filled up. However, fuel was denied to them,” a local transporter said. Adarsh Jadhav, a resident of NIBM Road, said he borrowed some petrol from a friend to fill the tank of his two-wheeler so that it can reach the petrol pump. “I think that authorities of different agencies are completely confused. I literally took out fuel from my friend’s vehicle so that I could reach the pump. They told me that I am not going to get petrol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-hope-fuels-motorists-run-to-the-pump/articleshow/75544483.cms||Neha Madaan
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Two injured in brawl over parking in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Two groups clashed in a bylane at Moinbagh, Bhavani Nagar, on Saturday night, resulting in two people suffering bleeding injuries. A video of the incident surfaced on social media on Monday. According to the police, the fight broke out over a parking dispute between two neighbours. A resident of the area had objected to a few persons, living in the house opposite his, parking their vehicle in front of the residence and sitting on the pavement. Following the argument, supporters of both attacked each other with sticks. Large number of onlookers gathered in the lane. Atleast six persons were seen attacking each other in a video. The police reached the spot later. They were shifted to a hospital and a few others were taken into custody. Bhavani Nagar Police registered criminal case against 13 people. The zonal police officials were not available for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-injured-in-brawl-over-parking/articleshow/75543285.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||106 new cases take MP’s corona count to 2942; Satna gets first positive patient||Bhopal: With 106 new patients testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday tally of positive patients in state reached 2,942. Though 106 new cases were reported on Monday, the total tally of patients in the state increased by 105 as one patient who had earlier tested positive in Niwari district was removed from the list as his second and third test reports came out to negative, said health officials. Eight Covid deaths were also reported in Madhya Pradesh on Monday — five in Ujjain, two in Burhanpur, one each in Raisen and Indore. With this, the corona death toll of state reached 165. As per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services on May 4, the districts where new patients were found are Indore (43), Bhopal (31), Burhanpur (16), Ujjain (10), Jabalpur (2), Raisen (2), Morena (1) and Satna (1). With first patient testing positive in Satna district on Monday, it became 34th district to become infected with the deadly virus. Number of positive patients in Burhanpur district of Malwa-Nimar region which only had one positive case till May 1, has jumped to 34 cases in past three days and two deaths were also reported in the district on Monday. Apart from the new positive patients, 58 patients recovered from Covid in state, taking the total number of recovered patients to 856 in the state which is roughly close to 30% of the total positive cases found so far in the state. Around 61of the total patients who are admitted in hospitals across several districts are in critical condition while remaining 1860 are in stable condition, said sources. Administration has declared 836 localities across these 34 districts as containment zones and movement of any kind has been prohibited in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/106-new-cases-take-mps-corona-count-to-2942-satna-gets-first-positive-patient/articleshow/75542227.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Mangrol city Cong president found murdered at his home||Kota: Congress’ Mangrol city president Vinod Chopda (62) was found murdered at his residence in Baran district’s Mangrol town on Monday. Police said unidentified assailants possibly barged into his house on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday and committed the crime. The motive was yet to be ascertained as valuables were not found missing though a motorbike parked on the premises wasn’t there.The deceased lived alone in the house as his wife is not mentally sound and did not live with him while his son is lodged in jail in connection with a case, Mangrol SHO Umesh Maheria said. When the deceased’s brother Sunil went to his house with tea and breakfast, he found his brother lying murdered in the room with fatal injuries on his head caused by a sharp weapon, he added. Police have lodged a case of murder under relevant sections of the IPC against unidentified accused, the SHO said.The body was handed over to family members after postmortem by a medical board, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mangrol-city-cong-president-found-murdered-at-his-home/articleshow/75544084.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Agra||Dry spell ends in rural parts of Agra district||AGRA: Liquor shops will start operating in rural areas of Agra district which are out of Covid-19 containment zone. The shops will remain closed in rural areas which have reported even a single active Covid-19 positive case. Confirming this, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Liqour shops will be allowed to operate in rural areas where no Covid-19 positive case has surfaced. The shops will be allowed to operate from 10am to 7pm. Police will be on duty to ensure that social distancing protocol is strictly followed. Action will be taken against shopkeepers allowing more than five customers at the sale counter.” According to the excise department officials, no liquor shop will be allowed to open in Fatehpur Sikri and Etmadpur block. Shops in villages having even one active Covid-19 positive case will not be allowed to operate. There are 795 licensed discharged liquor shops in Agra district. Out of these, 307 are country-made liqour shops, 224 are English wine shops and 264 are beer shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dry-spell-ends-in-rural-parts-of-agra-district/articleshow/75542202.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||TSHRC notice to officials on 2 orphans||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) took suo moto cognizance of the pitiable condition of two girls, aged 18 and 12, who lost their father a few days ago and are living in a tent on the outskirts of Katnapalli village. In a notice issued to Karimnagar district collector, district welfare officer, women development and child welfare department, TSHRC asked them to enquire into the matter and provide rehabilitative measures to the girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tshrc-notice-to-officials-on-2-orphans/articleshow/75543281.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||SGPGI OPD shut after patient tests Covid positive||LUCKNOW: A 53-year-old woman from Alambagh, a breast cancer patient, had her first chemotherapy session lined up at SGPGIMS on Monday morning but had to return without treatment as the OPD was closed. Like her, over 200 patients of nephrology, hematology, chemotherapy and pain clinic who visited the OPD had to return without treatment. Emergency and Covid-19 services, however, remained unaffected. The institute decided to shut its OPD on Monday after an elderly patient from Khadra, who had visited nephrology OPD on Saturday, was tested Covid-19 positive. The elder brother of cancer patient from Alambagh said, “We had been given appointment for Monday and asked to come with two test reports. When we reached the OPD, the guard informed us about the closure.” Chief medical superintendent (CMS) Prof Amit Agarwal said, “Chemotherapy cannot be done in the OPD now. An alternative has been established in palliative wing of A block for such patients. They can reschedule their appointment with the doctor.” While SGPGI has started consultation with doctors through telemedicine service and launched numbers for it on Sunday, public relations officer (PRO) Kusum Yadav said nephrology OPD had been fully sanitized and medical team which came in contact with the patient had been put under quarantine. “PGI director Dr RK Dhiman has informed that only eight persons were present in the nephrology OPD on Saturday when the patient visited for consultation. He was admitted to our Covid-19 hospital,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sgpgi-opd-shut-after-patient-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/75544085.cms||Yusra Husain
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||Do not allow any outsider without screening: CM||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that outsiders should not be allowed to enter any area without screening. An infected person should not become a carrier and move in uninfected areas. He was reviewing the Coronavirus status in the state with officials on Monday. Chouhan said under no circumstances should the virus be allowed to spread and said this work should continue in areas which are Corona- infected and where survey has been conducted. Chief minister also directed to take actions to start the testing laboratory at Jabalpur so that the pace of testing work can be accelerated. He further directed that meetings of crisis management groups should be held in all the districts of the state and cooperation of public representatives should also be sought in Corona control. He sought detailed information from some collectors in this connection during the meetings. Collector Jabalpur informed that spread of Coronavirus is being controlled in urban and rural areas. Till date, 3,208 samples have been collected, of which 2,701 tests have been conducted and results received. The number of positive patients among these is 98, which constitutes about 4% of the samples tested. Only two positives were found in 314 tests taken on Sunday. On Sunday, 12 patients were discharged from the hospital while a COVID-19 death was registered in Jabalpur on Sunday. He inforned the chief minister that there were 15 containment areas in Jabalpur and 223 survey teams are at work. Collector Jabalpur said that all necessary measures are being taken in view of the problem in Sarrafa and Chandni Chowk in the city, the workers who came from outside have been kept under quarantine in the hostel. 57% of the city’s population has been surveyed and the containment area consists of 1.67 people. Chief minister Chouhan also sought information about the condition of the lockdown in Indore, Ujjain, Burhanpur and Raisen. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman said that 31 out of 1,207 samples tested Coronavirus positive in Bhopal on Monday. A total of 106 positive patients were found in the state. A total of 58 patients who recovered were sent home. 16 out of 111 in Burhanpur, 43 out of 421 in Indore, 10 out of 73 in Ujjain, two out of 32 in Raisen and one out of 49 samples in Morena have tested positive. Chouhan directed that there should be no infection cases among workers being brought together in tempos, trucks or by other means. In the event of the workers not being sent to MP from some southern states, efforts should be made again. Health Minister, Narottam Mishra, emphasized the need to improve Corona virus treatment facility in Ujjain. Mohd Suleman informed about arrangements being made in other hospitals of 100-bed capacity besides the designated COVID private medical college in Ujjain. In the meeting, chief minister also sought information about the disease control action from the additional chief secretary ICP Keshari and district collectors through video conference. Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and other officials were present in the meeting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/do-not-allow-any-outsider-without-screening-cm/articleshow/75542249.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t turn away non-Covid patients: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday directed the government to ask the doctors to not ignore non-Covid emergencies and also keep sufficient number of ambulances ready across the state to transport patients in dire need to the nearest hospitals. The direction came in the light of the death of a pregnant woman and her newborn child due to misinterpretation by authorities. “Issue a circular to this effect immediately and let the ambulance phone numbers are made known to all the people so that they can call the ambulances in emergencies,” said a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy after converting a letter written by advocate K Kishore Kumar as a Public Interest Litigation. The bench sought a reply from government by May 20. “You cannot deny medical aid to patients requiring it badly,” the bench told the state. The letter narrated how a young 20-year-old pregnant woman from Gadwal district was made to run to various hospitals in a 200-km radius to get urgent medical help. The doctors finally advised her husband to take her to Hyderabad where doctors at the government maternity hospital had refused treatment, on the grounds that since she came from a Covid-19 hotspot she should be subjected to novel coronavirus tests first. She was taken to Gandhi Hospital where her test results had come negative. The next day, she delivered a baby boy at the maternity hospital, both the mother and the child died within a few hours. Her husband held the state authorities squarely responsible for the deaths of his wife and son. The bench, while hearing another PIL by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao, sought to know whether there are any norms that mandate the state government to conduct Covid-19 tests on all bodies before cremating them regardless of the cause of deaths. The petitioner was seeking tests on all the dead persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dont-turn-away-non-covid-patients/articleshow/75543306.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||24-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19 in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 24-year-old man of Bhuda Magrasa under Jahanabad police station in Pilibhit district has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district's tally to four. The man was asymptomatic. He was admitted to district government hospital on April 29 after his bike had reportedly collided with a Nilgai, and he sustained bone fracture. Thereafter, he remained admitted at Swastik hospital in Pilibhit for a day before moving to a private hospital in Bareilly on May 2 where his test report for Covid was received on Sunday. The man is at present in Bareilly's L 2 hospital. His second sample was sent to government lab in Lucknow on Sunday night. The report's results are still awaited. Health officials in Pilibhit have now quarantined six members of his family and other contacts, five staff members of district government hospital and 29 staff members of Swastik hospital who had come in direct contact with the infected man. The Swastik hospital itself has been transformed into a quarantine facility. Their samples will be sent for testing to Lucknow. The district government hospital's premises has been completely sanitised as a precaution. Any further action would depend upon the disclosure of quarantined individuals’ test reports, said Dr CM Chaturvedi, the additional chief medical officer (ACMO). District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav said that the administration ensured prompt action in accordance with the protocol of containment zone in and around Bhuda Magrasa. “We have announced one km area of Bhuda Magrasa as containment zone while four villages situated within 3 km radius is part of the buffer zone," he said. ACMO Chaturvedi said thermal screening of villagers is in progress. Tehsildar of Pilibhit sadar circle Vivek Kumar Mishra said that movement of people in Bhuda Magrasa has been restricted. The village's main entry and exit points have been barricaded with presence of police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/24-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75542238.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Rice millers warned of being blacklisted||HYDERABAD: Civil supplies corporation chairman Mareddy Sinivas Reddy on Monday warned the rice millers that they would be blacklisted by the government if they harass the farmers over the crop’s moisture content and other damages in paddy while procuring it. Even the personnel working at paddy procurement centres set up by the government were warned that their commission will be stopped if it is found that they are colluding with rice millers and harassing farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rice-millers-warned-of-being-blacklisted/articleshow/75543297.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mayor demands rethink on relaxation of norms||PUNE: Mayor Muralidhar Mohol on Monday expressed displeasure over opening up of the city areas and demanded a review of the decision to avoid “serious consequences”. Unhappy with the reduction of the containment zone, the mayor sought a review of the decision, saying that people were venturing out in large numbers due to the relaxation, which might have serious consequences. The mayor has approached the district guardian minister Ajit Pawar and Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad to raise the demand. “We have seen on the first day of relaxation that a large number of citizens came out of their houses for buying things. A majority of them have flouted the social distancing norms. The efforts taken to control the Covid-19 spread may go in vain if such a liberty is given. Some people came from one part of the city to other to procure stuff,” Mohol said, while addressing a news conference. He said the issuance of orders and their implementation had been done in a hurry, leading to a chaos in the city. The orders issued by the corporation and the police lacked clarity, the mayor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-demands-rethink-on-relaxation-of-norms/articleshow/75544486.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Will north-coastal Andhra Pradesh be first to resume bus services?||VISAKHAPATNAM: North-coastal Andhra Pradesh is likely to be the first zone to see resumption of public transport services in the state if conditions laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs are met. Four districts— Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari— come under APSRTC’s north-coastal zone. Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and East Godavari have been identified as orange zones while Vizianagaram has been identified as a green zone. Therefore, with three orange zone districts and one green zone district, north-coastal AP is likely to be the first area to see resumption of RTC services. As per MHA guidelines, all activities except those prohibited nationwide are allowed in green zones. Buses can run with 50% capacity in green zones. However, the state has not taken a decision on this. Sources say that plans to resume bus services with proper precautions are being laid down and the district may see bus services resume after May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/will-north-coastal-ap-be-first-to-resume-bus-services/articleshow/75542247.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur’s first case recovers||Vadodara: A day after four Covid patients from Chhota Udepur district were discharged, one more patient defeated the virus and returned home on Monday. Sohail Ranger, 31, who lives in Vasedi area of Chhota Udepur town, had tested positive at a private hospital in Vadodara city on April 19 and was undergoing treatment here. After his consecutive test reports came negative, Ranger was discharged. Ranger is the 11th patient from the district to be discharged. Ranger was the first patient from Chhota Udepur town to have tested positive for coronavirus. Three more patients are still under treatment at general hospital and at a private hospital in Chhota Udepur. Health officials said samples of three patients were again collected on Monday and if their reports are negative, they too will be discharged in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepurs-first-case-recovers/articleshow/75541586.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Campaign to spread biodiversity awareness||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Biodiversity Board (TSBDB) has asked residents to document plants, crops, animals, birds, reptiles and insects in their residential areas to spread awareness on nature and diversity while people remain in lockdown. Kalicharan S Khartade, secretary, TSBDB launched the campaign on Monday. “In this lockdown situation the best way to connect with nature is to document the biodiversity of our village/locality,” he said. He said it would keep students occupied as they do not have to attend school. The TSBDB has created People’s Biodiversity Registers (PBR), which will contain comprehensive information on locally available bioresources including landscape and demography of a particular area or village. Anyone can provide information for these PBRs by filling in a google form available on the Board’s Facebook and Instagram pages as well as their website. This information will be used suitably after verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campaign-to-spread-biodiversity-awareness/articleshow/75543318.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Six-month-old girl among nine test +ve, Satranjipura cases at 101||NAGPUR: Nine persons, including a six-month-old girl, youngest so far from Nagpur district, tested positive for Covid-19 from the city on Monday, taking the district’s total to 160. Four of them are from Satranjipura, the city’s first Covid-19 hotspot. This took the number of positive cases from the locality to 101, which accounts for 63.12% of district’s total cases. Apart from this, six also got discharged, including an oral cancer patient. On the lines of Satranjipura, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) continued mass quarantine drive at Mominpura with 316 quarantined on Monday night. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We have quarantined around 1,900 people from this containment zone. We did not stop after quarantining family members of the deceased. It helped containing spread of Covid-19 in that particular area and also in other parts of the city. These 100 people might have spread the virus to over 40,000 more if guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) are to be believed,” he said. The six-month-old girl’s mother (29) and elder sister (5) also tested positive on Monday. The three were admitted at GMCH. Reports of 12 others from this family are awaited. Earlier in the day, there was some confusion over the age of five-year-old girl. GMCH, in its report sent to the NMC, mentioned her age as five months. Later, it was rectified when the patients were brought for admission in GMCH. A 30-year-old woman from Satranjipura also tested positive. All four are from 402 who were quarantined on April 29. A 68-year-old person had died at IGGMCH on April 5. His samples were tested positive on April 6. Since then, the NMC had started containment drive in Satranjipura and added five more as contacts also traced from those areas. Mundhe said, “The containment drive will continue.” NMC team led by Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane have been planning and executing containment drive for the last 28 days. The others who tested positive include three women and one man, all from Dobi Nagar near Ansar Nagar in Mominpura. They were among 88 people quarantined after 28-year-old woman from this area tested positive and delivered a baby girl on April 29. The number of cases from this chain increased to seven. The area is situated on west side of Mominpura and the earlier two chains are from the east side. The total number of cases from Mominpura, city’s second Covid-19 hotspot, increased to 34 which is 21.25% of district’s total cases. Now, Satranjipura and Mominpura account for 84.37% of the cases from the district. The NMC team led by assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin quarantined 316 more people from Choodi Gully, Mominpura. Total 14 from a family, including a 70-year-old deceased, were tested positive from this area. Total number of people quarantined from Mominpura increased to 614. A seven-year-old from Sangam Nagar tested positive. He is reportedly the son of brother-in-law of cancer patient who tested positive on April 27. Reports of 11 more family members of this boy are awaited. They are among 141 people quarantined on May 1. Among six discharged, an oral cancer patient and two more are from Shanti Nagar, one from Kundanlal Gupta Nagar and one from Satranjipura. All are from chain of Satranjipura. Sixth is a retired WCL employee from Kanhan. Now, all two positive persons from Nagpur Rural had recovered and discharged with earlier one was from Kamptee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-month-old-girl-among-nine-test-ve-satranjipura-cases-at-101/articleshow/75543309.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board evaluation in only 20 green zone districts||LUCKNOW: Evaluation of UP Board class X and XII answer scripts will only be done in 20 districts identified under the green zone from May 5-25. In fresh orders, principal secretary, secondary education, Aradhna Shukla said the evaluation is being deferred in 55 districts that come under red and orange zones. Separate orders will be issued for these districts. The decision comes following protests by teachers who had even threatened to boycott the evaluation. “There is no point in carrying out evaluation in a few districts. How will the results be declared with evaluation in 20 districts?” questioned RP Mishra, state secretary, UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh. He reiterated that UP government, like MP and Haryana, should consider sending answer copies to teachers’ home for timely evaluation and results. According to Shukla’s order of May 4, the detailed guidelines issued by the Centre following extension of lockdown till May 17 has led to the decision of deferring evaluation work in red and orange zones. According to officials, if a district is moved from green to orange zone, district inspector of schools (DIOS) should immediately inform the secondary education directorate. As per the order, 20 districts—Barabanki, Lakhimpur Kheri, Hathras, Maharajganj, Shahjahanpur, Ambedkarnagar, Ballia, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, Deoria, Farrukhabad, Fatehpur, Hamirpur, Kanpur Dehat, Kushinagar, Lalitpur, Mahoba, Siddharthanagar, Sonbhadra and Amethi—come under green zone.  The evaluation was to end by March and results were to be announced in April last week. However, now, results are expected to be declared in June last week. Close to 30 million answer copies are to be evaluated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-evaluation-in-only-20-green-zone-dists/articleshow/75544087.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||Jabalpur records 2nd Covid death||Jabalpur/Bhopal: While a 67-year old COVID-19 positive patient died in Jabalpur taking the COVID death toll in city to two, Satna district reported its first positive patient on Monday. Sources said the deceased in Jabalpur was hospitalized since April 27, when he was tested positive. He was also suffering from other ailments like high blood pressure, fracture in his leg. Apart from the death which was reported on Monday, five new patients also tested positive in Jabalpur, taking the tally of positive patients in the district to 103. Of these 103 patients, more than 80 have tested positive in the last 14 days. In Satna, district a person, who had come to the district in an ambulance from Gujarat tested positive for COVID-19, and was shifted to Rewa. However, he died during treatment. Sources said that the patient aged, 65, was suffering from multiple organ failure and was brought to Satna in an ambulance from Gujarat, his COVID positive test report came on Monday after which he was shifted to Rewa. His last rites would be performed in Rewa on Tuesday, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jabalpur-records-2nd-covid-death/articleshow/75542282.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Man accidentally hangs self while on video call in Andhra Pradesh||ELURU: In a classic case of video calling gone wrong, a person accidentally hanged himself in Malakapalli village, West Godavari, on Monday. Geddam Satish (35) is a resident of Malakapalli village and his wife works in Kuwait. Police said that their relationship was strained. On Sunday, Satish and his wife were arguing on video call. In order to threaten his wife with suicide, he stood on the cot and tied a noose around his neck and tied the other end of the rope to the fan. But it was while he was threatening and as his wife watched he slipped and accidentally hanged himself. Tallapudi police have registered the case and shifted the body to Kovvur government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-accidentally-hangs-self-while-on-video-call/articleshow/75542268.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||Use Haryana model to protect MSMEs in MP: FICCI to govt||Bhopal: As the industries, especially the micro, small and medium enterprises, struggle to survive the side-effects of Covid-19 lockdown, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) has ‘requested’ the state government to replicate ‘Haryana model’ to protect the MSMEs during this crisis. Though government claims that 5000 MSMEs have started functioning in the state, entrepreneurs expect the government to “be soft and considerate” towards them in this ‘hour of crisis.’ There are many issues, including the problem of power bills, pending with the government, they said. A press note issued by FICCI said the state government must follow Haryana MSME revival interest benefit scheme where ‘eligible industries would get 100 per cent interest benefits on loans available for payments of wages to employees and other expenses up to maximum of Rs 20,000 per employee.’ Representatives of the FICCI met the principal secretary, MSME, and apprised him of the scheme. “ Our MSMEs are running out of money to start operations. No cash flows, delayed payments, payments towards salaries of the work force and other fixed costs have steered the MSMEs into existential crisis,” stated the press note.Citing the Haryana model for the revival of the MSMEs, the FICCI press note stated, “We requested the government to consider a similar scheme or any other scheme in MP to help MSMEs meet their fixed costs, especially the salaries of their employees. This will also will help curb unemployment in MP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/use-haryana-model-to-protect-msmes-in-mp-ficci-to-govt/articleshow/75542262.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Campaign to fight coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Tata Trusts, a philanthropic organisation, has committed Rs 500 crore to the fight against Covid-19, collaborating with state governments to provide them with PPEs among other items. The exercise intends to create awareness, engage and educate rural masses. The campaign ‘5 kadam, Corona mukt jeevan’, ranges from video messages, short animation videos and infographics to audio messages and SMS based messaging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campaign-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75543302.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||Attacked by villagers, tiger dies during botched rescue operation in UP’s Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: An adult tiger, which was attacked and injured by villagers in Pilibhit, died during a botched rescue attempt by forest department officials who fired two tranquiliser darts at the feline, instead of one. The five-year-old big cat had strayed from Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Gajraula area. The tiger was suffering from three wounds, fractured ribs and internal haemorrhage. The autopsy was conducted at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly on Monday and its report will arrive in three days. While the forest department officials claimed that the animal died in the attack, wildlife activists said that it could have been saved. After receiving information regarding the death of the male tiger during the process of tranquillising, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Monday nominated a representative to be present during the post-mortem for assessing the causes leading to tiger death and submit an independent report. “Further action will be taken after receiving the report,” said the MoEF spokesperson. He said the NTCA informed the field director of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), Raja Mohan, to ensure compliance of the Authority’s standard operating procedure dealing with straying of tigers. Meanwhile, Dr BM Arora, president of Association of Indian Zoo and Wildlife Veterinarians, said, “Preliminary information about the external and internal injuries of tiger undoubtedly indicates that it was beaten by iron bars. The broken rib would have caused haemorrhage in his liver. Because the tiger was already struggling with serious injuries and internal haemorrhage, he possibly could not tolerate the heavy dose of tranquilizer and consequently died within a few minutes after being hit by darts.” Arora wondered as to how the forest officials failed to notice the injured condition of the tiger by its movement. “It was quite possible that two darts injected overdose of tranquilizer in tiger’s body,” he said. The tiger died 15 minutes after being hit by the two darts on Sunday evening. Kaushalendra Singh, a Lucknow-based wildlife activist, said, “I suspect that the tiger’s death was an outcome of overdose of tranquilizer. The tiger was hit with two darts, one after another.” Wildlife activists have written letters to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, principal secretary of forest Sudhir Garg and also to National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) for setting up a high-level probe into the death, and demanded stringent action against the guilty. On his part, deputy director of PTR, Naveen Khandelwal, said the tiger collapsed during the period it was under medical observation. “The tiger had three wounds in its trachea, as a result of which it died,” Khandelwal said. On being asked about cause of the death, field director of PTR, H Rajamohan, who was present in IVRI during the post mortem, said, “It will become clear only after autopsy report comes in three days.” “It would have been far better if the forest officials had thrown a net over the tiger to trap him after hitting him with one dart,” Arora said. India has 2,967 tigers in the wild, according to the latest tiger estimation report for 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attacked-by-villagers-tiger-dies-during-botched-rescue-operation-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/75542278.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Commercial activities start in Bundi, Baran after 40 days||Kota: With the lifting of 40-day long lockdown in green zones, the commercial activities in markets of Bundi and Baran districts, the green zones in Kota division, resumed with large number of people hitting the markets on Monday.Many shops, including those of sweets, barber, jewellery and garments, remained open from 9am to 7pm, while liquor shops from 10am to 6pm.The public transportation and Rajasthan roadways buses were allowed to ferry people within the district areas in Baran and Bundi.As per the guidelines, all business establishments were opened in the markets as per the scheduled timings and no restriction was put up on opening of the shops in the district, Bundi collector Antar Singh Nehra said.Precautionary measures of social distancing, face masks and crowding at a place were strictly followed in public places and markets.However, being in green zone, several other shops and commercial activities had already been going on in Bundi district, he said, adding that the government offices and education institutions are still closed.Rajasthan roadways buses were allowed to ferry people within the district with 50 % passengers to Nainwa, Lakheri and Keshoraipatan areas of Bundi, Nehra said.A large number of people were seen at the markets of district headquarters as well as in sub-divisional areas. While there was huge rush at cloth and general items shops, barbers too had a busy day with large number of people queuing up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/commercial-activities-start-in-bundi-baran-after-40-days/articleshow/75544095.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||BMC plans to install incinerators at main roads, junctions to ensure proper disposal of discarded face masks, gloves||BAREILLY: In an attempt to ensure proper disposal of discarded face masks and hand gloves – the usage of which has increased manifold in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic – the Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to install incinerators at prominent city junctions and roads. Officials at BMC said that initially four incinerators will be placed in four zones – one apparatus in each zone – and these will be the prime locations of the city. Later, more devices will be set up based on the response. Improper disposal of used face masks and gloves at roads, public places, etc., can spread infection. An incinerator is a device used in treating waste, which involves combustion of waste materials at high temperatures. Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “It has been observed that the demand for single-use face masks is high among locals. These are being preferred over the reusable masks. However, proper disposal of the used face masks and hand gloves is also important and that was not being practiced here. Improper disposal of these items at public places may result in spread of infection. Thus, to ensure safe disposal of such wastes and to curb chances of spread of infection, we are planning to set up incinerators at prime junctions in the city.” “Initially, four incinerators will be placed across four zones – one apparatus in each nagar nigam zone. The facility is most likely to come up near public toilets of nagar nigam so that these devices are simultaneously maintained by the workers deputed at BMC toilets for cleaning work. Later, the facility will also be made available at more places depending on the response. Installation of one incinerator would cost approximately Rs 40,000. The move would also help curb littering on roads,” the municipal commissioner added. The civic body is currently working on the plan. Meanwhile, BMC has tied up with an agency for handling bio medical waste. Door-to-door garbage collectors, deputed by the civic body, have been directed to collect such waste and hand it over to the agency which will ensure its proper disposal. Anand further added, “Locals are being requested to dispose of the used masks and gloves at their homes so that our garbage collectors can directly collect the waste material from their place. People are being sensitized against throwing used masks at public places. Once the incinerators are introduced, they will also be sensitized on making use of the device to curb the spread of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-plans-to-install-incinerators-at-main-roads-junctions-to-ensure-proper-disposal-of-discarded-face-masks-gloves/articleshow/75542290.cms||Maria Khan
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Govt: Cold storages to restart in UP||Lucknow: Giving further leeway to industrial operations, chief secretary RK Tiwari on Monday allowed six continuous process industries to start operations in the state, on fulfilment of certain pre-conditions. In a letter to district magistrates and commissioners, Tiwari directed them to allow these industries to start operations. These include cold storages, handling and pasteurization of milk by dairies, manufacture of glass by continuous automatic or semi-automatic process, manufacture of alumina, manufacture of aluminium metal and manufacture of pre-sensitive offset printing plates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-cold-storages-to-restart-in-up/articleshow/75544096.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Nearly 800 Telugu students stranded in UK to fly home||HYDERABAD: The Centre’s announcement on Monday about facilitating the return of Indians stranded abroad has brought cheer to nearly 800 students from the Telugu states stuck in UK. The students had gone to the UK in January for higher studies. Following the Covid-19 outbreak and universities shutting down, the students tried to return to India. Several of them had even booked their tickets to return a few days before the lockdown was announced. But flights had been cancelled by then. Of the 800 estimated Telugu students stuck in the UK, 100 are from Warangal, 75 from Karimnagar and another 50 from Hyderabad. These are not official figures but estimates as these students have contacted various organisations for help during the lockdown period and they were helped with accommodation and food. “After the announcement, the morale of the students is high and they are hoping for a quick return to India,” social worker Gampa Venugopal said. Along with various associations, he was instrumental in providing accommodation and food to several students who went to the High Commission of India (HCI), London as they had nowhere to go after their flights were cancelled. Various organisations have helped the students. Though some universities are conducting online classes, the students cannot stay back in the UK as they have no means of earning money through part-time jobs to meet their needs for accommodation and food, since there is no availability of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-800-telugu-students-stranded-in-uk-to-fly-home/articleshow/75543329.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Strict’ Secunderabad Cantonment Board keeps coronavirus at bay||SECUNDERABD: Secunderabad Cantonment Board the country’s second largest cantonment board has reported only two coronavirus cases. No deaths linked to the pandemic have been reported from the area as well. The SCB officials attribute this success to five factors : effective sanitisation, social distancing, restriction of street vendors, creating awareness among the citizens and most importantly, effective implementation of the lockdown. The 430-odd resident welfare associations played a key role in preventing spread of the virus. Despite having just two positive cases, third phase of disinfection in the area is underway. “We are sanitizing every bylane by spraying disinfectant and DDT power with the help of 10 specially designed vehicles. Our sanitation employees are working very hard. We have also used drones, 40 hand pumps and fire engines to cover lakes and other major junctions. So far, we have used 1,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite ,” said SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender. The official said that SCB is strictly implementing social distancing at shops and market. “We have been strictly enforcing the three-metre distance rule at grocery shops, vegetable markets and butcher shops. We have even penalised the shopkeepers who violated the social distancing rule,” Devender said. By using public address systems, SCB is educating citizens on the need to follow preventive measures to combat the virus. The SCB official credited 1,000 sanitation workers, who are involved in keeping roads clean and clearing garbage. Though SCB is a deemed municipality which comes under the ministry of defence, we have been quite effective, compared to GHMC, our neighbouring civic body||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strict-scb-keeps-coronavirus-at-bay/articleshow/75543332.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||HC admin advises lawyers to install Aarogya Setu app, use stairs||NAGPUR: After extension in lockdown till May 17, the Bombay High Court administration on Monday came out with a new set of directives for working of the lawyers, litigants and administrative staff across all courts during Covid-19 crisis. Though most of the directives continued as per earlier circular of April 16, the HC administration has put all annual general transfers in abeyance till April next year across all its benches in Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa. According to the new circular issued by HC registrar general SB Agrawal, all lawyers have been advised to install Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. “At all entry points of the court complex, identity proofs of advocates and litigants would be checked. A register would be maintained and visitors’ details would be noted in it, after thorough verification. No person would be permitted to enter the courts’ premises without wearing a mask. Liquid soap and water would also be made available at the entrance along with sanitizers,” the circular said. Agrawal also recommended all court administrations across state to earmark an isolation room on their premises in case any suspect with Covid-19 symptoms are found. “Anyone showing signs or symptoms after his apparent screening, shouldn’t be allowed to enter or remain in the court rooms,” it said. The circular added, the young staff members, lawyers and litigants should be encouraged to to make use of stairs for their own safety, instead of lifts. “Necessary social distancing should be maintained during transaction of the business. Wherever there is a provision of lift, it should be ensured that not more than 50% of the capacity is allowed at a time. All are advised to follow strict social distancing while accessing any department of courts,” it said. The circular said the court departments should endeavour to allot a time slot to address any query on the part of lawyers and litigants and adhere to it in consonance with the social distancing mechanism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-admin-advises-lawyers-to-install-aarogya-setu-app-use-stairs/articleshow/75543324.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||CMHS to host virtual seminar||Ahmedabad: The Centre for Management of Health Services (CMHS) at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) is scheduled to host a virtual healthcare research seminar series. The first seminar is likely to commence on May 8, whereas the last is slated to be held on November 13, said CMHS officials. Prof Chirantan Chatterjee, chairperson, CMHS, termed it as an evidence-based healthcare research seminar on global health and India. “We are leveraging technology to learn from the best-in-class researchers of the world who have agreed to present their latest findings. The theme will be the role of healthcare research in post-Covid-19 world and the seminar is interdisciplinary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cmhs-to-host-virtual-seminar/articleshow/75543335.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||Green power projects lined up as MP bats for clean energy||Bhopal: In an environment-friendly move, almost 29 per cent energy requirement of the state was recently fulfilled through green energy. Sources said, this is one of the highest contributions of green energy in a day in the state. Apart from the Rewa Ultra Mega Power Project, which is one of the world’s biggest solar power parks of 750 MW, situated in Gurh tehsil of Rewa district, several other green energy initiatives are being taken in the state. Official sources said that on May 2, 2020, 1893.96 lakh units of power were supplied to the state. In this supply, electricity received from unconventional power sources played an important role. Of this, 372.14 lakh units of power were supplied through solar and wind power while 159.68 lakh units of power was supplied by hydel power stations. Thus, the quantum of electricity received from unconventional power sources was 28.08 per cent, which is commendable. As per the demand of the time, the contribution of the power received through unconventional sources in the state’s power supply is quite wholesome, as it doesn’t damage the environment and actually helps in keeping it pollution-free. State government is also setting up 4000 MW solar power parks in Shajapur, Agar Malwa and Rajgarh districts; it would help the state make greater strides on green energy front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/green-power-projects-lined-up-as-mp-bats-for-clean-energy/articleshow/75542299.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Virus forgotten in Visakhapatnam as lockdown eased||Visakhapatnam: Relaxations after a 43-day-long lockdown led to people thronging city streets in thousands on Monday. With bikes and cars filling up roads, the city resembled its own self before the novel coronavirus stopped life as usual. Cops posted at various check-posts seemed helpless. Large gatherings were noticed not only outside liquor stores but in many parts of the city. Streets were buzzing with activity as shops opened and roadside vendors returned to business. But not everyone was excited at this public display of frolic which threw caution to the wind. “People converged on roads in large numbers and put their and other people’s lives at risk of contracting coronavirus,” said N Seetarama Sarma, a senior citizen. City police commissioner RK Meena said that relaxations to open shops and other establishments do not mean that people can move around on roads in large numbers. “We urge the people outside containment zones to act wisely, come out only for valid reasons and push back home as soon as possible. You should care about your own and your family’s health,” Meena appealed. But such appeals fell on deaf ears as people travelled from one corner of the city to another on Monday. “We were confined to our homes for the last 43 days. Finally, we got the opportunity to see our parents. Which is why we’ve come out,” said M Srinivas on his way to meet his parents. Vehicles in large numbers were seen from Anandapuram Junction to Anakapalli. Small commercial establishments opened and social distancing norms were given a miss. District collector Vinay Chand said that wearing masks and maintaining social distance is a must to guard against the virus. But on Monday, after 43 long days of being cooped up at home, people saw the lockdown relaxations as relief and a possible end to the crisis brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-forgotten-in-vizag-as-lockdown-eased/articleshow/75542283.cms||Siva G
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||RU asks for more time to utilise funds citing Covid||Jaipur: Rajasthan University has written to the various funding agencies to extend the date to utilize the funds till September 2020. As per norms, the university has to utilize funds till March but due to the lockdown they were unable to do so. The university has written to the University Grants Commission (UGC) for requesting the same and has asked its faculty members to give information about the individual funding they are getting from any agencies. University vice chancellor RK Kothari said, “Most of the funds have to be utilized in one financial year. Due to the lockdown, we were unable to process it till March so I have written to the agencies to provide us more time. I have also asked faculty members to give information about their fundings that were supposed to be over by March. Fundings that are continuous will have no problem.” However, sources in the university have questioned the reason for non-utilization of the funds. A professor from the university on condition of anonymity said, “Lockdown was imposed in March end, what was the university doing till then? Were they waiting for the end of the month to properly utilize the funds? These are just ways to hide the incompetence of the administration of the university. There have been incidents in the past where funding agencies have stopped the grant as they did not utilize it properly.” The university administration however says that it is not the entire amount but a certain portion of the amount which wasn’t utilized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-asks-for-more-time-to-utilise-funds-citing-covid/articleshow/75544099.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||No rush in Shahjahanpur, overcrowding in Bareilly & Kheri after liquor shops open||BAREILLY: The much awaited opening of liquor shops didn’t attract big crowds outside shops in Shahjahanpur, but elsewhere in Bareilly and Lakhimpur Kheri, residents forgot all social distancing norms as they crowded outside booze shops in large numbers. After failing to control the crowds, the Lakhimpur administration was forced to shut down some of the shops in the city. Most customers were found buying in bulk, fearing that the government might close down the shops again because of the Covid-19 fear. In Bareilly district, which is marked a Red Zone, residents said they did not expect liquor shops to open. When on Monday, they woke up with the surprise news, tipplers who had spent over a month without booze, couldn’t resist and rushed to the liquor shops. There were long queues outside the shops even before they had opened. Soon, police had to resort to threats that they will close the shops because of their eagerness, in order to ensure that customers maintained social distancing. A customer who bought a carton of his favourite tipple, said, “I am keeping stock for myself, as we never know when the government will shut down the stores again. I will buy one more carton of liquor, so that I won’t have to go out for the next two months. In Lakhimpur Kheri, customers were also seen clambering over each other for liquor, and cops had to shut the booze shop in Ramia Behad for some time. Darshan Singh, a Kheri resident, said, “I’m an occasional drinker but I have bought liquor for my labourers to motivate them to work hard. Every labourer asks for liquor after work, and we can’t deny their request.” In Shahjahanpur, people were seen maintaining social distancing, and there was no rush at shops in urban area. Om Prakash Gupta, a foreign liquor shop license holder, told TOI, “Sales were satisfactory, but not as much as we expected. We are hoping the sales figures will rise in the coming days, as many people have started going to work and other businesses have also reopened in Shahjahanpur, since it is marked a Green Zone and we don’t have any active Covid-19 case here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-rush-in-shahjahanpur-overcrowding-in-bareilly-kheri-after-liquor-shops-open/articleshow/75542320.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress deeksha for farmers today||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress leaders will sit on a one-day deeksha on Tuesday in protest against the alleged indifferent attitude of the state government in solving farmers’ problems. While senior Congress leaders will observe the deeksha at Gandhi Bhavan, the others will undertake the deeksha at their residences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-deeksha-for-farmers-today/articleshow/75543336.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Sub-registrar offices to open from Tuesday in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to open all sub-registrar offices from Tuesday. Special chief secretary, Dr Rajat Bhargava, said the decision has been taken due to hardships faced by the public in registration and other purposes. Accordingly, the offices of the sub-registrars would start functioning from Tuesday in all the 13 districts, except in containment zones. The government has asked the staff at the offices of sub-registrars, district registrars and the DIGs of the stamps and registration department to wear face mask at the work place. The general public visiting these offices were also told to wear face masks, a compulsory guideline during the lockdown. Social distancing has to be ensured during the registration process. Registrations would be done on a first-come, first-serve basis. The government has instructed the staff to ensure that the disinfectant measures are followed on the documents to be handled, the pens used for signatures and the ink pads used for taking thumb impression. The government has asked the officers and the staff to use disinfectants on gates, doors, tables, chairs and other material to be used by the staff and the general public in the course of registration. The officers in all offices will have to be online and ensure that physical distance is maintained in the office by the staff and the public, besides keeping the premises clean and disinfectant. The government has instructed the officials to prevent gathering of more than five people at one place. The officers were further asked to ensure that no one, including the staff members, is allowed into the office without face mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sub-registrar-offices-to-open-from-today/articleshow/75542311.cms||Gopi Dara
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||AIR ready to broadcast school lessons soon||Jaipur: Educational content for school students will be broadcast on All India Radio (AIR) very soon in the state. According to the state education department, the content will be provided by them and AIR will broadcast it for free. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Monday announced that an agreement was reached between the government and AIR. “We have written to Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javdekar to provide us 55-minute slots on radio from where we can provide content for students sitting at home during summer vacation. Prasar Bharti has agreed to it and we will provide them the content,” Dotasra said. As per the agreement, the period of broadcast is from May 1 to June 30. The content will be provided in a pen drive or a CD drive to All India Radio. However, the content is yet to be prepared by the state government. Neeraj Aggarwal, additional director general of West Zone AIR, said, “We will broadcast the content from 25 radio stations in Rajasthan. This is a scheme of AIR where the willing state governments can come forward to provide content. A MoU will be signed between the state government and AIR to get the copyright of the content provided. The timing is yet to be fixed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-ready-to-broadcast-school-lessons-soon/articleshow/75544098.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||536 stranded migrants left shelters in 2 days||NAGPUR: With the easing of lockdown norms for stranded people, as many as 536 migrants sheltered in Nagpur after the Covid lockdown was imposed, have started their homeward journey in the last two days. “On May 3, 160 migrants left for Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan etc. On Monday, 376 migrants left the city,” said NMC’s deputy municipal commissioner Ranaja Lade. The city police is arranging private buses owned by Hansa Travels to take these stranded people to their native places free of cost. Amid coronavirus scare, the NMC had opened five shelter homes to accommodate the stranded people. With the influx of migrants continuing, the NMC in association with different NGOs and institutions had increased the number of shelter homes to 23. At present, 913 migrants are staying in different shelter homes across the city. Until May 2, 1,415 stranded people had been staying at these places, said Lade. Nine migrants sheltered in Tuli Public School had reportedly fled the city. Koradi police had also registered a case in this regard. The NMC with the help of social activists Neerja Pathaniya and Neha Patel managed to send back all the 120-odd migrants staying in Tuli Public School. Now, the shelter home has been shut, said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/536-stranded-migrants-left-shelters-in-2-days/articleshow/75543343.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||Shramik Special trains a sort of chartered service||LUCKNOW: Operation of Shramik Special trains is riddled with confusion, where railways said it merely plays the role of a facilitator, while the state government is the decision maker. Shramik Specials are ‘point to point’ service, starting from the originating station and terminating only at the destination station. Though there may be an operational stoppage in between, no boarding and deboarding is allowed there. “It’s a planning between two state governments, the one that is sending passengers and the other that receives passengers. It is only after the sender gets clearance from the receiver that railways is informed. It is like a chartered train,” said a senior official. Another officer termed these trains as a poorly planned project. “The train that came to Agra from Sabarmati on Sunday had most passengers who were Kanpur-bound and the one that came to Kanpur from Ahmedabad had passengers who had to go to Agra,” he added. Shramik Special trains, which were launched on May Day (May 1) to send stranded migrants to their home states, have put railways in an overdrive with officers saying they are informed hardly four to five hours in advance about the train that is scheduled to come from western states. Since regular services are not operating, rakes and crew are readily available. On May 2, UP received three of these trains and on May 3 five reached UP from Maharashtra and Gujarat. About 10,000 people have been brought to UP from the western states. There has not been any outgoing train from UP till now. IRCTC is providing free meals, snacks and water to passengers travelling in these trains. The trains, that have 24 sleeper coaches, can carry 800 to 1200 passengers. Beyond that social distancing would be compromised. While official machinery of the sender state brings passengers to the station after thorough medical check up, at the destination station, it is the receiver state that arranges for transportation of migrants to their native places. The ‘sender’ state also gives fare to railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shramik-special-trains-a-sort-of-chartered-service/articleshow/75544106.cms||Neha Shukla
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Finish pending work before monsoon, says KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: To expedite works pertaining to road under bridge (RuB), road over bridge (RoB), slip roads and link roads in the city, municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao has directed South Central Railway (SCR) officials to complete pending projects in their jurisdiction before the monsoon hits the city. An RuB at Hi-Tec City MMTS station as well as the Anandbagh RuB have been delayed for years after SCR reportedly did not execute/initiate process pertaining to the works swiftly. Chairing the meeting, which had representatives from various government departments and SCR, at GHMC head office on Monday, the minister said: “Permissions and all assistance will be given to South Central Railway for completing the works.” KTR also emphasized that works should be completed on war footing basis. He also asked SCR officials to complete the work before monsoon and utilise the lockdown period as there was relatively no traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finish-pending-work-before-monsoon-ktr/articleshow/75543348.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gotru put in charge of three posts||Ahmedabad: In an order released late on Monday, it was informed that Gujarat cadre IPS officer of 1993 batch, Neerja Gotru Rao, who is holding the post of additional DGP of monitoring cell will also be in charge of administration, Ahmedabad with the post upgraded as special commissioner of police. She will be relieving IGP Premveersingh of the charge of administration, Ahmedabad city. She will continue to hold the post of Add. DGP - monitoring cell. Gotru will also hold the charge of Ahmedabad police HQ with the post upgraded to special commissioner of police. Thus, she will be in charge of three high-level posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gotru-put-in-charge-of-three-posts/articleshow/75543344.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Cure.fit cuts 10% staff, shuts some ops||Bengaluru: Fitness-to-food delivery startup Cure.fit is laying off about 800-1,000 people — roughly 10% of their total staff across the group — in one of the largest layoffs in the startup world as the business gets hit due to Covid-19. The affected employees include trainers, HR executives, and staff trainers across Cult.fit, the fitness arm. Other major verticals of the startup, Eat.fit and Mind.fit, have also seen cuts. The company is closing operations in small towns and and UAE, it said Started in 2016 by Myntra co-founder Mukesh Bansal and senior Flipkart executive Ankit Nagori, the company runs 230 fitness centres across India and has offline food outlets as well as cloud kitchens to serve online orders. Since Covid-19’s spread in India, these businesses have been directly impacted. TOI spoke to four of the laid-off employees, all of who were angry that they were asked verbally to resign with about a 45-day payment. “They won’t tell us in writing that we have to resign, nor the basis for it. I left my studies to join Cure.fit and now we are being forced to resign overnight. How will I earn my livelihood?” said Anmol Mahawar, one of the staff of Cult.fit. Many others are also facing similar issues. A group of 100-150 such employees have created a WhatsApp group to push the company against the move. Cure.fit did not respond to TOI’s email query on the matter. The four fired staff said they have also started an online campaign on Change.org, a petition portal, against what they see as an unfair move by cure.fit, which closed a new financing round of Rs 832 crore in March from Singapore’s Temasek and other investors. Cult.fit trainers told TOI the company recently signed up celebrities for virtual classes and even donated Rs 5 crore to the PM Cares fund but then it is forcing staff to resign and saying that if they don't, the company won't give them the severance package. Cure.fit is said to be planning to focus on its online offerings going forward. In a post on Twitter, Cure.fit said it has retained 90% of its trainers on a fixed-plus-variable pay model to ‘tide over the crisis’. “We have downsized our employee base across markets where we have shut operations and have initiated pay cuts across levels,” it said. The founders have taken a 100% pay cut, while the same for the rest of the management is 50%. The staff, based on seniority, would see pay cuts of 20-30%. Cure.fit said it has created a Rs 2 crore emergency fund for the affected staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cure-fit-cuts-10-staff-shuts-some-ops/articleshow/75543356.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Youth in live-in relationship found killed in Churu||Jaipur: A youth who was in a live-in relationship with a married woman was found murdered in Churu’s Hamirwas police station area on Sunday. The couple was staying together since a year after the woman separated from her husband. According to police, he was murdered on Saturday and his body was found in the field the next day. His family has registered a case of murder against 10 persons and his partner has alleged that her in-laws as well as her parents and others were behind the murder. The deceased was identified as 25-year-old Om Prakash who was killed when he was returning after dropping his partner at her parent’s house in Jhunjunu district around 10.30 pm on Saturday. Hamirwas SHO Tejwant Singh said, “The deceased’s father has registered a case of murder and named 10 accused in the FIR. According to the complainant, Om Prakash was killed by his partner’s in-laws as well as her own family. He claimed that her estranged husband and her parents as well were against her for staying with Om Prakash.” According to the cops, Priyanka’s husband had also filed a case against Om Prakash that he was forcibly staying with her. However, Priyanka had given a statement that she was staying with Om Prakash out of her own free will.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-in-live-in-relationship-found-killed-in-churu/articleshow/75544100.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||No rush in Shahjahanpur, overcrowding in Bareilly & Kheri after liquor shops open||Bareilly: The much awaited opening of liquor shops didn’t attract big crowds outside shops in Shahjahanpur, but elsewhere in Bareilly and Lakhimpur Kheri, residents forgot all social distancing norms as they crowded outside booze shops in large numbers. After failing to control the crowds, the Lakhimpur administration was forced to shut down some of the shops in the city. Most customers were found buying in bulk, fearing that the government might close down the shops again because of the Covid-19 fear. In Bareilly district, which is marked a Red Zone, residents said they did not expect liquor shops to open. When on Monday, they woke up with the surprise news, tipplers who had spent over a month without booze, couldn’t resist and rushed to the liquor shops. There were long queues outside the shops even before they had opened. Soon, police had to resort to threats that they will close the shops because of their eagerness, in order to ensure that customers maintained social distancing. A customer who bought a carton of his favourite tipple, said, “I am keeping stock for myself, as we never know when the government will shut down the stores again. I will buy one more carton of liquor, so that I won’t have to go out for the next two months. In Lakhimpur Kheri, customers were also seen clambering over each other for liquor, and cops had to shut the booze shop in Ramia Behad for some time. Darshan Singh, a Kheri resident, said, “I’m an occasional drinker but I have bought liquor for my labourers to motivate them to work hard. Every labourer asks for liquor after work, and we can’t deny their request.” In Shahjahanpur, people were seen maintaining social distancing, and there was no rush at shops in urban area. Om Prakash Gupta, a foreign liquor shop license holder, told TOI, “Sales were satisfactory, but not as much as we expected. We are hoping the sales figures will rise in the coming days, as many people have started going to work and other businesses have also reopened in Shahjahanpur, since it is marked a Green Zone and we don’t have any active Covid-19 case here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-rush-in-shahjahanpur-overcrowding-in-bareilly-kheri-after-liquor-shops-open/articleshow/75542301.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC property tax collection set to dip||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government’s decision to roll back 5% discount for commercial property owners has resulted in a major dip in city’s property tax collection. Before 2020, under Early Bird Scheme (EBS), all property tax owners (residential and commercial) used to get 5% rebate on property tax. Under EBS 2020-21, GHMC received Rs 137.93 crore property tax from 2.95 lakh households in April. In May, the collection stood at Rs 6.20 crore (till May 3). Under the same scheme, GHMC was able to collect Rs 535 crore tax in April in 2019-20 from 4.92 lakh households. “Rolling back the discount offer for commercial establishments is the primary reason and coronavirus is also one of the reasons for dip in the tax collection,” said a GHMC official. Before 2020, the scheme was open only in April. However, due to coronavirus, the civic body has extended EBS till May 31 this year. “As per our estimates, we cannot cross Rs 500 crore mark this year,” he said. Under EBS , residents of GHMC Khairatabad zone covering Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and central parts of the city were the highest property tax payers (Rs 34.87 crore) followed by Serilingampally zone (Rs 31.15 crore) covering the city’s IT corridor. While all the residential property owners got 5% tax rebate, residential property owners in LB Nagar constituency got 7.5% tax rebate and commercial property tax owners got 15% tax rebate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-property-tax-collection-set-to-dip/articleshow/75543339.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Demand for bushmeat fuels poaching of endangered species||Jaipur/Jaisalmer: As many meat shops are closed during the lockdown and demand is high, illegal trade of bushmeat is flourishing in the state. Many districts, including Jaisalmer, Nagaur and Bikaner, have become favourite spots for poachers and Chinkara (Indian Gazelle) meat lovers in Rajasthan. The growing demand for bushmeat during lockdown locally is making poachers increasingly hunt down these endangered species (Indian Gazelle) for money. A villager in Kolayat, Bikaner, who wished not to be quoted as he buys meat often, said, “At this time, we pay Rs 550 per kg to the meat supplier.” The forest department on Sunday night seized 37kg raw meat from alleged poachers in Kolayat. Mokhram Dharniya, a wildlife lover, said, “Poachers in the area became active after the lockdown as they fetch good money from selling bushmeat. We were keeping a vigil on a notorious poacher, Babulal, who is also a local. We helped police to catch him last night.” Though, the forest department has not confirmed, it was a meat of wild animal and samples were sent to FSL, sources said. With people indoors due to lockdown, poachers are having a good time in the state. On Saturday, one Chinkara was killed by unidentified poachers in Lavan village falling under the Pokhran police station. This was the sixth incident in the past two weeks in the region and 13th in the state where Chinakra, falling under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, was poached. DFO Bega Ram Jat said, “The unidentified poachers shot the animal. However, could not manage to take it away as villagers came out of their houses after listening to the gunshot. The department is searching for the poachers.” Sources in forest department said, there is spurt in poaching incidents as demand for meat fuels during the lockdown. “The poachers can fetch 2500 to 3500 for killing an animal. As there is sparse public movement killing the animal is easier. Usually, people of many communities in the area protect these animal from poachers,” said source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-bushmeat-fuels-poaching-of-endangered-species/articleshow/75544114.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Five district collectors come under fire||AMARAVATI: The state government has criticised district collectors of Krishna, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore and Chittoor for failing to respond sooner to contain the spread of coronavirus. This comes in the wake of the health department carrying out a detailed analysis of the reasons for the spike in Covid-19 cases in each district in the last one month. The health department examined the spread of the virus in each of the red zone districts. They took note of the number of cases reported per day and sent feedback to the district collectors explaining as to where they erred in tackling the dreaded virus. The health department has directed the collectors on the measures to be initiated to contain the spread of Covid-19 in their respective areas on war footing basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/five-district-collectors-come-under-fire/articleshow/75542329.cms||Samdani MN
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Special classes for special kids during lockdown in Jaipur||JAIPUR: From teaching kids to exercise, giving them assignments or telling them about the benefits of wearing masks, online classes for special children are difficult for both teachers and students. Hundreds of students in Jaipur study in special schools and during lockdown they are facing plenty of problems apart from just being stuck at home. Meena Rajput, principal of Lakshay Special School in Jaipur, said initially students showed aggressive behaviour. “Suddenly, they were stuck in homes so they showed restlessness and aggressive symptoms. Now they have become used to it but still making them sit for two hours is difficult as they have less attention span. We have students with multiple disability, intellectual disability and autism. Some students need regular exercise or their body becomes stiff. If we miss a few sessions we have to start from scratch. We need to teach students as per their disability,” said Rajput. Prayas Special School, Jaipur’s principal, Kalpana Mehta, showed concern about difficulty to arrange for online classes. “Most of the students in our school come from economically weaker backgrounds. We cannot start online classes as not everyone can afford a smart phone or even if they can, parents have different priorities. Parents have to be counselled most of the time to give special attention to their children as their priority is their survival,” said Mehta. Most students cannot just the material given, so practical tasks are given to them so that they will learn something useful at home. Deepak Kalra, principal of Umang Special School said that they have given different tasks to students. “We asked them to measure things at home with an inch tape to learn about measurement. Identify different pulses, vegetables or make some art work. Children with various disabilities are studying here and in online classes we are focusing on their problems individually,” said Kalra. Schools are finding ways to prepare their students about social distancing and wearing masks in school after the lockdown is lifted. “Students with autism are very sensitive with cloth and they immediately remove the mask if worn by parents. We have asked parents to make them wear masks at home for at least 30 minutes to 2 hours. We are focusing on teaching our children about social distancing which is a humongous task. But we are slowly preparing them so after the lockdown is lifted, we won’t have to start from scratch,” said Kalra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-classes-for-special-kids-during-lockdown/articleshow/75544113.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bareilly||Three days after delivering baby, woman tests positive for Covid-19||BAREILLY: A 28-year-old woman who gave birth to a baby on Friday at a private hospital in Bareilly has tested positive for Covid-19. After the health department received her test report from a private laboratory on Monday, the woman was shifted to a Covid-19 level 2 hospital. However, the newborn’s test for novel coronavirus will be conducted after four days. Besides, staffers at two city-based private hospitals where two novel coronavirus patients were admitted have been quarantined. The woman, a native of Faridpur town of Bareilly, delivered a baby boy at a private hospital in Rampur Garden here. The hospital authorities had sent her samples for Covid-19 test to a private laboratory. The report arrived late on Sunday night. “The doctors who performed the caesarean section claimed that they had donned PPE kits during the operation. However, as there is a risk that hospital staff may have come in contact with the woman after the surgery, we have disinfected the hospital and quarantined staff here only. Though the condition of the woman and her newborn is stable, they were shifted to Covid-19 level 2 hospital because the nursery facility is unavailable at Covid-19 level one hospital,” said Dr Ranjan Gautam, district surveillance officer. He added that all 65 samples were tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday. Officials said they are investigating how the patient contracted the virus and the number of people with whom she came in contact with. Officials have quarantined eight family members of the patient's family. A team led by district epidemiologist, Dr Meesam Abbas, on Monday collected 38 samples of the private hospital’s staff where the woman had delivered the baby. The hospital staff was quarantined at the hospital premises only after it was disinfected. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old youth who is a resident of Pilibhit and had undergone surgery at a private hospital in Bareilly’s Pilibhit Bypass was tested positive at a private laboratory. Eight patients who were undergoing treatment at this hospital were shifted to a private medical college on Monday. Besides, eight members of this hospital were quarantined at a 300-bed hospital and their samples were collected for novel coronavirus test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-days-after-delivering-baby-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75542326.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: APSCHE to follow UGC guidelines on exams, routine||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has preliminarily decided to implement the recent guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission with regard to exams and new academic calendar. As per the UGC guidelines, which are advisory in nature, the exams are proposed to be conducted in July. While the next academic session (2020-21) for the existing students will commence on August 1, classes for the freshers are likely start from September 1. APSCHE chairman Prof K Hemachandra Reddy said that the APSCHE is ready to implement UGC’s guidelines. “But we are keeping our fingers crossed as it all depends on the quantum of Covid-19 disease incidence and its effect. In fact, we conducted a meeting with vice-chancellors of all the state universities to chalk out the future course action on exams and next academic year on April 27. Apart from UGC’s suggestions, we have also been working out alternatives due to the ongoing uncertain conditions,” said Prof Reddy. When asked about the scope for conducting online exams, Prof Reddy said the APSCHE is not prepared for online exams due to bandwidth and infrastructural issues. “We should take all the 10 lakh students into consideration while mulling such move as the majority of the state’s students come from rural background. UGC is particular about conducting the exams without compromising on the quality aspect,” said Reddy. As per the UGC, the universities are expected to adopt efficient and innovative modes of examinations by reducing the time from three hours to two hours. The terminal semester/year examinations can be conducted offline or online by strictly adhering to the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsche-to-follow-ugc-guidelines-on-exams-routine/articleshow/75542347.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||COVID-19 one more death, 31 test +ive in Bhopal||Bhopal: The state capital on Monday reported 31 new cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 563, according to health bulletin. Another death was reported in Bhopal taking the total number of coronavirus-related deaths to 16. According to AIIMS Bhopal press release, a 62-year-old male patient breathed his last in ICU on May 4. He had Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Sepsis as co-morbidities and was admitted on April 25 and shifted to ICU on April 26. Some 36 patients are presently admitted in AIIMS Bhopal hospital. The new positive cases were reported from Mangalwara area. Five new cases were reported from a family in the walled city area. Other areas where new cases have been diagnosed are from Kolar, Jehangirabad, Koh-e-Fiza, Ratibad, Shahpura, MP Nagar, Aishbagh, Tilajamalpura, Habibganj, Talaiya, Shyamla Hills, Cholla Mandir and TT Nagar. Four staff more were discharged after their treatment was completed as per protocol, at AIIMS Bhopal. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, 12 staff members of AIIMS Bhopal including a senior resident, nine nursing officers, one security guard and a house keeping worker were reported positive for Covid-19. Now all have been deemed as recovered. AIIMS Bhopal, director, Dr Sarman Singh, expressed his happiness to acknowledge the fact that now no staff member is remaining as patients after discharging the last lot of twelve staff members. While addressing them he congratulated them and distributed certificate of ‘corona warrior’ and desired that they could be ambassadors of AIIMS administration for other HCWs in spreading the message that corona could be defeated with discipline and dedication. He urged that their sacrifice and contribution should be acknowledged and appreciated while they go back to their families and community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-one-more-death-31-test-ive-in-bhopal/articleshow/75542349.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Shock in the offing? PCL mulls power tariff hike||LUCKNOW: You may have to brace for another hike in the power tariff. UPPCL has submitted a fresh business plan to Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) which suggests increasing revenue requirement in the coming months. UPPCL sources said if the plan gets UPERC approval, then the corporation would file a fresh annual revenue requirement (ARR) report, thereby paving way for a revised power tariff. The move comes nearly six months after UPERC gave nod to increase in power tariff by around 12% across various categories of consumers. Top sources in the corporation confirmed to TOI that a fresh ARR is being prepared. UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar said the decision on power tariff revision rests with the regulatory commission. He said UPPCL has already submitted a 5-year business plan, detailing the quantum of electricity wheeled into the state grid and the revenue proposed to be recovered from the consumers. Ideally, ARR is submitted by the end of every year after which the commission studies it and decides on tariff revision by the beginning of a new financial year. This year, however, ARR could not be filed on time in the wake of corona pandemic. Sources said UPERC had objected to delay in submission of ARR and warned UPPCL that it would be forced to initiate suo motto proceedings and decide on the power tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shock-in-the-offing-pcl-mulls-power-tariff-hike/articleshow/75544121.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Over 33,000 seized bikes released||HYDERABAD: Over 33,000 two-wheelers, which were seized for violating lockdown rules here were released on Monday. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted on Monday morning with details of number of bikes released during the past few days. “The bikes were handed over to the owners due to lack of parking space at police stations and safety concerns. The owners’ identity and address proofs were collected. They will have to appear before court after the lockdown,” said a west zone police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-33k-seized-bikes-released/articleshow/75543378.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Col never looked for job, Army was his passion||Jaipur: Thirteen attempts and six-and-a-half years later, Colonel Ashutosh Sharma realised his dream of becoming an army officer. The family said Sharma did not even try for any other profession and suffered hardships in joining the defence services. Sharma, who was martyred in Handwara during a counter terrorism operation, always wanted to join the army. According to his family, the martyr’s only regret was that he did not get to wear the maroon beret—a synonym for joining as paratrooper. His mortal remains were brought to Jaipur on Monday and the funeral is scheduled for Tuesday. The martyr’s family vividly recalls his passion for joining the army, though it took a great deal of effort and the struggle was real to achieve what he had set out to do. The deceased soldier’s elder brother Piyush Sharma, visibly choking on his words told TOI, “Ashutosh always had one aim which was to join the army. It was an uphill task but he never gave up. He would clear the written examination but it was the Service Selection Board (SSB) interviews which he did not clear till he finally did in the 13th attempt.” Piyush is just a year older than the Colonel.“Although we had a wonderful childhood, there was a time when our family was going through a major financial crisis. There was no money for Ashutosh to go for the SSB interviews but he travelled in sleeper class and slept next to the washrooms after spreading newspapers on the floor. He was so focused and hardworking. In fact, even I wanted to join the army but could not due to circumstances. He lived the dream for both of us,” he said. A source of motivation for the family, the martyr’s nephew has decided to continue the tradition and said that he would also join 19 Guards, which was his uncle’s parent unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/col-never-looked-for-job-army-was-his-passion/articleshow/75544117.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||IBM CEO Krishna's base salary set at $1.5m, annual incentive target of $3m||BENGALURU: IBM CEO Arvind Krishna will receive a base salary of $1.5 million effective April 6, the date that he took charge. As per filings with the US SEC, Krishna's 2020 annual incentive target is $3 million, prorated for the April to December period. The board also approved a 2020 long-term incentive award of $13.8 million for Krishna, comprising 35% of restricted stock units (RSUs) and 65% of 2020-2022 performance share units (PSUs). These RSUs and PSUs will be granted on June 8. “RSUs will vest 25% on June 8, 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, provided Krishna is an active IBM employee on these dates (unless certain requirements are met to be eligible for continued vesting). PSUs will be adjusted based on performance and will be paid out in February 2023,” IBM said in the filings. Krishna's predecessor Ginni Rometty was paid $20 million in compensation in 2019, as per the 2020 notice of annual meeting & proxy statement. She was paid $2 million as base salary and a bonus of $11.6 million last year. IBM president James Whitehurst’s base salary is $1.2 million, effective April 6. His annual incentive target is $1.8 million for 2020, prorated for April to December. Whitehurst was CEO of Red Hat before it was acquired by IBM last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ibms-krishna-will-get-1-5m-base-pay/articleshow/75543377.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Administrative work recommences at TTD||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams resumed administrative operations on Monday following the Centre relaxing lockdown guidelines. TTD closed the Tirumala temple and other temples under its administrative purview across the country on March 20. TTD had also suspended work at its administrative building and asked its employees to work from home. Although TTD’s administrative operations resumed, uncertainty still looms large as to when the Tirumala temple and other TTD temples across the country will reopen to pilgrim worship, especially in the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the state as well as in other parts of the country. The TTD administration has taken several precautions to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus at its headquarters. TTD has made it mandatory for all employees attending office to wear face masks. Thermal screening of all employees has been arranged at the entrance of the administrative building. While seated inside the office, employees have been asked to maintain a minimum distance of six feet from one another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/administrative-work-recommences-at-ttd/articleshow/75542362.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Some hire help to buy booze||Bengaluru: At a little past 8am on Monday, Chandrappa, a daily wage worker, alighted from an SUV and joined a growing queue outside a liquor store in JP Nagar. He was armed with some buns, biscuits and a bottle of water, courtesy ‘Saar’ who dropped him. Chandrappa,30, was among many who were hired to stand in line to buy liquor for their more affluent ‘masters’. Some were paid in cash and others in bottles. Chandrappa was ‘hired’ by a techie in whose house his wife works as a maid. The 9am-6pm store timings clashed with working hours, so the techie opted to hire Chandrappa. “Saar called me on Saturday and asked me to stand in line. In return, he promised me a bottle of rum. He even picked me up from home and said he will drop me back as well. I have no work and anyway I wanted to buy a bottle for myself,” said Chandrappa. Bhuan, a teetotaler, was paid Rs 250 to stand in for a manager in a multi-national company. “I work as an office boy and my pay was cut. Every rupee counts.” Harish Madhav, a senior analyst, said hiring someone was the first thing that popped into his mind on learning about the store timings. He had used the same strategy a few years ago to get an application form to admit his daughter in a school. “I have to log into work at 8.30am and had meetings lined-up thereafter,” Harish said. “My driver was happy to help and I paid him Rs 500.” Separate queue for women Many women complained about being jostled around and even jeered by men in queues. As a result, a few liquor stores in Kaggadaspura, Whitefield and Electronics City, which saw a reasonable footfall of women, decided to form a separate queue for them. “No one stared at the men, but we were made to feel uncomfortable,” said Rachana Pradhan, who stood in line for over three hours. “We were deliberately shoved around and one person even asked what I was doing there. Thankfully, the store made a separate line for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/some-hire-help-to-buy-booze/articleshow/75543086.cms||Manuja Veerappa
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||On Day 1 of lockdown 3.0, people flout rules brazenly in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Residents were seen loitering around the city on Monday, without any regard for the necessary precautions required in the wake of the pandemic. Many were seen flouting the lockdown norms and social distancing went for a toss. Traffic was back to near normal on many city roads as people thronged the liquor shops. Despite Jaipur being under the red zone, there was traffic rush, crowds at the grocery stores, markets and too many people out on streets in the city. Barring barber shops and sweet shops, a majority of the shops and stores remained open, which included medical stores, grocery stores, vegetable stores. In the evening, senior police officers of Rajasthan police headquarters said that strict action would be taken against those who are found roaming around in the city without a valid pass or reason. Heavy rush and long queues were seen at the liquor shops in some parts of the city. At some places, police had to intervene to maintain order. The liquor shop owners too had made white circles at a distance to ensure social distancing is maintained but many were seen flouting the rule. “I will have a beer crate,” said a 30-year-old man who wished not to be named, while purchasing beer at Jagatpura in city. BL Soni, additional director general (crime) urged public to maintain social distancing and wear a proper mask. “We are also not allowing entry of five people at a place. Also, for those who are roaming around without any reason, action is being taken against them,” he added. Jaipur district as a whole, including the city and rural parts, is under red zone, but excessive traffic in the city revealed the lack of rule enforcement by the police and the district administration. Though curfew remained intact in the Walled City areas and other identified areas including Sodala and Sushilpura, yet by and large, people in the city were seen roaming around casually. “Also, we found the workers of various factories on the road,” said a police officer posted at Amrapali Circle, Vaishali Nagar. Senior police officer said that at many places, police have caught youths and couples who were roaming around in the city with a doctor’s prescription. “One of the couples we caught hold of told us that they were going to see a doctor and when we checked their prescription, it was from October 2019,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-day-1-of-lockdown-3-0-people-flout-rules-brazenly/articleshow/75544127.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Business||Open malls in 3 phases, multiplexes to come last: Malls body||Bengaluru: Malls, as and when allowed to become operational, should open in three phases with the first phase including supermarket, infant’s clothing, electronics and salon, the Shopping Centers Association of India (SCAI) has proposed. In the second phase, it proposes food courts being opened. Multiplexes should be the last, it says. The closure, which started sometime in the middle of March, has now been extended till May 17, resulting in losses of hundreds of crores of rupees and threatening jobs. Salon & spas are proposed to work with 50% capacity and attend customers based on prior appointment only, while in case of dine-in outlets, seating is proposed to be reduced to half, with adequate separation between tables. SCAI said wearing masks would be mandatory. It has also proposed sanitisation and cleaning of all common areas, including toilets, lifts and entrance areas, every 30-60 minutes. Retailers and mall owners have said that the post-Covid shopping experience will be unlike anything that shoppers have experienced as entry inside stores will be restricted. SCAI, which counts Nexus Malls, Prestige, Infiniti, DLF and Lulu among its members, has also proposed using only 50% of the parking areas and not allowing any events and promotions to take place in the common areas to prevent large gatherings. Elevators, it said, should not have more than three people at a time, and on escalators, there should be a 3-step gaps between two customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/open-malls-in-3-phases-multiplexes-to-come-last-malls-body/articleshow/75543395.cms||Avik Das
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||‘Don’t be scared, keep a positive frame of mind’||Vadodara: Don’t be scared of coronavirus. Don’t have a negative mindset if your report comes positive for Covid-19. These were the words of 49-year-old staff nurse Mamta Gosai when she was discharged from city-based Sterling Hospital on Monday. Gosai, the first patient from Vasna-Bhayli area of the city to test positive, was admitted at the hospital where she worked as staff nurse on April 18. “With a positive mindset and determination, you can win the battle against Covid-19 and fully recover,” said Gosai. “She is working with us for the past 16 years. Our entire team of doctors, nurses and other staff are thankful to her for her services,” said hospital’s zonal director Anil Nambiar, who along with other staff members gave a cheerful discharge to Gosai. She also received a warm welcome on reaching her apartment building at Vasna-Bhayli Road. With Gosai’s discharge, total number of patients discharged in Vadodara has reached 147. Three other patients, including two from Godhra and one from Narmada, were also discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. Those discharged from Gotri hospital included five-year-old Drashti Rajai, 20-year-old Khushi Rajai (both from Godhra) and 60-year-old Savita Tadvi (from Narmada district). Drashti is the third kid to be discharged from the hospital, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dont-be-scared-keep-a-positive-frame-of-mind/articleshow/75541634.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Arrange amenities for migrants, says SHRC||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) has directed the state government to arrange transportation and providing basic amenities to those in need during lockdown. “The state, in the interest of all migrant workers, labourers and other stranded persons, should give necessary instructions to all the district collectors for their immediate identification and classification,” TSHRC wrote in a letter. HRC advised the state to take care of food and other minimum requirements of stranded persons, who are leaving to their natives places on foot and other difficult means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/arrange-amenities-for-migrants-shrc/articleshow/75543400.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kolkata||Thirsty Kolkata queues up for liquor after 41-day break||KOLKATA: Hordes of people were out on the road even before daybreak on Monday. Within a couple of hours, there were serpentine queues at several places, bringing back memories of the rush for tickets of Amitabh Bachchan-starrer blockbusters in the ’80s. This time, however, the queues were in front of liquor shops, which had opened after a gap of 41 days. Just like cops had to manage queues that had spilled onto the road when Big B’s ‘Shahenshah’ — his first film after his return to movies from politics — released in 1988, officers in uniform and plainclothes had to be posted outside liquor stores on Monday. Social distancing norms went for a toss in the first half of the day as hundreds queued up back to back, forcing cops to even resort to mild lathi-charge at some places and shut down a number of off-shops before the state excise department tweaked the timings. Some liquor shops had even started issuing handwritten coupons to manage the queues. At Regent Stores on Hazra Road, there was a queue of around 800 people by 9am, all of whom stood close to each other on the pavement. As the shop opened around 10am, the crowd swelled at the counter, alerting cops from Kalighat police station to rush to the spot and disperse the mob. “I could not even manage a sip of whisky for the last two weeks. I was desperate and so I jumped a few in the queue,” said Santosh Shaw, a resident of Panditiya Road. The scene was similar at Golf Green where the owner of a liquor shop had to call cops to seek help. At both the places, police forced the owners to shut down shops. “We had no orders from the excise department at that point,” an IPS officer told TOI. It was only in the afternoon that the state excise department issued a detailed order with tweaked operational timing of noon to 7pm for off-shops and putting a cap on the maximum number of bottles per person at two. At Dhakuria, cops deployed men from the queue to help them draw circles on the road to ensure social distancing norms were maintained. Two sergeants were managing the bikers and three police vehicles stood parked as cops warned of possible arrests if rules were broken. Bikas Samanta, who came to buy liquor from Panchanantala, said, “I stood in the queue from 5am. Many people came here but they were told the shop will open at 3pm. But I waited,” Samanta said. The scene was similar across the city — from Behala to Kalighat and Garia to Esplanade. At New Market, several persons even came from faraway containment zones in north and east Kolkata, where the wine shops hadn’t opened, to buy liquor. Salt Lake too, had a huge rush of tipplers as TOI found three wine shops near City Centre I witnessing equal amount of rush through the afternoon and evening. “I stay near Ruby rotary where no wine shop has opened. One of my friends told me that shops around New Market were open. So I came here today to buy my bottles,” said Monika Rai, a young professional standing outside a New Market liquor store. Many excited youths in containment zones of Burrabazar and Shyambazar area had also left for south and central Kolkata and queued up outside wine shops for over three hours. “People residing within containment zones may also want to have a drink or two. The government can consider to allow some shops to open on rotational basis,” said Pankaj Upadhyay, who stays on Kalakar Street in Burrabazar, which is one of the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tamaghna-liquor-shops-opened-may-4-2020/articleshow/75542363.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: RTC to move migrants & essentials||HYDERABAD: After successfully ferrying healthcare staff during lockdown, Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has arranged 36 buses that could be used to ferry migrant labourers stranded in the city to their native towns. “We are not completely aware if these buses are being arranged to transport migrants,but based on the requisition given by police department, we are arranging the buses,” a senior TSRTC official said. Additionally, TSRTC buses will also be used to move essential commodities. “The civil supplies department will take up the supply of pulses, edible oil and also tackle shortage of petroleum products,” an official said. The corporation has also been moving cargo, using one vehicle from each depot to transport goods for internal purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-to-movemigrants-essentials/articleshow/75543417.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tree of letters growing fast, student entries cross 50,000||Thiruvananthapuram: Aksharavriksham (Tree of Letters), a programme announced by state general education department with an aim to ignite literary flair of school students during lockdown period, has received over 50,000 entries. The poems, stories and articles written by students on select topics are first published in School Wiki portal. The selected works among them would be published in book format by SCERT. So far, two volumes have been published and is available in School Wiki. Students in Classes 1 to 12 contribute to the School Wiki developed by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE). “KITE has made all necessary arrangements, including helpdesks in all districts, to upload contents till May 5,” said K Anvar Sadath, CEO, KITE. All contents uploaded can be seen at www.schoolwiki.in. Among the works, poems are highest in number (over 22,000), followed by articles (19,000) and stories (9,000). In addition to these, KITE has also formulated a new programme titled ‘Muthodu Muthu’ to telecast selected videos of creative contents of students, including pictures, in KITE’s VICTERS channel. For this, the pictures and videos limiting to 3 minutes duration have to be send to the mobile number 8921886628 via WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tree-of-letters-growing-fast-student-entries-cross-50000/articleshow/75540933.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||Govt offices across state reopen with limited strength||Dehradun/Mussoorie: The secretariat and other government departments reopened in Uttarakhand on Monday with 33% of total strength on Monday. The remaining government employees were allowed to work from home. All the government officials who attended their offices were instructed to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. In yet another significant development, the district administration has decided to give nod to the businesses (or shops) that have still not been allowed to reopen. The permission will be given after careful consideration of the application for the same by their owners. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava told TOI, “In case, there are any specific trade which have not been included in the previous list issued on Sunday, the business owners can file their application with the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned. The matter will be considered by the administration and their trade will be included in the list within a week’s time.” On Sunday, the district administration had issued an elaborate list of shops that have been allowed to open on a daily basis and those which can remain open only thrice a week. The shops and business centres that have been permitted to function on a daily basis include departmental stores, all private offices, gas agencies, confectioners and bakers, book store and stationary shops, dairy, licensed meat shops, medical stores and vegetable market and stores selling agricultural products and equipment. Whereas the shops that have been allowed to operate only thrice a week include ready-made garments stores, tailor shops, opticians, electrical appliances, showrooms, including the service centres , furniture showrooms, hardware and sanitary showrooms, automobile showrooms along with the service centres, and photo studios. According to guidelines, the taxi operators have been asked to accept bookings over phone. However, businesses like salons, spa, beauty parlors, gyms, and dry cleaners have been excluded from the list till further orders. Meanwhile, tipplers started queuing up in large numbers outside liquor shops in Dehradun early on Monday morning as liquor shops were reopened after government announced some relaxations for the third phase of Covid-19 lockdown. The queues — stretching over 1-2 km at some places — were seen outside liquor shops located at Clock Tower, Mothrowala, Sahasthradhara Road, Prem Nagar and Patel Nagar. City police had to use force to disperse the people standing in queues to buy alcohol after finding out that social distancing norms were being violated blatantly. This is despite police instruction to liquor vendors to draw circles outside the shops for maintaining equal distance between the consumers. Notably, Dehradun has been put under orange zone and the state government notification allows standalone private shops selling non-essential items to remain open between 7 am and 4 pm. Liquor shops had been shut across the country since the nationwide lockdown began in March. According to Shweta Choubey, superintendent of police (city), “Long queues were witnessed outside liquor shops in Dehradun city. Police even had to shut down a few shops in the city after receiving complaints that social distancing is not followed. Overall, police managed to keep everything under control.” The liquor shop at Clock Tower had to be closed by police after it was found out that people were not following social distancing norms. The shop witnessed a two-kilometre long queue right from early morning hours to 3.30 pm. These tipplers didn’t just include people from affluent and middle class but also from lower-income group. Around 1.30 pm, cops found a middle-aged daily wager buying three full bottles of English liquor. On being asked how he got the money to buy liquor, he said, “I had saved this for liquor.” The man claimed to be resident of a slum near Sahastradhara Road and said that he had walked over six kilometres to buy liquor. He had been to three other wine shops which were closed. On being asked if he had taken free ration from police in the last 45-days of lockdown, he answered with a smile — “Yes, five times”. The wine shops also saw huge rush of women. While some were buying alcohol for themselves, others were standing in queues for their male friends or husbands. “My husband came to the liquor shop but the men’s queue was too long. As our home is nearby, he asked me to buy two bottles for him and I agreed,” said a woman who had covered her face with her stole and didn’t want to tell her name. In Mussoorie also, a heavy rush was observed at liquor stores after they lifted shutters on Monday after nearly a month-and-a-half shut down. Long queues were observed outside liquor shops from as early as 7 am. “The government might retract the relaxation during lockdown and close the liquor shops again. So, we queued up early to ensure we are able to collect our stock,” said a city resident who did not wish to be named. According to shopkeepers, people were purchasing liquor in significantly large quantities. “People are buying several bottles and we had some customers who even bought full cases of liquor,” said a salesman at a liquor shop. Tipplers said that they were buying liquor in sufficient quantities so that it lasts for some time. Due to the rush, police was deployed at each shop to ensure that social distancing norms were being followed. It is worth mentioning that other shops in the town – particularly garment shops – which opened after a long time on Monday hardly witnessed any sale. Reacting to the long queues outside liquor shops, Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal said that he was shocked to see such large crowd gathering outside shops to purchase liquor. “I feel that the government must rethink on its order of opening liquor shops which has thrown social distancing to winds. If this continues, the efforts of coronavirus warriors in the last 40 days will go in vain. The government must also check as to from where these men are getting money to buy liquor”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-offices-across-state-reopen-with-limited-strength/articleshow/75542387.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||‘STP project for Namami Gange 98% complete’||Haridwar: About 98% work on construction of 30 sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange project of the Union government have been completed, officials associated with the project said. “The construction was not affected by the lockdown as almost all the STPs were completed before February, months ahead of schedule," Namami Gange general manager KK Rastogi said, adding that "credit for clean Ganga as witnessed during the lockdown should also go to the STPs.” Rastogi added that in all 30 STPs of total 131.75 MLD capacity were to be constructed in the state. These included 2 (0f 82 MLD) in Haridwar and 3 (of 38.5 MLD) in Rishikesh. While a 14 MLD STP at Sarai village and 68 MLD STP at Jagjitpur village became operational in December 2019 and January 2020 respectively, the three STPs of 5 MLD, 26 MLD and 7.5 MLD in Rishikesh started functioning in September 2019, February and March respectively, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stp-project-for-namami-gange-98-complete/articleshow/75542378.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Transgender community faces a tough time during lockdown||BENGALURU: With lockdown restrictions in place and social distancing a must, members of the transgender community are finding their source of livelihood severely hit. Mostly dependent on begging at traffic signals, on trains and crowded public places like markets, transgenders are now staring at an uncertain future. With no economic resources to support themselves, community members fear running out of supplies and money soon. A few NGOs have extended financial support to the transgenders, many of who suffer from serious ailmets, to buy rations and medicines. In Bengaluru, a large number of transgenders stay in places like Dasarahalli, Hebbal, Magadi Road, Amruthahalli, Bapuji Nagar, Vijayanagar, Bommanahalli, Hosa Road and Kamakshipalya. “We are facing a big crisis since our livelihood has been affected due to Covid-19. There is no source of income. Some NGOs have distributed kits, which would last only for a few weeks. The government should provide us food kits for at least two-three months,” said Soumya, a transgender. Rajesh Umadevi Srinivas of Sangama, an NGO working for human rights of sexual minorities, said: “The condition of transgender community has turned from bad to worse after Covid-19. Many are struggling to pay their monthly rents and buy medicines.” “Their future looks bleak even after the lockdown is lifted. We have distributed 3,404 ration kits to transgender community members in other districts. We should now start thinking about how they are going to survive after the lockdown and an action plan should be formulated,” Rajesh added. Veena S, a transgender, said: “Many house owners are threatening us that we should vacate if we can’t pay rent. Our community is the most affected due to Covid-19, but there has been not enough support from the government so far.” A spokesperson from the Archdiocese of Bangalore said they have distributed 300 food kits in Magadi Road for transgender community members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/transgender-community-facesa-tough-time-during-lockdown/articleshow/75543430.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||UP MLA violates curbs to 'perform rites of Yogi Adityanath's dad', held||BIJNOR/DEHRADUN: UP police on Monday arrested independent MLA from Maharajganj in UP Amanmani Tripathi and six of his aides from the Najibabad area as they were crossing the UP border from Uttarakhand. The MLA has been accused of violating lockdown restrictions and trying to travel to Badrinath and Kedarnath on the pretext of performing post-cremation rites of UP CM Yogi Adityanath's father, Anand Singh Bisht, who had passed away recently. The UP government had earlier in the day issued a clarification saying that neither had the CM authorised Tripathi to go to Uttarakhand on his behalf nor had the state government given him permission to do so, and that he had gone there of his own accord. Uttarakhand police had also registered an FIR on Sunday against the legislator at Rishikesh for violating the lockdown. Tripathi’s permission to travel to Badrinath (which is currently closed) as well as Kedarnath was facilitated by a letter written by Uttarakhand additional chief secretary Om Prakash to the Dehradun district magistrate (a copy of which is with TOI) asking that permission be granted to the MLA and his aides to travel in three vehicles. The letter also adds that all of them are going to the shrine towns to participate in rituals for the UP CM’s deceased father. According to sources, the legislator and his aides had started from Dehradun on May 2 and crossing two districts — Tehri and Pauri Garhwal—had on Sunday reached Gauchar in Chamoli district with the intention of proceeding towards Badrinath when a team of officials stopped them. Speaking to TOI, Vaibhav Gupta, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Chamoli, said, “The legislator intimidated our team posted at Gauchar when they stopped him and started having an argument with them and threatening them to let him proceed.” The officials thereafter contacted Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria who told the MLA that the Badrinath shrine was currently closed and he cannot be allowed to go there. The MLA returned to Rishikesh where his vehicles were intercepted by a police team. Uttarakhand director general (law and order) Ashok Kumar told TOI, “A police team at the Muni-ki-Reti checkpost at Rishikesh intercepted the three vehicles and an FIR under the relevant provision of the Disaster Act, was registered against the MLA and his aides for violation of lockdown. UP police was also apprised about the entire case.” Meanwhile, UP police officials said that the MLA and his aides have been booked under sections 268, 269 and 188 of the Indian Panel Code, sections 51 of Disaster Management Act and section 3 of the Epidemic Act. "All seven persons will be quarantined for 14 days. Their samples will also be taken and sent for testing. If their reports come negative, they will be released,” said Bijnor SP, Sanjeev Tyagi. Meanwhile, reacting to the matter, Yogi Adityanath’s younger brother Mahendra Singh Bisht, said, “Our family is surprised at the whole incident. These people had simply used our father’s death as a ground to get permission for travelling in Uttarakhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-mla-aides-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-trying-to-go-to-badri-kedar-on-pretext-of-conducting-rituals-for-yogis-father/articleshow/75545912.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 5, 2020||Meerut||UP MLA violates curbs to 'perform rites of Yogi Adityanath's dad', held||BIJNOR/DEHRADUN: UP police on Monday arrested independent MLA from Maharajganj in UP Amanmani Tripathi and six of his aides from the Najibabad area as they were crossing the UP border from Uttarakhand. The MLA has been accused of violating lockdown restrictions and trying to travel to Badrinath and Kedarnath on the pretext of performing post-cremation rites of UP CM Yogi Adityanath's father, Anand Singh Bisht, who had passed away recently. The UP government had earlier in the day issued a clarification saying that neither had the CM authorised Tripathi to go to Uttarakhand on his behalf nor had the state government given him permission to do so, and that he had gone there of his own accord. Uttarakhand police had also registered an FIR on Sunday against the legislator at Rishikesh for violating the lockdown. Tripathi’s permission to travel to Badrinath (which is currently closed) as well as Kedarnath was facilitated by a letter written by Uttarakhand additional chief secretary Om Prakash to the Dehradun district magistrate (a copy of which is with TOI) asking that permission be granted to the MLA and his aides to travel in three vehicles. The letter also adds that all of them are going to the shrine towns to participate in rituals for the UP CM’s deceased father. According to sources, the legislator and his aides had started from Dehradun on May 2 and crossing two districts — Tehri and Pauri Garhwal—had on Sunday reached Gauchar in Chamoli district with the intention of proceeding towards Badrinath when a team of officials stopped them. Speaking to TOI, Vaibhav Gupta, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Chamoli, said, “The legislator intimidated our team posted at Gauchar when they stopped him and started having an argument with them and threatening them to let him proceed.” The officials thereafter contacted Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria who told the MLA that the Badrinath shrine was currently closed and he cannot be allowed to go there. The MLA returned to Rishikesh where his vehicles were intercepted by a police team. Uttarakhand director general (law and order) Ashok Kumar told TOI, “A police team at the Muni-ki-Reti checkpost at Rishikesh intercepted the three vehicles and an FIR under the relevant provision of the Disaster Act, was registered against the MLA and his aides for violation of lockdown. UP police was also apprised about the entire case.” Meanwhile, UP police officials said that the MLA and his aides have been booked under sections 268, 269 and 188 of the Indian Panel Code, sections 51 of Disaster Management Act and section 3 of the Epidemic Act. "All seven persons will be quarantined for 14 days. Their samples will also be taken and sent for testing. If their reports come negative, they will be released,” said Bijnor SP, Sanjeev Tyagi. Meanwhile, reacting to the matter, Yogi Adityanath’s younger brother Mahendra Singh Bisht, said, “Our family is surprised at the whole incident. These people had simply used our father’s death as a ground to get permission for travelling in Uttarakhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-mla-aides-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-trying-to-go-to-badri-kedar-on-pretext-of-conducting-rituals-for-yogis-father/articleshow/75542394.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Impact of lockdown easing will be known in a fortnight||BHOPAL: The impact of limited relaxation in lockdown along with the opening of some offices and businesses would be felt in about a week to a fortnight, according to experts. As a trend, infection has been reported in some areas. Services such as some trading activity was permitted in Mangalwara, Budhwara and Jumerati — the wholesale retail market in the state capital. On the other side are areas like Aheer Mohalla in Jehangirabad. People residing there are involved in milk supply. There was a lot of movement in these localities that led to the spread of Covid-19. This is where the spurt in infections was the strongest in Bhopal. Similar spurts need to be avoided. One way to do this early detection and sticking to social distancing, said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) associate professor and Covid-19 testing and response team led by Dr Parag Sharma. Around 1,200 people are in quarantine in Bhopal. “In about seven days, we can realise the trend. It would also depend on new cases of infection related to upper respiratory tract or URI. To contain the spread, the most important thing is early medical intervention. If a person starts sneezing along with sore throat, immediate medical attention is crucial to control the spread,” said Dr Sharma, a senior pulmonologist at Hamidia hospital. “The virus will not go away. To contain it, people need to adhere to guidelines pertaining to quarantine and social distancing,” said Dr Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/curbs-eased-but-impact-to-be-known-in-a-fortnight-experts/articleshow/75542392.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati lab gets 24 samples on Day 1, reports today||AMRAVATI: The Covid-19 testing lab at Sant Gadgebaba Amravati University has started its operations from Monday with the first lot of 24 throat swab samples it received from the Covid Hospital here. “The collector had asked us on Sunday to start sample testing. Accordingly, 24 samples were received this morning and the testing work is on. The test reports are likely to be submitted on Tuesday,” said Amravati University registrar Dr Tushar Deshmukh. “To begin with, we can deliver 48 reports a day and very soon we will be able to deliver 100 reports a day,” he said adding this capacity would further be expanded to deliver 200 test reports a day. The lab, set up at the central instrumentation cell building in accordance with Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) guidelines for Covid-19 and biosafety guidelines, has got Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval on Friday last. The lab has four rooms equipped with all safety measures and instruments for sample testing. Dr Prashant Thakare of biotechnology department is the nodal officer, while Dr Neeraj Ghanwate of microbiology department and Dr Prashant Gawande of botany department are the officers at the lab where research students have been trained in sample testing. The report presentation work will be done by Dr Mukesh Burange and Dr Ujjwala Kawane from Superspeciality Hospital here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-lab-gets-24-sampleson-day-1-reports-today/articleshow/75543434.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||Chaos as liquor shops open in Mumbai; cops vow to get tough||MUMBAI: Thousands of thirsty tipplers crowded liquor shops across the city even before they opened their shutters on Monday morning,over a month and a half after the lockdown was announced. As chaos prevailed and social distancing norms went for a toss, the police were forced to shut shops at some places. The police also resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd in Ghatkopar, Mulund, Dahisar and Malad. Late in the evening, the Mumbai Police stated that from Tuesday, patrolling will be intensified and personnel will deployed at all liquor outlets to prevent overcrowding . “Strict action will be taken against those who flout lockdown guidelines,” said DCP Pranay Ashok, Mumbai Police PRO. Police have asked liquor shop owners to issue tokens from Tuesday so that people don’t have to wait for hours in queues or crowd at the counters. Officials said only 30% of the nearly 800 liquor stores in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region were operational on Monday. Liquor vendors said barely Rs 5 crore worth of alcohol was sold across the region as most shops opened late after receiving the official directive from their district collectors and had to shut by 6pm. In a related development, paan kiosks will not be allowed to operate in the city as their patrons would unmask in public places to chew or smoke. Even spitting could be dangerous, said a senior FDA official, adding that some paan stalls sell chilled aerated drinks and bottled water, which are hazardous to health in such times. While sale of liquor has been allowed across the state, 15 districts—including parts of Thane, Palghar, Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalna, Buldhana and Amravati—have issued notifications stating that liquor shops will not be allowed to open till May 17, the extended lockdown deadline. Excise officials said that in Thane, district collector Rajesh Narvekar has refused sale of liquor in urban areas and allowed its sale in those rural areas that are not containment zones. Bhushan Gagrani, secretary to the CMO, said the excise department had issued directives allowing all liquor shops to open, except in containment zones. “However, special powers have been delegated to district collectors under the Epidemic Diseases Act, by which they can stringent the restrictions even if the state has given relaxation by citing necessary reasons,” he added. As similar scenes were witnessed in other cities of the state following the lockdown relaxations, CM Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern and said the authorities should take action. In Mumbai, there were reports of overcrowding even before the liquor shops had opened in places like Sion, Matunga, Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli in the eastern suburbs, and Dahisar , Kandivli, Malad and Oshiwara in the western belt. At Pedder Road, the police monitored a long queue even as no untoward incident was reported in south Mumbai. In the Pali area of Bandra (W), two liquor outlets opened by late afternoon and soon large crowds started thronging, forcing the local police to shut one of them by 5pm after residents complained about congestion. “A wine shop was shut down by cops in a housing complex in Versova after the building residents complained about the unruly crowds," said Sahil Kalantri, who works for an NGO. In Ambernath, police dispersed crowds outside four liquor shops, which were then forced to shut down after just 90 minutes on Monday morning. In Kalyan-Dombivli, the local civic administration did not permit shops to open, and many people who had stood in serpentine lines had to retun empty-handed. In Navi Mumbai too, the municipal commissioner did not allow shops to open, thereby disappointing hundreds who had queued up since morning. (Inputs by S Ahmed Ali, Mateen Hafeez, Pradeep Gupta, George Mendonca, Sandhya Nair & Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chaos-as-liquor-shops-open-in-city-cops-vow-to-get-tough/articleshow/75544155.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||Facing losses, homestay owners in U’khand turn to agriculture and apple farming||Nainital: With the novel coronavirus threat and lockdown plunging the hospitality sector into losses which may take months to recover, homestay owners in many parts of the state have turned to agriculture and horticulture to make up for their losses. Ajay Bhatt, owner of Himalayan Abode, a homestay in Joshimath town in Chamoli district said that he has incurred losses of over Rs 15 lakh since the lockdown was imposed and with no prospect of the tourism industry getting back on track anytime soon, he is working on his apple orchard as well as agriculture land which he had abandoned for years. "All the bookings at my homestay have been cancelled till August. The lockdown has caused significant losses for the entire hospitality sector and therefore with no prospect of things being normal anytime soon, I have started working on my apple orchard. Though we owned it but I would rarely visit the area which is barely a few kilometres away from my home but now not only I but almost all the people in the area have shifted their focus on the orchards," he said. Malika Virdi, director of Himalayan Arc which identifies itself as community-run enterprise of 18 homestays in Sarmoli, a village in Munsyari block of Pithoragarh district, said that agriculture and allied activities are helping the village survive the brunt of the lockdown. "All bookings for the next several months have been cancelled. Tourism used to bring significant revenues for the village but because of the lockdown that has come to a complete halt. Most of us have agricultural land and we are now focussing more on that so that we are able to bear our losses," Virdi said. According to state government figures, there are over 2,100 homestays in Uttarakhand. These homestays, spread across the Himalayan state, are a major source of income for families in some of the remotest locations while also sustaining the local economy. The government had recently set a target of developing around 5,000 such homestays but the pandemic and resultant lockdown have made it almost impossible to achieve the target. The tragedy however has also presented many homestay owners with opportunities. They say that they can now diversify the business and make agriculture, apple farming, animal rearing and local crafts an attraction for tourists. "It is necessary to diversify. Tourism is a fragile industry and in the past few years we have witnessed that. First, the financial crisis of 2008 brought the industry to a halt and then there were the 2013 floods and now this pandemic. Therefore, it is necessary that we use the opportunity to develop agricultural practices as well," Virdi said. Bhatt on the other hand said that they are now planning to use the agriculture as well as animal rearing activities to attract more tourists once the lockdown is lifted. "The entire concept of homestays is to give tourists an experience of life in the hills. Therefore, the local craft as well as farming practices and animal rearing can be an attraction for the tourists who have never experienced these things," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/facing-losses-homestay-owners-in-ukhand-turn-to-agriculture-and-apple-farming/articleshow/75542400.cms||Prashant Jha
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gultekdi, Mandai veggie markets to remain shut||PUNE: The wholesale vegetable-fruit market at Gultekdi Market Yard and the main retail vegetable market at Phule Mandai are unlikely to reopen soon due to their proximity to containment zones. Retail vegetable vendors from non-containment zones, however, said that they were planning to operate throughout the day after easing of lockdown restrictions to provide more relief to consumers. The civic administration has allowed functioning of vegetable shops in both containment and non-containment zones. Meanwhile, the wholesale traders in the Gultekdi market said that they have not received any communication from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) regarding resumption of business. “We believe that business did not resume because the market area is located near a containment zone. . It is unlikely that the market will resume operation before May 17,” said Vilas Bhujbal, leader of wholesale traders at APMC. APMC sources said that they were evaluating the possibilities to see how business can resume to some extent after the latest relaxations in the city. At Mandai, the city’s largest retail market, shops continued to remain shut on Monday. The local traders said that the police and civic administration should allow the market to function. The Mandai market has been shut for the past three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-mandai-veggie-markets-to-remain-shut/articleshow/75544160.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Judge, legal body feed hundreds across Hyderabad during shutdown||HYDERABAD: When migrant workers from Bihar, who were provided shelter at NTR Nagar School behind the Rangareddy district court complex, said they cannot satiate their hunger without roti and that they cannot survive with just rice, Rangareddy principal district judge Y Renuka and district legal services authority secretary Uday Kumar promptly supplied wheat flour and made arrangements on the school premises to prepare rotis there. Curries were supplied to them. This was just a small part of what the DLSA did. Ever since the lockdown was announced and many poor people started going without food, legal services’ officials along with scores of paralegal volunteers have been helping women, children, girls, differently abled, mentally challenged, at shelters for migrants, old-age homes, etc, located all over erstwhile RR district and ensuring that inmates of the homes are adequately fed. Judicial officers and staff mobilised funds on their own and also involved the state machinery wherever required to keep the feeding programme going without interruption. Apart from supplying groceries and rice in the slum areas with the help of paralegal volunteers who are part of DLSA, help was extended to the vulnerable sections during the lockdown period at areas such as Vanasthalipuram, Samshabad, LB Nagar, Uppal, Amberpet, Quthbullapur, Dundigal and Medchal where several homes and temporary shelters for the poor were provided. Uday said some Marwari community people in Medchal have also helped in feeding a hundred poor persons daily. “In most shelters, GHMC Annapurna canteens have also been catering to the needs of the people in these shelters. Some software professionals are also extending help to us regularly,” Uday told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/judge-legal-body-feed-hundreds-across-city-during-shutdown/articleshow/75543453.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||Harvest & trade in elusive high-altitude caterpillar fungus collapses due to lockdown||Pithoragarh: Every summer, residents of high altitude villages in the Himalayan valleys of Munsyari and Dharchula hunt for the elusive caterpillar fungus, also known as Himalayan Viagra (also known as Keeda Jadi or Yartsa Gunbu in traditional Chinese medicine), in the alpine bugyals (meadows). The parasitic fungi grows on bodies of a particular type of moth larva that is found only in these bugyals in early summer, just when the snow melts — and eventually kills and mummifies the caterpillar — which then becomes the commodity. For many of these migrant high altitude villagers, Keeda Jadi is their sole source of income. This year, lockdown and poor weather has disturbed the annual Keeda Jadi harvest, which normally begins in mid-April. “Every year, residents of villages Bona, Tomik, Golfa, Balthi, Mirtoli, Rapti, Chulkot, Bothi, Bui, Panto and Namik of Munsiari sub-division trek to Panchchuli, Ralam, Nagnidhura, Rajrambha and Heeramani bugyals for the precious harvest, while villagers of Darma, Byas and Chaudas under Dharchula tehsil trek to Chipala and Kedar bugyals,” said a resident, Anand Gusai. “Around 5,000 people from Munsyari and Dharchula, mostly in the age group 14-50 years, are engaged in this activity between May and June,” said Narendra Singh, research fellow at GB Pant National Environment Institute, Almora. Gusai added, “Most harvesters migrate from their villages to the bugyals in mid- April, often with family, rations and tents. Others follow by mid-May, after snow has melted.” Kedar Singh, van panchayat sarpanch of Lawan village, said that unlike previous years, when villagers approached the van panchayat for permits to harvest Keeda Jadi, no one yet had sought the permit this year. He added, “Most of these people spend winters in their second homes in the lower valleys. This year, their return to their high altitude villages has been delayed by the Covid-19 lockdown, so they haven’t managed to collect the two months’ ration they need to migrate to the bugyals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harvest-trade-in-elusive-high-altitude-caterpillar-fungus-collapses-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75542403.cms||Prem Punetha
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||Woman commits suicide, kin alleges murder||Roorkee: A 50-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging self from a ceiling hook at her home in a village near Roorkee late on Sunday night. It is reported that a dispute in family was the reason behind her extreme step. However, the brother of deceased claimed that her in-laws have killed her. Police have sent her body for post-mortem. According to Jhabreda police, they got the information of the death at about 3 am on Monday. However, when police reached the venue, the body of the victim was laying on a cot. The victim was identified as Raisa Halwai, a Paadli Ganda village resident. She was a mother to five children. Meanwhile, her brother Azad Ali told the police that her in-laws killed her sister as they used to torture her for money. "The venue and circumstances of crime are under suspicion so we have sent body for postmortem. Further action will be taken on the basis of the autopsy report," said sub-inspector Sunil Ramola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-commits-suicide-kin-alleges-murder/articleshow/75542404.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 5, 2020||India||SC reserves order on 4G Net in J&K||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its verdict on PILs by private school associations, journalists and lawyers seeking 4G internet in Jammu and Kashmir to help doctors treat patients, children to access education and businesses to function. Attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai that since scrapping of J&K’s special status and its bifurcation into two Union Territories in August last year, the government had slowly eased restrictions and now provided 2G internet services. When the bench asked how long the restrictions would last, the law officers said it would be decided by the review committee. The SC wanted to know whether the committee was reviewing the need for relaxing restrictions every week as directed by the court in Anuradha Bhasin judgment. The law officers cited recent terrorist incidents, including Saturday’s encounter in which five security personnel including a colonel and a major were killed, to justify the restriction on faster internet service. They said restrictions were needed for national security reasons. Pakistan-backed terror groups had been taking advantage of faster internet services in the Valley and 2G services on mobile phones had impeded their nefarious activities, they added. Both assured the court that treatment of patients during the lockdown was not affected by slow internet speed. However, senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and Salman Khurshid said non-provision of 4G services had impeded doctors from getting information about latest treatment procedures, prevented students from carrying on with their studies through online classes and severely impacted business through the internet. Both sides cited the SC's January 10 judgment in Anuradha Bhasin case in which the court had ruled on right to carry on business through internet and had directed the government to review the restrictions every week. The bench asked whether the government was adhering to the direction of reviewing restrictions every week. The petitioners said the government could provide 4G services for some time and examine whether it was aiding common people or militants. The attorney general said 4G services would enable locals to record troop movements and upload it on the internet which would give Pakistan-based terrorist organisations details about such movement. "It is about protection of lives of people, not just patients. National security is paramount. Those tasked with protecting national security must be the sole judges whether or not to relax the restrictions. Political stability, social stability, territorial integrity are all part of national security. Matters of policy cannot be interfered with by the court. It must be left to the government," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-reserves-order-on-4g-net-in-jk/articleshow/75544821.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 5, 2020||Meerut||24 traders, their contacts test positive in Meerut’s wholesale Naveen vegetable market||Meerut: Of the 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Meerut, maximum 24 are from its Naveen Sabzi Mandi area, a revelation which has set the alarm bells ringing in the city. Like Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, Meerut’s Naveen wholesale market is a nerve centre of the city from where vegetables and fruits are procured in large quantity. Thousands of traders put up makeshift stalls of vegetables and fruits here, which cater to most of the district. It supplies vegetables to the retailers and small shop owners, who go door-to-door to sell them. Now, after the rise in cases in the last two days, the mandi has been shut for two days. According to a report, as many as 24 traders and their contacts were found infected with novel coronavirus. Doctors have now expressed serious concern and have suggested decentralisation of the wholesale vegetable market to check the further spread. “This is alarming because the numbers have suddenly risen in the vegetable market. We are conducting sampling constantly and have sent fresh samples for testing from the area on Monday too,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer. Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “We have shut the mandi for two days. After that, it will function from a different location, which will be most likely Ramlila Maidan. A permit has been issued to 1,100 vegetable sellers and only they will be allowed to enter the mandi after it becomes functional after two days. The mandi will have two separate gates for entry and exit, and a case will be filed against anyone who is found flouting social distancing norms." Expressing concerns about the rising cases in Sabzi Mandi, doctors have said that residents should exercise caution while purchasing vegetables. “One should take the vegetables in a bucket or a bag with zero contact with the seller. Then keep it in warm water with disinfectants like vinegar for at least an hour. After this, vegetables should be washed thoroughly at least twice before consumption,” said Dr Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/24-traders-their-contacts-test-positive-in-meeruts-wholesale-naveen-vegetable-market/articleshow/75542410.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||‘Dead mouse in ration kits’, BJP workers, locals scuffle; 3 booked||Haridwar: Local residents allegedly clashed with BJP workers and party councillor from Ambedkar Nagar Colony Nepal Singh after ration kits distributed by the party in the area reportedly contained a dead mouse and substandard food. On Monday, Jwalapur police registered a case against three local residents after BJP workers complained that the councillor was manhandled. The residents were booked under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Station house officer (Jwalapur) Yogesh Dev told TOI that they were investigating whether the clash took place but would not look into whether the kits were substandard since it was an individual effort and not part of any government scheme. In the past few weeks, BJP workers have distributed ration kits in several city areas. On Sunday, they gave out kits in Ambedkar Colony, part of the constituency of BJP MLA Madan Kaushik. A little while after the distribution, several residents came back and started throwing their kits on the road, claiming the food was substandard and that they had found a dead mouse in one of the kits. Local resident Naveen Kumar told TOI, “The food items were substandard and one person even found a dead mouse in his kit. When people complained they were humiliated by party workers.” But Naresh Sharma, one of the party workers involved in distribution and former president of BJP’s youth wing (Haridwar) said that thousands of kits had been distributed to the poor without any complaints. “These are false allegations. Angry residents even manhandled our local councillor when he came to listen to their grievances. We suspect the Congress might have instigated people.” Congress has denied any involvement in the incident. Congress worker Ashok Sharma said, “This is not the first complaint against these ration kits. Earlier, people from Brahmpuri Colony had also refused to take ration kits from BJP workers.” Lat week, residents of Brahmpuri Colony had left out their kits on the road, alleging that food was substandard and was being distributed only among voters in the area and not migrant workers who were more in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dead-mouse-in-ration-kits-bjp-workers-locals-scuffle-3-booked/articleshow/75542416.cms||MS Nawaz
May 5, 2020||Business||Uber and Ola start plying in only green, orange zones||Bengaluru: Ride-hailing companies — Ola and Uber — have resumed services in green and orange zones on Monday, but restricted to medical and emergency services in red zones of Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. While Ola has resumed in 100 cities, Uber said to be operating in over 25 cities. The companies have also come up with a slew of safety measures like allowing two riders in each cab, encouraging digital payments, making masks mandatory. Ola said its drivers will authenticate themselves by taking a selfie before each ride to ensure they are wearing a mask and turning air conditioning will remain off. “Right now, there is more supply of vehicles as demand remains low,” said an executive at one of these companies. Two-wheeler rental startups like Bounce and Vogo have also been tying up with corporates for longer-term rentals for employees as public transportation remains suspended. Bike taxi startup Rapido is also focusing on delivering essentials as demand for rides stays muted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-and-ola-start-plying-in-only-green-orange-zones/articleshow/75543456.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Students anxious about undeclared exam schedule||PUNE: Students who left for their homes before the lockdown was imposed are worried that the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will make a sudden examination announcement, leaving them with no time to prepare. Several students said many of their books were left behind in their hostels as they departed for their natives in a hurry. Some students said those living in villages do not have continuous and reliable online access and, therefore, online study material or examinations will not be feasible for them. Kamalakar Shete, a second-year student of commerce stream at SPPU, said, “The syllabus is not complete and assignments are yet to be submitted. There is no clarity on when or how examinations will be held. All this is a source of stress for students. Announcing examination dates will not help. We need time to prepare as well. How is that possible without a library and other facilities made available for at least a month in advance?” Students who have left the city and travelled to other countries are also worried. Tabrez Akhter, another student from SPPU, returned to Oman before the lockdown. He is clueless as to what he will do if the varsity announces a pen-and-paper examination soon. “The Covid-19 cases are high here and there is no clarity on when airports will open. Travelling back to Pune seems impossible. I am getting paranoid because I don’t know how the university plans to conduct examinations,” Akhter said. Another student, who is back at his home in Junnar, said, “In our college, only half of the syllabus was completed until the time most of us left. They tried finishing the rest with online classes but the place I live in has very poor internet connectivity and reach. Engineering is a practical subject. With half the practicals remaining, how will we understand the concept and appear for the exams?” The University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued guidelines, including intermediate semester students to be graded based on internal assessment of the present and previous semester. However, in the states where Covid-19 situation has normalized, exams will be held in the month of July. The UGC has told the universities to chart a plan of action. “Meetings are going on with higher authorities. The state government will come out with a uniform policy soon,” an SPPU official said. Dhanraj Mane, director of higher education department, said, “The decision is being taken and the state’s policy for the examination will be declared in 2-4 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-anxious-about-undeclared-exam-schedule/articleshow/75544177.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 5, 2020||Pune||Residents join hands against illegal vendors||Pune: The residents of the Right Bhusari Colony on Monday were forced to ask for help from the police after the buyers and vendors in the area refused to maintain social distancing. The Kothrud police had to employ force when the people buying vegetables from the vendors in the area refused to pay any heed to the repeated requests of the residents. A vehicle from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s anti-encroachment squad was also summoned to the spot. Rahul Jadhav, a resident of the Right Bhusari Colony, told TOI, “The vendors from different parts of the city come to the Right Bhusari Colony every day. They have converted all the lanes into vegetable markets,” he said. “People, too, gather for buying vegetables without maintaining social distancing,” Jadhav added. The residents, along with the local corporators, visited the Bhusari Colony on Monday morning and requested the buyers and vendors to maintain social distancing. “We appealed to the people by using public address system,” PMC corporator Kiran Dagade told TOI. “Thankfully, there are very less positive cases in Kothrud. We have to maintain the trend,” Dagade said. Sub-inspector Santosh Patil of Kothrud police said, “I request the vendors and the people to follow social distancing every morning. However, as soon as I leave the spot, everything goes back to being chaos,” Patil said. He said the police had to resort to using force on Monday as the people refused to listen to their request. Action against morning walkers Kothrud police on Monday took action against around 21 morning walkers. Most of them were senior citizens. A resident of the Bhusari Colony told TOI that on Sunday night, a senior citizen was taking a walk in the area. “I asked him to go home, but he did not listen. On Monday morning, the same person was caught by the police while taking a walk. He showed me the notice given to him by the police,” the resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-join-hands-against-illegal-vendors/articleshow/75544172.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 5, 2020||Meerut||Follow social distancing & don’t bring family along: Sabzi Mandi traders to locals||Meerut: On a day when 24 of their own tested positive for Covid-19, wholesale traders and their representative at city’s Naveen Sabzi Mandi on Monday appealed to the residents to respect social distancing while coming to the vegetable market. The mandi has been shut for two days and is likely to be shifted to another spot.“We are under constant risk because we do not know from where people are coming. We also don’t know if they are affected or not. The city residents should understand that even if they come to the mandi to purchase essentials, they should come alone, without family members,” said Ashok Pradhan, president, Naveen Sabzi Mandi.Naveen Gupta, president of Meerut Vyapaar Sangh, said, “Initially the crowd at the Sabzi Mandi was large. However, now that there is a panic, the footfall has reduced. Those who used to visit the mandi for small quantity vegetables have stopped coming. People are following social distancing there. However, the administration needs to come up with an alternative to deal with the problem or else it will be extremely difficult to control the spread.”Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut’s district surveillance officer expressed concern.“There are a lot of people involved in selling vegetables and fruits. Right from those who grow them at the farm, to those involved in packing them and sending them further to the mandis and eventually those who take them to the customers. This is why sabzi mandis are at a risk almost everywhere and can become a major hotspots if not controlled timely,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/follow-social-distancing-dont-bring-family-along-sabzi-mandi-traders-to-locals/articleshow/75542413.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||DEPD issues letter to AIIMS Rishikesh on order relating to divyang employees||Dehradun: The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPD), on Monday asked the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh to withdraw the order relating to compulsory retirement for employees having physical and mental disabilities, issued by him last month. The move by DEPD, a wing in the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment comes after the order was opposed by employees with disability. The order, issued on April 9, read, “Any employee (including faculty), if unable to perform duties, due to physical or mental disability, which interferes with efficient discharge of duties, will be compulsorily retired, as per CCS (Central Staffing Scheme) rules”. However, after objections from both internal and external faculties and students, AIIMS Rishikesh revised the order on May 2 maintaining that “staff belonging to physicallyhandicapped category” (divyang) are not included under the previous order as they are governed by different rules laid down by the Government of India.”“Despite progressive legislation to empower people with disabilities, AIIMS Rishikesh, an autonomous institution of repute, is issuing an order which is not only unfair and discriminatory but also unlawful and totally insensitive,” said Dr Satendra Singh, Founder of “Doctors with Disabilities: Agents of Change”. He had earlier approached the health ministry to intervene in the matter. DEPD director KVS Rao, in a letter sent to AIIMS Rishikesh on Monday, said that “the order dated April 9, 2020 is not in the lines of provision of right of person with disability (RPwD Act, 2016)” requesting the institution to “withdraw the order and issue a revised order, if necessary, keeping in view the provision of RPwD Act, 2016.” The letter has also been copied to Secretary of ministry of health and family welfare, with a request to take up the matter with AIIMS, Rishikesh. Meanwhile, AIIMS Rishikesh director Dr Ravi Kant issued a clarification again on Monday stating, “In view of the health emergency arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, doctors including faculty and paramedics are expected to shoulder additional responsibilities to give patient best care while making sure that they do not carry virus back home. Accordingly, employees, including faculty at AIIMS Rishikesh have been assigned duties for cause of nationwide struggle against pandemic. However, it is observed that some employees are refusing to do coronavirus-related duty on some pretext and are resorting to trivial excuses. It is therefore brought to the notice of all that any employee (including faculty) if unable to perform or fail to attend duty assigned to him or her shall be proceeded against as per CCS rule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/depd-issues-letter-to-aiims-rishikesh-on-order-relating-to-divyang-employees/articleshow/75542411.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s case count zooms by 1,567; govt says half of them added from earlier||MUMBAI: Maharashtra’s count of Covid-19 cases went up y 1,567 to reach 14,541 on Monday. However, the state government recorded 771 cases for a 24-hour period and said that the rest—796—were cases which had been tested over the past one week but confirmed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) only on Monday. Senior health department officials said the 796 cases were not being added to the single-day count for Monday as they had been verified and uploaded by ICMR on its portal on Monday but were older. “They have been added to the state’s total,” said state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate. As Maharashtra inched steadily towards the 15,000 mark, officials said the 796 ‘older’ cases were from districts other than Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The state recorded 35 deaths on Monday, its second highest single-day toll; the highest deaths recorded so far were 36 on May 2. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state are now 583. Mumbai continued to contribute a majority of the cases, adding 510 to the tally of 771. It also reported 18 deaths. Its total case tally is now 9,310, with 361 deaths. The case fatality rate in the state and the city was gradually showing a marginal dip. A corporator from Worli, one of the hotspots in the city, tested positive over the weekend. The civic body claimed that beds dedicated to coronavirus patients in the city’s major hospitals, including BYL Nair in Mumbai Central, KEM in Parel, St George in CST and SevenHills in Marol, will be increased from the existing strength of 3,000 to 4,750 over the next few days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the bed capacity at Nair Hospital, that has been made a dedicated Covid-19 facility, will be doubled over the next seven days. “From 450, we are scaling it up to 900 beds,” he said. Kakani added that 30 ICU beds have been added at NSCI, Worli, while KEM will have another 70 ICU beds. “We are building a facility of 300 beds with oxygen support at Mahalaxmi race course, which will function as a quarantine facility. It will also be equipped with five ventilators,” he said. Based on the state’s tally as on Monday morning, state government officials gave a presentation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and said Maharashtra has 31% of the total cases in the country and has recorded nearly 40% of the deaths across India. The rate of discharge in the state was also going up and the time taken for cases to double was increasing too, they said. The rate of discharge for the state as on Monday was 19%, and the doubling rate has increased to 9.3 days, while the national doubling rate was 11.3 days. The case fatality rate of the state was 4.22%, which is higher than the national average of 3.23%. On Monday, 350 patients were discharged and the total number of patients discharged so far is 2,465. However, even as the case fatality rate had slowly reduced, there were some districts in the state where the CFR was worryingly high. The CFR of Jalgaon rural was 24%. Of the total 46 cases, Jalgaon rural reported 11 deaths. Also, the Amravati municipal corporation area had a CFR of 15.7% -- 57 cases reported in all and 9 deaths. Of the deaths reported in the state on Monday, 7 were from Pune city, 5 from Akola Municipal Corporation, and one each from Solapur, Aurangabad, Thane and Nanded city. Additionally, one death of an Uttar Pradesh resident was recorded in Mumbai. Of the 35 deaths, 13 were of persons aged over 60 years, 19 were of those from the age-group of 40 to 59 years, and 3 were of those less than 40 years old. 23 out of the victims (70%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/states-case-count-zooms-by-1567-govt-says-half-of-them-added-from-earlier/articleshow/75544176.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 5, 2020||Meerut||Hit by lockdown, disappointed vegetable growers in west UP destroy standing crop||Meerut: Amid the ongoing lockdown, while sugarcane farmers are struggling to get their produce to mills, hopeless vegetable growers have begun destroying their crops to ready their field for the next harvest season. In the presence of Bhartiya Kisan Union leaders, farmers in a village in Shamli on Sunday, crushed their produce under a tractor. Farmers claim that with all modes of transportation stopped due to lockdown, there are no takers for the bumper harvest either in the local mandi or outside the district. Distressed farmers claim they have little hope to receive any compensation from the government. “We are helpless. The produce can’t be taken to any market and it is wasting in the field. We have now begun clearing the field for the next harvest. We don’t expect the government to compensate us and are left with no other choice than destroying it,” Kuldeep Kumar, a farmer in Aabadgarh village of Shamli district said. Like Kuldeep, several vegetable growers in the village destroyed their crops. “The initial investment we made was Rs 25,000-30,000 per bigha (.4 acre) and now there is almost no return. Currently, there is no market for our produce and we are now being forced to destroy it,” said another farmer who has a crop of cabbage standing in his 40 bighas (16 acres). BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said, “Vegetable growers and other farmers are in deep distress due to the lockdown. The government should step in and provide relief to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hit-by-lockdown-disappointed-vegetable-growers-in-west-up-destroy-standing-crop/articleshow/75542419.cms||Piyush Mishra
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Cong starts helpline for labourers||Rajkot: The state government has launched online forms for those labourers wanting to go back to their natives. As these forms are in English and supposed to be filled online, Rajkot City Congress Committee has launched a helpline to help the labourers. “We have released helpline numbers on which labourers can contact us for receiving help in filling the online forms,” said Rajkot city Congress president Ashok Dangar. Meanwhile in a press release, the Rajkot Congress has termed the role played by Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) to prevent the Covid-19 outbreak is ‘a complete failure’. “The RMC officials search for photo opportunities for an image building exercise before the chief minister and the government. They are least bothered about the ground situation. They have presented Rajkot in ‘orange zone’, while in reality, the city is in ‘red zone’,” alleged Congress in the release. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-starts-helpline-for-labourers/articleshow/75540953.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Teen shot at, held for murdering rowdy||Bengaluru: KG Halli police opened fire at a 19-year-old after he threw chilli powder and tried to stab a police constable who went to arrest him in connection with a history-sheeter’s murder near KG Halli on Monday morning. Andrew alias Sanjay, 19, of Bagaluru Layout is injured and being treated in hospital. Police said Andrew and his associates allegedly hacked Bijju alias Maya Dileep (39), who was facing several criminal cases including for murder and attempt to murder, at Bagaluru Layout around 8.30pm on Saturday. A preliminary investigation revealed that Andrew held a grudge against Bijju for murdering his paternal uncle Daniel in 2013. He was waiting to take revenge and had formed a gang. A police team headed by inspector Ajay Sarathi received credible information about the whereabouts of Andrew and his associates’ and went to Lidkar Colony to nab him on Monday morning. Andrew threw chilli powder at police and attacked head constable Srinivas Murthy. Sarathi opened fire in the air and asked Andrew to surrender. Andrew did not heed the warning, prompting Sarathi to fire at his left leg. Police also arrested Andrew’s associate Velu, 20, and are searching for other suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teen-shot-at-held-for-murdering-rowdy/articleshow/75543466.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five more trains bring back Odias||Bhubaneswar: Five more trains carrying over 5,500 people arrived at Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district and Khurda Road junction on Monday. So far, more than 8,000 migrant labourers have been brought back to the state from Gujarat, Kerala and Karnataka. Each train accommodates between 1,100 and 1,200 people. A special train that started its journey from Chikbanawara in Bengaluru reached Khurda Road on Monday. This train left Chikbanawara station at 9.26 am on Sunday with around 1200 labourers. Another special train from Ernakulam in Kerala reached Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district. “The workers were screened at the station and their hands stamped. Them, they were put on vehicles and brought to quarantine centres,” said Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. Three other special trains carrying migrant workers, which had left Surat on Sunday, arrived in Jagannathpur station. Two of these trains reached in the morning and one arrived in the evening, said a railway officer. Besides trains, hundreds of migrants from Ganjam district have already returned from Surat by bus. Western Railway sources said three more trains carrying workers had left Surat on Monday. These will reach the state on Tuesday. The Gujarat government conducted health check-up of the migrants before allowing them to travel. Sources said the railways might run more trains to Odisha. With the trains that will arrive on Tuesday, 10 Shramik Special trains have been sent to the state. Forty-three students from the district, who had been stranded in Kota in Rajasthan, arrived here on Monday after a 50-hour journey on two buses, accompanied by the mothers of three students. (With inputs from Hrusikesh Mohanty in Berhampur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-more-trains-bring-back-odias/articleshow/75540963.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CM Naveen Patnaik urges returnees to follow quarantine rules||BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday appealed to those returning from other states to strictly follow the government’s quarantine rules and warned action against the perpetrators amid stray incidents of violations in some places. Stating that lakhs of people are working tirelessly, many beyond their call of duty, to combat this unprecedented situation, Naveen said people returning to Odisha must also discharge their responsibility with similar dedication and sacrifice. “People of Odisha returning from other states must undergo quarantine and strictly follow all the protocols/advisory issued by the government for the safety of themselves and their families. In case of any violation, the sarpanch shall bring the same to the notice of district administration. Stringent action will be taken against the violators,” a government statement, attributing it to Naveen, said. The chief minister’s advice comes a day after around 100 people tried to jump quarantine in Ganjam district and seven others in Bhadrak violated the social distancing norms. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also urged the returnees to cooperate with the state government rules. “I appeal to all the returnees with folded hands. You must obey the government guidelines in your own interest and in the interest of your families and society. We must have patience. You have already reached home. Things will be fine,” he said. DGP Abhay warned returnees that hospitality should not be mistaken for leniency towards negligent conduct. “Any conduct endangering the safety of others will be strongly dealt with as per law. I appeal to all returnees to follow the laid down norms while in quarantine,” the DGP tweeted. In Bhadrak, police registered a case against seven persons for violating social distancing norms in the quarantine centre at Bhatapara and uploading a video on Tik Tok. “We promptly registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by Swarnamaye Jena, sarpanch of Bhatpada gram panchayat. The accused have been booked under appropriate sections of IPC and disaster management Act,” SP (Bhadrak) Rajesh Pandit said. Keeping the influx of migrants in mind, the government has made arrangements for 9,536 temporary medical centres in 6798 gram panchayats with a total number of 3.30 lakh beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cm-urges-returnees-to-follow-quarantine-rules/articleshow/75540982.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 5, 2020||Meerut||Man falls to death as storm hits Bijnor, Amroha; mango crop damaged||Bijnor: A storm on Sunday night that ripped through Bijnor and Amroha left a trail of destruction, uprooting trees and damaging mango crop in the region. In Amroha, one person was killed. According to reports here, a retired principal, Rajendra Singh, lost his life in Gajraula, Amroha, after he was knocked off the roof of his house. He had climbed on to the roof to shoo away monkeys, when it started raining heavily and he lost his footing, falling on the ground. Neighbours found the body on Monday morning, when they broke open his door and went inside.The man lived alone while his family residence in Delhi. Bijnor experienced a thunderstorm accompanied by high-speed winds over 70-km per hour on Sunday night. Around 8mm rain was recorded in the district. At many places, trees were uprooted. Several rural areas had no power the entire night. According to superintendent engineer, Power Corporation, Bijnor, CP Singh, the strorm disrupted power supply in different pockets of rural areas. Lines were being repaired on Monday. Supply would be restored soon,he added. The mango crop suffered about 10% damage due to the storm. Mango groves are spread over 13,310 hectares in Bijnor district, including in Mandawar, Kiratpur, Bijnor and Najibabad. According to a mango cultivator of Gajraula, Shiv village, Mohammad Akram, this year the crop was lean. The storm caused immense loss to mango growers. When TOI contacted district horticulture officer Narpal Malik, he said, “Mango farmers suffered losses due to the storm. We are accessing the losses. It is very hard to tell the exact figure right away. The picture will be clear in a few days. He estimated that the mango crop loss could be over 10%. Bijnor produces over 1.5 lakh tonnes of mangoes every year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-falls-to-death-as-storm-hits-bijnor-amroha-mango-crop-damaged/articleshow/75542422.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Dig up roads,prevent entry ofvehicles from UP,says Raj min Garg||Jaipur: Rajasthan minister on Monday asked the officials to hire earthmovers and dig up roads to stop the illegal entry of people and vehicles coming from Uttar Pradesh. “No person should enter Bharatpur district from UP other than on medical grounds. Use earthmovers to dig pits and prevent the movement of vehicles from UP side,” said minister of state for medical and health Subhash Garg, who hails from Bharatpur, according to an official release by the government. “As per guidelines no vehicle could ply without passes,” Garg said. Since Bharatpur borders UP, many people from UP villages enter Bharatpur using kaccha roads illegally by motor cycles which is not possible for the police to check. He said some of them are also into illegal activities such as bootlegging. “So I directed the administration to dig up roads so that no one from that side can enter Rajasthan,” said the minister. He blamed the spurt in Covid cases in Bharatpur to the illegal entry of people from Agra. Garg instructed officals to install CCTV cameras at entry points between UP and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dig-up-roadsprevent-entry-ofvehicles-from-upsays-raj-min-garg/articleshow/75544184.cms||Joychen Joseph
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops seize Rs 30 lakh worth tobacco products||HYDERABAD: The Malkajgiri Special Operations Team officials arrested, T Veerender, a grocery store owner from Sainikpuri for selling gutka, illegally imported foreign cigarettes, tobacco products and fire crackers. Police officials seized Rs 30 lakh worth banned gutka and other tobacco items and a car from his possession. “He has been purchasing gutka and foreign cigarettes from traders in Begum Bazar and Bidar. Even during lockdown he has been transporting gutka to traders in Yapral, Neredment and Kushaiguda in his car by placing food grain bags above the tobacco products,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-seize-rs-30l-worth-tobacco-products/articleshow/75543471.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||Iconic B’wood stills spread awareness about forest fires in Rudraprayag||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand forest department has now turned to Bollywood to raise awareness against forest fires, which has already claimed two lives in the hill state this year. The department has issued posters featuring iconic scenes and dialogues from Bollywood blockbusters to drive home the message. In one such poster, Gabbar Singh from “Sholay” asks sidekick Sambha about the consequences of starting a forest fire. The answer is written below in red, “a fine of Rs 5,000 and two years of imprisonment”. In another, Vidya Balan’s character from “The Dirty Picture” repeats “carelessness” three times when asked what are the three reasons for forest fires. The initiative has been started as an experiment in Rudraprayag. DFO Rudraprayag Vaibhav Singh said that over 1,000 posters have been printed already and put up all over Rudraprayag town. “The aim is to sensitise people to not do anything that might trigger a forest fire. The posters contain information on emergency helplines, on which people can call if they spot a wildfire. Above all, the posters are expected to generate a sense of ownership of the forest in the community since we are losing our green cover to lifestyle change and urbanisation,” Singh said. This year, Uttarakhand has recorded 18 incidents of forest fires so far. Two women have lost their lives and over 11 hectares of forest cover has been gutted. Officials said that most parts of Uttarakhand now fall under the green zone (for Covid-19), which allows people to move around more thereby causing fire risk. According to data available with the Forest Suvey of India, 90 per cent of forest fires are man-made. Last year, Uttarakhand lost 44,554 hectares of the forest area to fires. It has incurred a loss of Rs 185 lakh due to wildfires since 2000, the year the state was carved out of Uttar Pradesh. In the hill state, 0.17% of forest area falls under “extremely fire prone”, 1.60% under “very highly fire prone”, 9.32% under “highly fire prone”, 21.66% under “moderately fire prone” and 67.25% under “less fire prone”. Speaking about the poster initiative, nodal officer (forest fire) Uttarakhnd forest department BK Gangte said, “It is praiseworthy to engage a community in combating wildfires. It is praiseworthy to engage a community in combating wildfires. If the project proves to be successful in Rudraprayag, we will implement it in rest of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iconic-bwood-stills-spread-awareness-about-forest-fires-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/75542418.cms||Shivani Azad
May 5, 2020||Vadodara||MSU professor now Kutch varsity VC||VADODARA: Dean of M S University’s Faculty of Management Studies (FMS) Prof Jayrajsinh Jadeja has been appointed as the vice-chancellor (VC) of Krantiguru Shyamji Krishna Verma Kachchh University (KSKVKU), Bhuj on Monday. The state education department issued a notification regarding his appointment. Jadeja, 62, teaches marketing and is currently serving as the head and dean of FMS. A PhD in commerce from Sardar Patel University, Jadeja has 35 years of academic experience. Going by his bio-data, he has published more than 50 research papers in both national as well as international journals, one book and four research projects to his credit. Under his guidance, eight PhD scholars received their doctorates, while three are still researching. Jadeja has guided more than 500 dissertation works of MBA students. He has joined the list of teachers from the university who have been appointed as VCs in different universities. Earlier, late professor Bharat Chattoo had served as VC of Shri Mata Vaishnodevi University, Jammu & Kashmir, while Prof R G Kothari had served as VC of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University, Surat. Prof Shirish Kulkarni, a teacher with Faculty of Commerce, is serving as the VC of Sardar Patel University, Vallabh Vidyanagar, while Prof Parimal Vyas, who also belongs to Faculty of Commerce, is serving as VC at MSU, Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-professor-now-kutch-varsity-vc/articleshow/75541686.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||City crosses 1k Covid casesas state breaches 3k mark||Jaipur: The state reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day, with 175 persons testing positive for the virus on Monday. Earlier on April 21, the state had reported 159 cases in a single day. With record new cases, Jaipur crossed 1,000 positive cases, while the state breached the 3,000 mark on the day. Six people also died in the state, taking the toll to 77. While four died in Jaipur, two deaths were reported from Jodhpur. Meanwhile, state cooperatives minister Uday Lal Anjana put himself in home quarantine following an avalanche of virus cases reported from his constituency Nimbahera in Chittorgarh. In a video released by him, the minister said he was shocked after his town was severely hit by coronavirus. He claimed that he had came in contact with those who tested positive for the virus 19 in the last few days while discharging his duties as an MLA. In Jodhpur alone, 85 persons were diagnosed with coronavirus. These cases were reported from Nagori Gate, Pratap Nagar, Udai Mandir area. “We are doing extensive sampling in the area. Daily, we are taking samples of 1,100 to 1,400 people from affected areas. We have sent the samples for testing to Jaipur’s private medical college to clear the backlog as well as to medical college, DMRC and AIIMS in Jodhpur,” said a senior health department official in Jodhpur. A 58-year-old man, resident of Topkhane Ka Rasta in Chandpole who was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 2, died on the next day after his admission. He had no comorbidity, health department officials said. A 75-year-old man, resident of Khazane Walon Ka Rasta who was rushed to SMS hospital on Sunday, also died in the city. Health department officials said that the patient was brought dead. His samples were taken after his death and he tested positive on Sunday evening. A 70-year-old man, resident of Tikki Walon Ka Rasta in Kishanpole Bazaar who was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 1, died on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-crosses-1k-covid-casesas-state-breaches-3k-mark/articleshow/75544181.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Cuttack||CM Naveen Patnaik urges returnees to follow quarantine rules||BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday appealed to those returning from other states to strictly follow the government’s quarantine rules and warned action against the perpetrators amid stray incidents of violations in some places. Stating that lakhs of people are working tirelessly, many beyond their call of duty, to combat this unprecedented situation, Naveen said people returning to Odisha must also discharge their responsibility with similar dedication and sacrifice. “People of Odisha returning from other states must undergo quarantine and strictly follow all the protocols/advisory issued by the government for the safety of themselves and their families. In case of any violation, the sarpanch shall bring the same to the notice of district administration. Stringent action will be taken against the violators,” a government statement, attributing it to Naveen, said. The chief minister’s advice comes a day after around 100 people tried to jump quarantine in Ganjam district and seven others in Bhadrak violated the social distancing norms. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also urged the returnees to cooperate with the state government rules. “I appeal to all the returnees with folded hands. You must obey the government guidelines in your own interest and in the interest of your families and society. We must have patience. You have already reached home. Things will be fine,” he said. DGP Abhay warned returnees that hospitality should not be mistaken for leniency towards negligent conduct. “Any conduct endangering the safety of others will be strongly dealt with as per law. I appeal to all returnees to follow the laid down norms while in quarantine,” the DGP tweeted. In Bhadrak, police registered a case against seven persons for violating social distancing norms in the quarantine centre at Bhatapara and uploading a video on Tik Tok. “We promptly registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by Swarnamaye Jena, sarpanch of Bhatpada gram panchayat. The accused have been booked under appropriate sections of IPC and disaster management Act,” SP (Bhadrak) Rajesh Pandit said. Keeping the influx of migrants in mind, the government has made arrangements for 9,536 temporary medical centres in 6798 gram panchayats with a total number of 3.30 lakh beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cm-urges-returnees-to-follow-quarantine-rules/articleshow/75551336.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Driver holds family ‘hostage’ in row over fare||SAMBALPUR: A man, who was on Sunday discharged from Vimsar, his wife and five-year-old son were allegedly held hostage by a driver due to a row over fare. They were later rescued by locals but the driver is absconding. Sarbeswar Majhi (30), who was admitted to the orthopaedics ward, hired a vehicle to return to Raj Khariar in Nuapada district. They struck a deal with the driver for Rs 5200 and gave Rs 1600 advance. Once they reached Raj Khariar, Majhi asked the driver to wait while he got the rest of the amount. After waiting for some time, the enraged driver allegedly forced the family to get in and then drove off to Burla. There he kept them locked inside the vehicle. He returned later and took them to another place where they were seen by locals who rescued them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/driver-holds-family-hostage-in-row-over-fare/articleshow/75540973.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 5, 2020||Dehradun||One killed, 3 injured as car falls into 500-meter-deep gorge||DEHRADUN: One person was killed and three of his family members were seriously injured after the car they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge near Silvada on Tyuni-Chakrata Road in Vikasnagar police station area on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Shyamlal, 50, who was working in Vikasnagar tehsil office, while the injured include Sujata, 28, Jintendra Semwal, 32, and Priyanjali, 4. Police said that Shyamlal along with his family was on the way to Vikasnagar from Tyuni when the person behind the wheels lost control over the vehicle which resulted in the accident. A senior official said, "The car skidded off the road and plunged into the 500-meter-deep gorge. Shyamlal died on the spot while the three injured people were rescued and taken to hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-3-injured-as-car-falls-into-500-m-deep-gorge/articleshow/75542420.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: One booked for outraging woman’s modesty||PUNE: The Sinhagad Road police on Sunday booked a man on the charge of harassing and outraging the modesty of a woman. Police said the complainant stays in the same housing society as the suspect. “The man used to flash torchlight from his cellphone at the woman whenever she was in her balcony. The complainant, who works for a private company, said the man was staring at her for the past 10-12 days,” an officer from the Sinhagad Road police said. The suspect has been at home since the lockdown was enforced in the city due to the spread of coronavirus. “On Sunday, the woman wanted to buy something from a neighbourhood shop. She left her house and when she reached the ground floor of her building, the suspect came down rushing and grabbed her hand,” the officer said. “He then told the woman that he was following her for the past few days and flashed the cellphone light at her in a bid to grab her attention,” the officer added. The officer said the woman felt uncomfortable with the man’s unsolicited advances and approached the police station to lodge an official complaint against the man. “Our investigation is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-booked-for-outraging-womans-modesty/articleshow/75544196.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Liquor shops open, chaos reigns across the Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Long queues and chaotic scenes were witnessed at most liquor shops in several cities of the state, leading to violation of social distancing norms and forcing the excise department to order closure of shops within two hours of opening on Monday. Authorities are now planning to strengthen the system by deploying the excise police force and creating barricades while introducing a token system to diffuse the crowd. Department officials said the shops will open from Tuesday. People had gathered in large numbers at shops as early as two hours before the shops were to open at 10am. As soon as the shops opened, all the arrangements for social distancing and hygiene went for a toss, with tipplers jostling with each other to lay their hands on the bottle they have been deprived of for the past 40 days. Recognising the disorder being created by unruly crowds and the risks thereof, the excise department ordered the closure of shops immediately, leaving many customers in the lurch. Even after the shops had shut down, people were seen loitering around shops. Shops in many towns, villages functioned without any hiccupsBarring major cities in the state such as Jaipur, Udaipur and Jodhpur, shops in many towns and villages functioned without any hiccups, following social distancing guidelines. “Customers visited the shops wearing masks, maintaining the one metre distance as per the guidelines. We had also deployed excise police force to offer customers sanitisers and maintain order,” said state excise commissioner Bishnu Charan Mallick. Another senior official of the department said that they have asked shop owners to create barricades and introduce a token system, which would help in reducing the crowds waiting at shops. “We will deploy more police personnel in urban areas where most of the overcrowding was witnessed. We had expected higher footfall at outlets, but the long queues were still a bit surprising,” said the official. On Sunday, the excise department issued a 15-point guideline, detailing social distancing measures and other precautions to be taken. The department had also asked liquor shops to collect mobile phone numbers of buyers for future action if needed. Shop owners said that country liquor outlets could not be opened because of the lack of supply and increasing demand. Meanwhile, former chairman of Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission Justice Prakash Tatia questioned the government’s decision to allow shops to open in red zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-shops-open-chaos-reigns-across-the-state/articleshow/75544198.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Rahatni societies to the aid of housekeeping staff||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: As many as eight housing societies of Rahatni have given an additional salary, vegetables, fruit and other facilities to 450 of its housekeeping, security and other staffers. The societies — Park Turqoise, Park Ivory, Topaz Park, Sapphire Park, Ruby Park, Emerald Park, Park Titanium and Diamond Park — are in Park Street area of Rahatni. There are nearly 3,000 flats in these societies. Dinesh Jagtap, chairman, Park Turquoise housing society, said, “Most of our staffers are migrants and away from home. We held a meeting to assure them that all their needs will be addressed if they continue to stay here. We are providing them with two meals daily with the help of a restaurant owner. We gave an additional salary of Rs1,000 each to 28 security guards.” He said the society had collected three tonnes of fruit and vegetables with the help of a start-up and distributed it among their staffers. Manish Bansal, committee member of Park Titanium said, “We have formed an anti-Covid-19 task force for the Park Street area. There are around 25 volunteers who home-deliver medicines, fruit and vegetables to the senior citizens.” “We have kept hand sanitizer at the entry and exit of each building. The common areas are sanitised thrice a week,” Bansal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rahatni-societies-to-the-aid-of-housekeeping-staff/articleshow/75544188.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Migrants forced to beg, borrow to buy return tickets home||Bhubaneswar: Migrant labourers keen to return to Odisha from Gujarat, Kerala and Karnataka are forced to shell out huge sums. Those travelling in buses from Surat to quarantine centres in Odisha have to pay between Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,500 for a ticket. Labourers returning home in Shramik special trains have to pay between Rs 500 and Rs 800 per person. Judhistir Behera, 38, from Tamasheragada village in Ganjam’s Jagannathprasad block paid Rs 12,600 for three seats in the bus. “I work in the textile industry in Surat and earn Rs 18,000 per month. My wife and younger brother live with me. We spent all the savings between March 22 and April 26. To buy the tickets, I had to mortgage my wife’s gold ring,” said Judhistir, who arrived on May 1. Usharani Pradhan, 54, who is staying at Pandesara in Surat, said she along with her husband and two sons are desperately trying to return to their village, Brahmagiri, in Puri district. “I borrowed Rs 5,000 from a relative to buy the tickets. I waited at the station on Sunday to get tickets but failed. My husband is trying to get the tickets by Tuesday,” she added. She said her two sons, who work in the textile industry, do not have work since March 22. “Whatever money was left with us, we bought ration and food. We have to return home to survive,” she added. Harihar Pradhan from Puri district also wants to return to Odisha with his family from Surat. “I have given Rs 4,000 to a person for four tickets in Shramik Special trains. Though some people say that the ticket price is Rs 710 from Surat to Jagannathpur in Ganjam district, I don’t know why the person took this amount,” he added. Odisha Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik on Monday said migrant workers are selling off their valuables to buy tickets. “I urge chief minister Naveen Patnaik and his government to share their details so that Odisha Congress can help them buy tickets,” he added. Former Union minister Srikant Kumar Jena also requested the government to bear the ticket cost. The Centre clarified that 85% of the transportation cost is borne by the railways, while states have to bear the rest. “We have not received any communication to bear the ticket cost of the migrant labourers so far,” said transport minister Padmanav Behera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/migrants-forced-to-beg-borrow-to-buy-return-tickets-home/articleshow/75540991.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||20-year-old kills self after fight with mom in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old vegetable vendor hanged herself at home following an argument with her mother at LB Nagar on Monday. The deceased was identified as J Danamma, from NTR Nagar. At around 4 am, Danamma got into an argument with her mother over a petty issue at the market in NTR Nagar. “After the argument, Danamma returned home and hang herself to the iron pipe of the roof with her stole. There was no suicide note,” LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy said. A case was booked under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-yr-old-kills-self-after-fight-with-mom/articleshow/75543481.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rush at shops will be over soon: Andhra Pradesh minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: M Srinivasa Rao, minister for tourism, said on Monday that the rush at liquor outlets would be cleared in a couple of days. The minister attributed the scramble for liquor to the lockdown during the last 43. He said the rush would be over after a couple of days. He said the district administration has distributed 30 lakh masks to the public as part of safety measures against Covid-19. To provide employment to farm labourers and other artisans, the government has relaxed the lockdown norms, said the minister. The minister held a task force meeting with all departments and reviewed the situation on Monday. He said small shops can be opened and not the malls. There is easing of norms for construction workers and artisans but they will have to ensure social distance, said the distance. He said fertilizers and pesticides would be made available for farmers. He said the restrictions would be continued in all 15 containment zones with a radius of 500 meters of each containment zone and 1.5 km buffer zone. Rural area MDO, tahsildar and circle inspector would resolve the issues at mandal-level, the minister said. All the six positive cases reported on Sunday were primary contacts. Two cases were reported in Marripalem and four in Dandubazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rush-at-shops-will-be-over-soon-minister/articleshow/75543476.cms||Siva G
May 5, 2020||Meerut||Man with bullet injury test Covid +ve, hospital’s operating theatre, ICU, lab sealed; staff quarantined||Meerut: In what has triggered panic at a super specialty hospital here, an operating theatre, ICU and lab of the hospital were sealed and several staffers, including doctors, were quarantined after a patient who was admitted following a bullet injury tested positive for novel coronavirus. “As per the directions, the patient was shifted to LLRM Medical College after he tested Covid-19 positive. Every place where the patient was taken, including the operating theatre, ICU and pathology, were fumigated and sealed for the next 48 hours,” a release from the hospital read. The incident had happened on April 29 when one Javed with bullet injury in the chest was rushed to Anand Hospital in Meerut. A surgeon at the facility attended the victim and the patient was later shifted to the ICU. His samples tested positive on May 3, following which, the local health administration was alerted and all precautionary measures were put in place. According to the police, a stray bullet hit Javed when he was returning from a graveyard in Lisari Gate area following a burial in the evening of April 29 last month. The bullet hit him in the chest but the assailant or the motive could not be identified. Superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, “A bullet hit him (Javed) when he was returning from the graveyard. He was rushed to Anand Hospital where he later tested positive. We are yet to ascertain the identity of the attacker or the motive of the attack. As of now, we have zeroed in on a few suspects but no concrete leads have come up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-with-bullet-injury-test-covid-ve-hospitals-operating-theatre-icu-lab-sealed-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75542427.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||SC rejects last-minute plea for HC judge post||NEW DELHI: Just 30 minutes before the swearing-in of a new additional judge in Karnataka High Court, the Supreme Court on Monday took up a petition filed by a Dalit district and sessions judge who alleged the appointment breached the cardinal seniority rule. District and sessions judge of Shivamogga district RKGMM Mahaswamiji, in his petition filed through advocate Sanjay Nuli, contended that he was among the most senior district judges in the state and that the HC collegium led by the chief justice committed a grave error by ignoring seniority and recommending Padmaraj N Desai, who was junior to him, for appointment as an additional judge of the HC. A hurriedly constituted bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose heard arguments through video conferencing and dismissed the petition, saying a plea filed at the eleventh hour challenging appointment of an HC judge could not be entertained. It also said the SC seldom went into the correctness of presidential orders appointing judges to constitutional courts. Entertaining the petition would have been embarrassing for the SC itself as the final recommendation for HC judge appointments to the President is made by the SC collegium comprising the CJI and the next two senior-most judges. In his petition, Mahaswamiji said he was a direct recruit for the post of district judge in the Scheduled Caste category in 2008. He said he was continuously victimised by the HC in promotion and had been superseded even before by the HC. He cited the instance of promotion of a junior to the post of district judge in 2015 while he continued as an additional district judge. However, with the SC bench of Justices Gupta and Bose dismissing the challenge minutes before 10.30 am, the five new HC judges took oath as scheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-rejects-last-minute-plea-for-hc-judge-post/articleshow/75544827.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 5, 2020||Meerut||With 49 +ve cases, Meerut sees highest spike in 24 hours; Bijnor reports one death||MEERUT: Alarm bells started ringing in Meerut on Monday as the district reported 49 new cases in less than 24 hours, starting Sunday late night until Monday. Meanwhile, 55-year-old doctor from Bijnor died at LLRM Medical College here. Meerut’s graph of coronavirus cases is on a rise – as the city reported 25 cases late on Sunday night and 24 cases on Monday, pushing the tally of the total number of cases to 166 (including one admitted in Kanpur). This accounts for a 33% rise in two days. The cases include a two-day-old infant to a person aged 58 years old. While the health department is trying to track the contact chain of the cases, the city residents are a worried lot over the sudden spurt. Meanwhile, three cases tested positive in Saharanpur, taking the tally to 202 (including one admitted in Lucknow). In Amroha district, two more people tested positive, raising the tally to 31. Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “As many as 25 cases tested positive in Meerut late on Sunday night and 24 cases tested positive on Monday. With the sudden rise in cases – especially 24 out of the total 49 who tested positive being from Naveen Sabzi Mandi - we have stepped up sampling and are trying to trace their contact history.” According to the list which TOI accessed till 10:30 pm, out of these 49 patients, the youngest is a two-day infant and the oldest a 58-year-old man. Another infant who tested positive is a two-year-old. Dr RC Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College, said, “The 55-year-old doctor from Bijnor died at LLRM Medical College on Monday. This is the first death from Bijnor.” Dr BS Sodhi, chief medical officer, Saharanpur, said, “As many as three cases tested positive in Saharanpur on Monday. All of them have been sent to hospital.” With this, the total tally in Saharanpur reached 202 (including 12 admitted in Lucknow). Dr Megh Singh, chief medical officer, Amroha, said, “The daughter-in-law and four-year-old grand-daughter of a 70-year-old woman who died two days ago in Naugawan Sadat in Amroha have tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-49-ve-cases-meerut-sees-highest-spike-in-24-hours-bijnor-reports-one-death/articleshow/75542436.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 5, 2020||Meerut||UP: Over 1 kg smack worth Rs 1 crore seized in Shamli, 3 arrested||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Local police in Shamli district claimed to have busted a smack-smuggling racket and arrested three people from Kandhla area. Drugs worth Rs 1 crore in the international market was seized from their possession. According to police, the gang was regularly smuggling smack to different parts of the country. The accused were caught on Kairana-Kandhla road in Shamli district on Monday morning, during a vehicle checking drive conducted by a police team from Kandhla police station. The arrested include the truck’s driver Krishan Pal— resident of Panipat, Haryana—Furkan and Tasawwur, both residents of Shamli. The consignment was being brought from Bareilly and was to be delivered in Shamli. Vineet Jaiswal, superintendent of police, Shamli, said, “Police have recovered 1.02 kg smack worth Rs 1 crore and three smugglers have been arrested. There are more people are involved in this crime. Efforts are on to nab them.” A police source said, “The arrested accused were involved in the drug business for a long time. They used to bring drugs from Bareilly district and sell it in Shamli. On the basis of information obtained from the accused, the kingpin of the drug racket is a man named Arbeen, who is also a resident of the Shamli. He is yet to be arrested.” Three days ago, the local police here in Muzaffarnagar arrested two men with 40 kg of cannabis concealed in the car they were travelling in. The duo was intercepted on Meerut-Karnal highway under Budhana police station during checking in the area.  According to police, the seized cannabis was worth Rs 7 lakh in the international market. Police recovered 20 packets of the cannabis from the car’s boot and arrested Rizwan and Ram Mehar, residents of Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-1-kg-smack-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-in-shamli-3-arrested/articleshow/75542430.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Home delivery begins to prevent crowding in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the state government allowing liquor shops to open across the city, social distancing norms were thrown to the wind as people queued up at almost all shops to buy stock. However, to prevent people from crowding at liquor shops a few individuals who used to work in bars have started home delivery services. Many youngsters, who worked in privately-owned liquor shops and bars that have shut shop, have taken up the job of doorstep delivery of liquor. The business picked up pace after private shops closed down following government policy. Sources said if the ban on bars continues, it is likely to pick up pace with many people unwilling to stand in queue and wait for their turn. “I have started the home delivery service to sustain myself. The bar I worked in closed down as soon as the lockdown was imposed and I was left unemployed,” said Madhava, who worked at a bar near Siripuram. Madhava said their main customer base comes from those who were earlier regulars at bars, but are now unwilling to go to liquor shops fearing coronavirus infection.  He added that they charge 25% to 50% more than the government liquor shops depending on the brand and its demand. Higher the demand, bigger their cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/home-delivery-begins-to-prevent-crowding/articleshow/75543497.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 5, 2020||Pune||Rs 2 crore disbursed through mobile ATM van service||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The mobile ATM van service started by the Pimpri Chinchwad Co-Op Housing Societies Federation disbursed Rs2 crore in cash to the residents of hundreds of housing societies in the area. “The service was started to enable doorstep withdrawal of cash without visiting banks or ATMs during the lockdown. The aim was to help the senior citizens avoid any kind of travel in the wake of coronavirus spread,” KC Garg, the federation secretary, said. Garg said that the ATM van service was started in Wakad for three days on April 4. “After the success of this pilot service, housing societies in the various parts of the city demanded that this pilot mobile ATM van be deployed in their areas as well. The federation made arrangements for the run of the service in Punawale, Charholi and Pimple Gurav areas,” Garg said. The service is available on Saturday and Sunday, as well as on bank holidays, between 10am to 5.30pm. “We cover around eight housing societies in a day. People can withdraw a maximum of Rs5,000 using any credit/ debit cards without paying any additional service charge. A maximum of 10 people is allowed in a queue for withdrawing the money. Social distancing norms are followed strictly,” Garg added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-2cr-disbursed-through-mobile-atm-van-service/articleshow/75544201.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||TDP MLA urges CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to revoke decision||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP leader and Visakha East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu on Monday requested CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to revoke the decision to open liquor outlets. He said it would lead to law and order issue and worsen the threat of Covid-19.  While raising the issue during the task force meeting, the TDP MLA urged minister M Srinivasa Rao to ask the CM to keep the shops closed till May 17. “There is not enough stock as distilleries have not produced liquor in the past 43 days. Maintaining social distance would not be possible even if police were deployed,” said Ramakrishna Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-mla-urges-cm-to-revoke-decision/articleshow/75543484.cms||Siva G
May 5, 2020||Pune||Kothrud residents take containment measures after tenant tests positive||PUNE: The Kothrud police on Monday appealed to the residents of a housing colony to follow containment measures after a ward boy of a private hospital staying in the colony tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. About 13 people who came in contact with the ward boy have been shifted to a quarantine facility. “The ward boy is currently undergoing treatment at the hospital where he works,” Pratibha Joshi, senior inspector of the Kothrud police, told TOI. With this, the tally of Covid-19 patients in Kothrud has reached four. “The ward boy was staying on rent in the colony. Till Friday, he used to come home from work. On Saturday, he stayed back in the hospital as he was feeling feverish. On Sunday, he tested positive for Covid-19,” Joshi said. A resident of the colony said he came to know about the patient when a few residents were taken to a quarantine facility. “We have appealed to all the residents to take utmost care,” he said. Joshi said the police had already put barricades in the colony. “We are waiting for the results of the people who are in quarantine. If any of them tests positive, we will seal the entire colony,” she said, adding, “We have made an appeal to the people to maintain social distancing and not go out of their houses unnecessarily.” She said thankfully the relatives of the ward boy have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kothrud-residents-take-containment-measures-after-tenant-tests-positive/articleshow/75544204.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Dharmendra Pradhan lauds Naveen Patnaik for Centre, state coordination||BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan seem to have established a smooth working relation during the pandemic. During a Facebook live on Monday, Pradhan praised Naveen’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. “Yesterday (Sunday), I was talking to people of Odisha-origin living in six Gulf countries through videoconference. They are bowing before the preparations done by our state and our country. All are praising the steps taken by India and Odisha in this difficult time. Our commander-in-chief is our Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Odisha, Naveen babu is taking the leadership,” Pradhan said. “In our state Odisha, there is 100% coordination between the state government and the Centre in containing the spread of the virus. That apart, I am thankful to the 4.5 crore people of Odisha for their cooperation,” the Union minister added. “Compared to other states, Odisha is self-confident. This has been possible because of the cooperation of the Centre, the state government and the people here,” he added. Pradhan has been part of Naveen’s videoconferences with the chief ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu over the past one week. “Many people are suggesting and debating whether Odisha natives stranded in other states should be brought back. They are our people. Odisha’s economy prospered because of their money orders,” the Union minister said. “The process of their return has been largely smooth except a few exceptions. We must have a positive approach. We must not blame the government system. We all must extend a helping hand,” he said, adding, “A very good system is in place. We all must have patience and obey government instructions.” Naveen’s bonhomie with the Centre is in marked contrast to the situation in neighbouring West Bengal, where the Mamata Banerjee-led government has been on a collision course with the Modi government. The rapport between the two dispensations has developed in spite of the fact that BJP is the principal opposition party in Odisha and Pradhan is its most prominent face in the state. After the bitterly fought elections of last year, BJD has supported most initiatives of the Modi government, including the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dharmendra-lauds-naveen-for-centre-state-coordination/articleshow/75541012.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||300 workers reach city from Jaisalmer, will leave for Bihar||Jaisalmer: In the final phase, around 300 migrant labourers in Jaisalmer due to lockdown were sent to Jaipur on Monday. They will go to Bihar from Jaipur by train. In this way, more than 35,000 labourers caught here have been sent back to their homes. Apart from this, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked the government to send migrants to their homes on her personal cost after which cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad sent two buses to Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi and Raibareilly with 12 people on his personal cost. On the other hand, the number of migrants coming back to the state is continuously increasing. Looking at this the Barmer and Jaisalmer district administrations have deployed severa; teams and check posts for health check-up, screening and maintaining records.Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta said that after sending 35,000 migrant labourers back to their homes within and outside the state, there were around 300 laboures from Bihar. After medical screening, sanitisation and all formalities, they were sent to Jaipur in buses on Monday. They will leave for Bihar on Tuesday.He said that with better management and planned efforts all these labourers could be sent back to their places from Jaisalmer.He said that amid lockdown, as per the directions from the state government, till Monday evening around 35,000 labourers were sent back to their homes. Around 14,000 labourers were from Rajasthan, while around 21,000 labourers were from other states. He said these labourers were kept in shelter homes at various places in the district and were provided food and other facilities.He said around 14,000 labourers were sent to 15 districts of Rajasthan and maximum of them were from Ganganagar and Hanumangarh. He said around 21,000 labourers were from other parts of the country including Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/300-workers-reach-city-from-jaisalmer-will-leave-for-bihar/articleshow/75544202.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Over 120 migrant workers from Jharkhand, Rajasthan detained while walking back home||BERHAMPUR: Over 120 migrant workers from Jharkhand and Rajasthan, who were placed under institutional quarantine at Kanishi on the outskirts of the Silk City, by the Ganjam district administration, were detained by police at Haladiapadara when they were walking down the national highway 16 on Monday after the end of the period of their isolation. “The district administration had assured us of making arrangements for our transportation after the end of the second phase of the lockdown on May 3. But it did not take any steps. We want to go back to our home state at any cost,” they said. While 120 workers belong to Jharkhand, six are from Rajasthan. They were in the quarantine centre for more than a month. The district administration had put them up in quarantine after they were detained at the interstate checkpost near Balarampur last month. These labourers, who were engaged at a construction site at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, were forced to walk after the end of the quarantine period as bus and train services were suspended owing to the lockdown. They were put up in the hostel of a private engineering college at Kanishi. During their stay in the house, the district administration had provided food to them. Their health check-up was also done regularly. They are at the new bus stand at Haladiapadara at present. “We are arranging for buses to take them to their homes,” Shinde Dattatraya Bhausaheb, the subcollector of Berhampur, said. He added that at least three buses would be arranged to take the workers from Jharkhand home. For those from Rajathan, the district administration is yet to take a decision. Meanwhile, migrant workers of other states, who were taken to quarantine centres at different places in Berhampur have pleaded to be taken back to their respective states. “The government has allowed the movement of stranded labourers in different states. There is no reason to detain us here for the last 20 days,” a labourer from West Bengal said. Around 300 labourers from different states, including West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharastra, Bihar, Rajasthan, etc were put up in quarantine centres here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/over-120-migrant-workers-from-jkhand-raj-detained-while-walking-back-home/articleshow/75541034.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Police raid pan masala godown||HYDERABAD: A godown in Ramakrishna Nagar colony of Chengicherla was raided and two persons manufacturning pan masala and transporting it across the city were arrested.  A four wheeler with a fake logo of a media organisation - being used to transport the pan masala - was also seized, along with raw material worth Rs 13,000. “Apart from other relevant sections, the accused were also booked under section 120 of IPC for using the fake logo,” said Malkajgiri ACP Y Narasimha Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-raid-pan-masala-godown/articleshow/75543489.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Six Asha workers infected in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Eighteen people inlcuding six Asha workers and a police constable tested positive for coronavirus in Bhavnagar on Monday. Of these 16 are asymptomatic patients, who did not have any of the symptoms associated with the virus infection. With this the tally of Covid-19 infected persons rose to 74 in Bhavnagar. The six Asha workers and the cop who tested positive were posted in the contaminant area. The Asha workers were part of the surveillance team in Bordigate area. The others who tested positive are the residents of Pakhalivad, and Vadva area. Bhavnaar district development officer (DDO) V J Baranwal said, “We detected these cases during active community surveillance. The process of active suveillance is on and will come to know the trend in next 2-3 days as to why number of people are getting infected.” In Botad, three people tested positive on Monday, taking the tally to 33. Meanwhile, three women from Ahmedabad who came to Jamnagar on Sunday tested positive on Monday. According to district administration these women were have been kept in the Samras hostel on the outskirts of the Jamnagar city. Officials said that the women are residents of Shakti society in Isanpur area of Ahmedabad. They had valid travel passes issued by Maninagar mamlatdar. Though the permission was for three women and three children, five women were found travelling on the pass. Jamnagar collector Ravi Shankar said, “It’s surprising how these people got pass to travel from a containment area. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/6-asha-workers-infected-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75541081.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||NGO to citizens: Use red bin for domestic hazardous waste||Bengaluru: City-based NGO Saahas, which works in the field of waste management, has called on Bengalureans to place a red dustbin next to their green and blue ones.According to Saahas, the red bin will be used to segregate domestic hazardous waste, which consists of bio-medical waste like cotton bandage or anything with human fluids. In the present scenario, it’s where you can dispose of used masks.Archana Tripathi of Saahas told TOI that as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, it’s the responsibility of waste generators to segregate it into three categories — wet, dry and hazardous. In 2017, the government in its Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, however, called for segregation of waste into dry and wet. “The likely reason may have been convincing people to directly go from one dustbin to three. It was easier to ask them to use two,” says Archana.Also, the concept of domestic hazardous waste was alien back then and people preferred to stick to dry and wet categories. But the Covid-19 crisis has brought to light how domestic waste can also be hazardous.Archana explains that biomedical waste generated at home is potentially harmful if left exposed and can lead to contamination of other waste categories if mixed with them. Sharp items like broken glass and needles can also be safely disposed of in the red bin knowing it will not be manually touched by waste handlers. Soggy, oily tissue and waste from sweeping floors, which can ruin compost or dry waste, can also go there, she adds.With a motto of Har Din Teen Bin, the NGO aims to protect waste handlers and others by segregation of waste into wet (green), dry (blue) and domestic hazardous (red). “This is already being practised in some Bengaluru apartments. But more people need to adopt it,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngo-to-citizens-use-red-bin-for-domestic-hazardous-waste/articleshow/75543499.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||About 23% of firms in MIDC areas resume operations||PUNE: About 23% of the 4,700 firms in different MIDC zones started operations with a small employee base on Monday. Most firms have, however, resumed only pre-preparation work in the areas where business activities are allowed. “About 1,100 firms have started work in some form. We are allowing people to work from anywhere, except Bhosari, Talawade and Moshi,” Sanjay Deshmukh, regional officer, MIDC, said. In a huge relief to industries, Pune district collector has also waived the need of any pass for employees to resume work in areas where work is allowed. Some work has started in firms at the Ranjangaon MIDC area, in Shirwal and Talegaon. “All industrial units in Pune district (outside PMC and PCMC limits and containment zones of rural areas ) should start working immediately . No formal permission and passes required. However, no labour or employees from containment zones will be allowed to travel or work . Industries will have to make dedicated transport arrangements for travel in PMC and PCMC areas,” collector Naval Kishore Ram said, adding that staffers should carry their office identity cards at all times. An auto firm representative said the work at its plant mainly was for pre-production and a lot of other factors had to fall in place before actual production could begin. For automakers, starting production will be a function of demand. Auto sales were largely zero in April 2020, save and except for a bit of exports. “You can say that we are oiling the assembly line. This won’t start immediately but the hope is get started in due course,” another auto firm representative said. A lot of companies, who have live orders, are unable to service them if their factories are in the red zones. In one such call on Sunday, a company manager just asked for five employees to be permitted to attend work to finish the pending order. However, since the factory is in Bhosari, the permission was denied. Employers also want to bide their time before going full throttle to ensure that this is not a start-stop arrangement. “We cannot flip a switch. A lot going into resuming operations. So, it is still wait and watch for now ,” said an industry representative. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/about-23-of-firms-in-midc-areas-resume-operations/articleshow/75544211.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cement town Nimbahera is latest coronavirus hotspot||JAIPUR: The cement town of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh has emerged as the latest Covid-19 hotspot in the state. It reported 89 positive cases and one death till Monday afternoon. The town was free from coronavirus till April 25. It has become the first tehsil to have been badly hit by the virus. The town is bordering Madhya Pradesh and hundreds of migrant workers stranded in cement factories there are causing jitters to the administration. This has dashed hopes for the cement plant to operate under the modified lockdown. The first case in the cement town was reported on April 26 of a trader who visited pandemic-hit Indore for a trade deal in the middle of April illegally. By the time his entire family was put under home isolation, the virus had spread in the entire area due to to comparatively relaxed lockdown in the town. The trader later died while undergoing treatment in Udaipur. “It is unfortunate but true that so far all cases have emerged out of a single source. Almost 90% of the cases have reported from three small areas in the town,” said Inderjit Singh, the CMHO, Chittorgarh. So far, 1,450 samples have been taken with 1,000 turned out to be negative while result of 350 is pending. The town, doesn’t have medical facility, that is why all patients have been sent to Udaipur. Now, door-to-door screening by health workers has been started. Exact figures are not available but close to 1,000 persons have been home quarantined for 14 days and another 350 have been kept under isolation till their reports come. The district administration which was hopeful to restart the closed cement plants will not have to wait indefinitely. The area has country’s four major cement plants. Another fear which the administration is facing is of illegal entry of migrant workers and families from Madhya Pradesh into Rajasthan via Nimbahera. The border town is so close to MP border that several households have their housed in Rajasthan and farmlands in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cement-town-nimbahera-is-latest-coronavirus-hotspot/articleshow/75544215.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Pune||Credai urges workers not to leave for hometown||PUNE: Credai, the developers’ body, is reaching out to workers at construction sites to ensure that they do not return to their hometowns. With the collector’s new order allowing resumption of construction activity, Credai is ensuring passes for contractors and other workers and even ferrying their goods so that work can start in non-containment zones, said Pune CREDAI metro president Suhas Merchant. The real estate sector has received a bitter blow with no construction activity for the past two months now. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram on Saturday issued orders that construction activity can start in non-containment areas. He said on Monday that while there are seven talukas which are partly in containment zone, construction activities will commence and workers need not leave the city in panic. With over 15,000 applications received by the police from migrant workers, students and tourists, the district administration has to get in touch with respective states for their permissions and only then will passes be issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/credai-urges-workers-not-to-leave-for-hometown/articleshow/75544220.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Veterinary doctor killed in Kota road accident||Kota: A 30-year-old man, posted as doctor at veterinary hospital in Khatoli town, Kota district, died on the spot after a speeding matador collided with his motorbike on Monday morning on Sultanpur – Kota highway under Degod police station area. The mishap occurred around 8.30am when Rajesh Kasera was on his way to the hospital from his residence at Kota. Kasera was a resident of Old Jawahar Nagar area of Kota city. The doctor was immediately rushed to community health centre at Sultanpur, but the doctors declared him brought dead. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veterinary-doctor-killed-in-kota-road-accident/articleshow/75544222.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur cops help deliver baby on road as car breaks down||Jaipur: A team of Jodhpur (west) police was in a tizzy when they spotted a pregnant woman in labour writhing in pain inside an SUV that had stopped near a barricade at Pratap Nagar police station area in Jodhpur. The vehicle had broken down. Seeing the condition of the woman, the police team including deputy commissioner of police (west) arranged for the para-medical staff and a tent and the woman gave birth to a girl child inside the SUV on the road. Everyone heaved a sigh of relief when the delivery was successful and the mother and the baby could be admitted to a nearby hospital.According to police, the incident took place at 7.30pm when a SUV stopped near a barricade. “We spotted a pregnant woman in the car who was screaming in pain,” Preeti Chandra, deputy commissioner of police (west) told TOI. Preeti, along with two women constables Sushila and Sugna, covered the woman and the area where the vehicle was parked. “I asked our policemen to bring a doctor or a nurse. However, the woman’s delivery was started and the baby started to come out. The woman gave birth to a girl child and finally, we could arrange para-medical staff and an ambulance for her. She was taken to the hospital with the child,” Preeti added. The police team stayed with the woman’s family, until the doctors reassured them that things were under control. Shaitan Singh, brother of the woman, of Nagana Dhoriyon Ki Dhani, said, “I am grateful to the police. Because of them, the lives of my sister and her child could be saved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-cops-help-deliver-baby-on-road-as-car-breaks-down/articleshow/75544229.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 5, 2020||Delhi||No relaxations if norms are ignored: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Following the chaos outside some liquor shops in the capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned on Monday that relaxations would be revoked in unruly areas and shops would be sealed if social distancing norms were violated. Urging people to practise social distancing, Kejriwal said, “It was unfortunate to see that people did not follow social distancing in front of shops at a few locations across the city. Crowding and chaos were reported at these locations.” People need to realise that such actions increase the risk of contracting novel coronavirus, he said, adding that they even put their families at high risk. “These actions are not acceptable,” the chief minister emphasised. “If needed, we will have to take stringent decisions like sealing areas where the social distancing protocol is not followed by people, and I will have to withdraw all relaxations announced on Sunday,” Kejriwal said. He, however, refrained from directly referring to liquor shops. All standalone and neighbourhood non-essential shops have been allowed to open from Monday after Delhi government decided to implement the relaxations permitted by the Centre in the red zone. All 11 districts of Delhi have been marked as the red zone. Kejriwal said the relaxations were allowed to restart the economy and help people bring their life back on track. “If there are violations, we will have no option but to revoke these relaxations. Shopkeepers should take responsibility for the same, or we will have to seal those shops where violations are being reported.” However, reposing “full faith in the people of Delhi”, the chief minister said, “I am sure that we will be able to defeat novel coronavirus in the same way as we defeated dengue.” Meanwhile, the Delhi cabinet has decided to hire home healthcare providers to assist Covid-19 patients in home isolation. A training manual will be given to all patients and their caregivers. A team of health workers will call each patient personally, and educate them on best practices for home isolation. This will be followed by a daily call to track all important vitals of every patient and answer their queries. The patients will also get automatic SMS alerts for tests to be done after 14 days of isolation. “Delhi government is working with one of the best home healthcare providers in the country to make sure all Covid-19 patients get the best healthcare possible during their home isolation period,” the government said. Although the number of positive cases has been steadily increasing, the rate of recovery has also seen a significant rise. The number of containment zones, which rose to 100 last week, now stands at 90. In another decision, the cabinet formally approved the May ration for 38 lakh non-public distribution card holders who have been issued e-coupons for the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-no-relaxations-if-norms-are-ignored/articleshow/75543536.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 5, 2020||India||600 univs, 25,000 colleges are not accredited in India||NEW DELHI: Possibility of poor grades is the reason behind non-participation of 22% of higher education institutions in the accreditation process of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) while 26% of institutions don’t apply as they lack permanent faculty and 5.5% for not having a permanent head of the institution. These are some of the findings of the accreditation survey conducted by NAAC, under the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) in March. It said 72% of institutionsare currently in the process of improving their quality and resources to apply for NAAC accreditation. The government rolled out the revised accreditation framework (RAF) in 2017, which came into effect in 2018 and has so far accredited 74 universities and 1,485 colleges. According to HRD ministry sources, at present there are 600 unaccredited universities and 25,000 unaccredited colleges in the country. Speaking to TOI, NAAC Director, Prof S C Sharma, said though the government has made accreditation mandatory, unless it is enforced it will take time for some institutions to come forward. “NAAC accreditation is a diagnostic tool. It helps institutions to understand themselves and improve. A total of 13,399 institutions have been accredited since its inception in 1994, including 1,559 under the RAF, 2017. A little bit of enforcement will act as a catalyst. The government had taken a good step by putting up State -Level Quality Assurance Cell (SLQAC). State-level incentive for accreditation will go a long way.” On the importance of accreditation, he said it not only guides students in their decision on pursuance of higher education, “top universities abroad ask for the institute’s accreditation details”. While launching RAF, NAAC had assured transparency and objectivity. NAAC has set the tone for digitised era of assessment and accreditation, wherein 70% weightage will be evaluated through ICT and 30% through peer team visits. Now it is planning to enhance its accreditation numbers to an average 2,500 HEIs in a year, from the existing 1,500. A big number of non-accredited colleges are government-run institutions or are in rural areas, which is now the thrust area for NAAC. Less than 1% of the colleges managed the top grade of A++, while 66.4% of colleges were graded in between B++ and B. Among the universities, 6.5% were accorded A++ grade under the RAF, while 51.4% were graded between B++ and B grades. “Under the RAF, grades are more objective and data-oriented unlike before. Earlier it was 100% peer team verification. It was not 100% objective .... If it is not mathematical, it becomes subjective. Now 70% is objective and 30% is subjective. If you don’t find the evidence as claimed by the institutions one cannot record it for assessment,” said Sharma. “Now we want to adopt machine learning and artificial intelligence in accreditation to make things faster and take it to the next level. Also now NAAC’s mission is to handhold rural and government colleges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/600-univs-25000-colleges-are-not-accredited-in-india/articleshow/75544828.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to pay train fares of students returning home: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday said the state government was paying the fare of students returning from Kota in Rajasthan by special trains. “The students, who are coming back from Kota, do not have to pay any train fare. The state government is paying the fare to the railways,” Nitish categorically said. In a bid to clarify the raging confusion as to who will pay the fare of those returning to Bihar by special trains amid the lockdown, Nitish said the migrant workers would be reimbursed the fare on completion of their 21-day period of quarantine at their respective centre at block level. “Each migrant worker or other people returning from outside the state will be paid Rs500 along with reimbursement of train and other fares at their respective block quarantine centres. A minimum amount of Rs1,000 will be paid to each returnee on completion of the quarantine period,” Nitish said in a recorded video clip released by his office on Monday. The CM said his government did not make any announcement about the fare of special trains earlier because “we believe in doing work and not making propaganda”. Nitish also thanked the Centre for providing special trains on his government’s advice to facilitate transportation of stranded migrant workers, student and others from different parts of the country. He said the people arriving by special trains would first be screened at the railways station. “After screening, they would be taken to their respective block quarantine centre by special buses. All necessary arrangements for food, lodging and medical assistance have been made at each quarantine centre where they will have to stay for 21 days. I have asked the officials to also make arrangements of sufficient number of toilets and washrooms at these quarantine centres,” he said. Recounting his government’s help to stranded natives of Bihar in other states, Nitish said Rs1,000 was being paid to each family stranded outside state. “Till date, we have transferred Rs1,000 each in the bank accounts of around 19 lakh people who applied to the Bihar government for the monetary assistance. The applications of few people are still under scrutiny. Money would be transferred in their bank accounts soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-govt-to-pay-train-fares-of-students-returning-home/articleshow/75541425.cms||Madan Kumar
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Exporters want 12-hour shifts||Tirupur: The Apparel Export Promotion Council (APEC) has requested the state government to extend working hours of export units to 72 hours from 48 hours per week as they anticipate a huge labour shortage.APEC chairman A Sakthivel in a memorandum to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said that certain states like Gujarat have made amendments to the factories Act so that workers are allowed to work for 72 hours. “Tirupur is also witnessing a huge manpower shortage as much of the migrant workers have gone to their native places. It will take time for them to return since there are no adequate transport facilities now,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/exporters-want-12-hour-shifts/articleshow/75542483.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Work Spaces Need To Be Set Up At Home||Hyderabad: With the work-from-home (WFH) feature set to become the new normal, the realty sector has to brace itself for disruption in two areas – the office space, with fewer work areas, and the residential segment, where new dedicated workspaces need to be carved out, says Vishal Garg, a professor and Head of the Center for IT in Building Science at International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT Hyderabad) and Milind Mantravadi, an alumnus of the institute. Sharing insights on the ‘new normal’, they said that to facilitate a seamless experience of working from home, the inclusion of a dedicated area at home is necessary. Quoting Avinash Suresh, Region Head – South, Birla Estates Pvt Ltd, Garg said that home designs of the future will need to be flexible enough to accommodate home offices, not merely through the addition of extra rooms or space but by adopting innovative solutions like the modularity of space within the house, offering common workspaces within the residential complex and including support services for working professionals like creches, canteens and so on. Stressing that WFH will improve work-life balance and diminish commute fatigue, they also pointed out that the demand for high speed, low-latency internet connectivity, data privacy, home office furniture, as well as thermal comfort and lighting as expected in any office will witness a surge. After analysing a hypothetical office space, 10,000 square meters that could conventionally seat a total of 800 employees by considering two scenarios-- One, where there is 100% employee presence in the office on all workdays and another where there is only a 20% presence, Garg and Mantravadi said that there is a huge potential for saving of Capital Investment Cost and Operational Expense Cost (Opex) to the tune of 76% in the next seven years for companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/work-spaces-need-to-be-set-up-at-home/articleshow/75542484.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||8 discharged from Rajkot||Rajkot: Eight people were discharged from the hospitals in Rajkot on Monday. According to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) Allarakha Mahadan (84), Hanif Khira (31), Jamila Chudasama (30), Kheru Ahanka (37), Gani Piparvadia (60), Sahil Dodhiya (27), Shakil Yusuf (16) and Taslim dodhiya (27) were discharged from civil hospital. They all are residents of Jangleshwar in Rajkot. Two dozen people have recovered so far from infection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/8-discharged-from-rajkot/articleshow/75541111.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||Overseas citizens left out of govt’s repatriation list||Panaji: Even as the Indian government is drawing up a plan to bring home Indians stranded across the globe due to the pandemic, it is left to be seen if OCI card holders would also be considered for repatriation. Several Goan OCI card holders have made appeals to the government for help to return to Goa and with their jobs at stake due to lockdowns across the world, the government is expected to receive more such requests in the coming weeks. In many cases, it is one spouse who is an OCI and the other who is an Indian citizen, further complicating the issue. However the Goa NRI commission that has collected the data of around 10,000 people seeking assistance to immediately return to Goa has not included the requests from Portuguese passport OCI card holders. The commission has restricted itself to collecting and collating data on Indian nationals stranded abroad after the central government decided to keep the visa-free travel facility to OCI card holders in abeyance. This travel restriction came into force on March 13. The NRI assistance form gives people only two options when they click on the nationality box- ‘Indian’ or ‘Other’. “There is a big difference between a person who has a long visa and one who is an OCI. The amendment to the Indian Citizenship Act has given OCI holders legal standing. The government is talking about suspension of OCI visas. This cannot be left to the discretion of the Indian missions abroad,” a travel agent told TOI. However former advocate general Carlos Alvares Ferreira says OCI are not Indian citizens and adds that during a pandemic a country only has an obligation towards its own citizens. “They are foreign citizens for all purposes. I empathise with them but this is the reality of the law and limitations of the Indian government. The amendment to the Indian Citizenship Act only gives them a status but doesn’t recognise them as Indian citizens and hence they have limited rights,” he says.“The government can be gracious and assist them but not bound to do this,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overseas-citizens-left-out-of-govts-repatriation-list/articleshow/75544256.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Chennai||More cops on Chennai borders as a larger crowd tries to flee||CHENNAI: As more than 500 cars were caught at Vandalur check post on Monday for trying to sneak out of the city without valid passes, people fleeing Chennai started taking interior routes on their bikes to escape police attention. Police, however, blocked these connecting roads too by on Monday afternoon. The Chengelpet police set up an additional check post at Paranur as a precautionary measure to ensure that no one crossed the city’s borders on bikes. Police strength at East Coast Road (ECR) and Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) check posts were also increased on Monday. Ever since Covid-19 cases in Chennai witnessed a steep hike, people started taking all shortcuts to leave the city and reach their native districts. “Some hid under tarpaulin sheets, vegetable loads of trucks. But after Koyambedu cluster grew, people fear travelling by trucks. So they came up with fake vehicle passes and medical documents,” said a senior police officer. All of these vehicles were turned back. From Tuesday, city police will start screening vehicles right from Chromepet and Tambaram to ensure there are no long queues at Vandalur or Paranur. As queues started to grow, a separate lane was created for emergency and essential services vehicles at the checkposts to ensure they were not stranded in this traffic. Additional police force was deployed to check passes in other lanes and clear the queue faster, a police officer added. Each check post now has a 40-member team headed by a deputy superintendent of police (DSP). Despite the efforts, some vehicles managed to sneak out and were caught while entering other districts. Such cases were reported at Sivaganga and Kanyakumari on Monday. Police are using special mobile apps to track such violators. As a precaution, thermal screening was done for all passengers at district borders, and those with fever were immediately directed to nearby hospitals, said a police officer from Sivaganga district. While there was a clampdown on those leaving Chennai, many entered the city freely from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-cops-on-city-borders-as-a-larger-crowd-tries-to-flee/articleshow/75543543.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi should give minimum relief: Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: The capital is among the most affected regions due to Covid-19 in the country and it will be better to continue with stringent measures in Delhi, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. “I should not comment on what more needs to be done in Delhi as it may be taken as a political statement. But considering the current status, I personally feel that more stringent action needs to be taken in the national capital to combat Covid-19,” Vardhan said. “I think that minimum relaxation should be given by Delhi government during the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19,” he added. Delhi has 11 districts and all of them have been categorised as red zone under the new classification, which considers the extent of testing and surveillance feedback, in addition to the number of cases and the doubling rate. Vardhan said the Centre had issued guidelines on restrictive measures needed depending on the case load. But it has been left to the states to apply their discretion to implement the same depending on the incidence rate, he added. Referring to Delhi government’s decision to open liquor shops though the capital is still in the red zone, the health minister said the decision should be reviewed in view of huge crowds outside many outlets, which increases the risk of spread of Covid-19. A source in Delhi government, however, said it had allowed only what the Union home ministry had permitted. As per the latest data, Delhi has 4,898 Covid-19 cases, the third most affected state in the country — after Maharashtra and Gujarat — in terms of the number of cases. It has been recording more than 300 new cases daily for the past three days. Epidemiologists, however, say the peak is yet to come. “We haven’t seen the peak of Covid-19 in Delhi as yet. The numbers will go up further in the coming days and to save an acute burden on health infrastructure, it is important to encourage people to follow social distancing,” said a senior epidemiologist working on Covid-19 control. Delhi has about 3,000 dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients, suspected or confirmed. Nearly 40% of these beds are already occupied, an official said. “We have 935 positive cases. Of them, 72 are requiring ICU support while 13 are on ventilator. If there is a sudden surge in cases, it may get difficult to manage the rush,” said a senior doctor. Dr S K Sarin, chairman of the task force constituted by Delhi government for Covid-19 management, suggested last week that the lockdown measures might have to continue till May 16 at least, when the epidemic curve was expected to start declining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-should-give-minimum-relief-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/75543554.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Lake beautification work begins in city||COIMBATORE: Most of the government projects resumed in the city on Monday, a month after the lockdown was imposed to control the spread of Covid-19. While the highways department has resumed flyover construction works, the corporation has restarted lake beautification projects and multi-level car parking projects implementing under the smart cities mission. A senior official with the state highways department said the flyover construction work at Ukkadam has been started with minimal workforce. “We had directed the contractor to provide safety gears to the workers and to ensure social distancing during the work. We will speed up the work gradually after obtaining sufficient manpower.” The officials have been asked to submit a report on the condition of the roads. “We want to carry out maintenance work on the roads. As chances of rainfall is low, damages will be less. We plan to clear bushes along the roads,” he said. The national highways wing has resumed flyover construction on Trichy Road with a minimal labour force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lake-beautification-work-begins-in-city/articleshow/75542500.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Garment units seek permission to work||Coimbatore: Garment units in Tirupur are likely to start functioning from Wednesday if they manage to obtain due permission from the district administration.Following the state government’s move to extend the lockdown by another two weeks with some relaxations, district collector K Vijayakarthikeyan held a meeting with representatives from industrial associations on Monday to discuss ways and means to restart business activity – construction and industries – in the district. Industries and companies in town panchayats, municipality and corporation limit will have to apply through the website – https://tnepass.tnega.org – for permission to commence their business activities. The micro, small and medium industries in rural areas can submit applications manually,” Vijayakarthikeyan said, adding that no business activities will be permitted in containment zones Permission to reopen a business will be granted only if guidelines on social distancing are followed, he said, adding that if permission is granted, industries could function from May 6. Raja M Shanmugam, president of Tirupur Exporters’ Association (TEA) said the application forms would be submitted at the collectorate on Tuesday.At present, manufacturing units of export oriented industries would be submitting the applications. Officials have assured to open supporting units like knitting, printing and dyeing industries in a phased manner, he added.“Once the industries are opened, we would start our sampling process and send the sample to our buyers. We can manage to run the industry with 50% of the workforce for about 3 to 6 weeks. It is only when the actual production starts that we would require 100% workforce,” he added. Meanwhile, the industrialists have been trying to convince guest workers to stay back in the district as industries could start functioning in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/garment-units-seek-permission-to-work/articleshow/75542493.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 5, 2020||Goa||Board exam dates only after May 17 if Goa remains in Green Zone: CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state will declare the schedule for class X exams and the three pending papers for class XII after the third phase of lockdown ends on May 17. “As per the home ministry guidelines, even if we have to declare the ate of the exam, it has to be done after May 17,” he said. Sawant said the schedule would be announced only if Goa continued to be in the Green Zone. Chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Ramkrishna Samant said the decision would be taken, in all probability, on May 18. An executive council member of the Goa board said it was felt that there may be confusion in the minds of the students if a board exam schedule is announced now and if any changes are necessitated due to the lockdown later. Therefore, the executive committee that met on Monday, decided to come out with a schedule only once the lockdown ends on May 17. Sawant said he understood the mental state of students and parents due to delay in exams and said the state would announce the schedule at least 10 days before the exams start. But, he said, wen the disaster management act is in force, the state cannot hold the exams without the prior permission of the home ministry. Sawant said he has already spoken to the HRD minister and the secretary and urged them to allow Goa to conduct the exam as it has been classified as a Green Zone. Sawant also asked the teachers to keep in touch with students and to counsel them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/board-exam-dates-only-after-may-17-if-goa-remains-in-green-zone-cm/articleshow/75544259.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Construction work picks up pace with 30% workers reporting to duty in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After a slow start over the weekend, construction activity in the city picked up pace on Monday, with an increasing number of workers -- all of them migrant labourers -- rejoining duty. According to developers, most of their sites saw anywhere between 30% and 40% attendance with many reporting close to 70% footfall, albeit spread over three shifts. The numbers, they say, are expected to rise further over the course of the week. Agree labour contractors, managing camps across Hyderabad’s IT corridor. “About 1,000 of the 3,000-odd residents went to work on Monday. We are certain that more will follow suit as they are now mulling staying back to earn some money, before going home,” said a contractor from a labour camp in Nanakramguda. He said, roughly 500 people are working at each of his two sites that usually see more than 2,000 labourers deployed at the same time. “We have carved out three different shifts – 6 am to 2.30 pm, 8 am to 4.30 pm and 10.30 am to 6 pm – to ensure less crowding at the sites,” said D S Prasad, director, Aparna Constructions that has started work across seven projects. “On an average there are 1,500 to 1,800 people at each site, working in shifts...We are encouraging more labourers to resume work,” he added. Dispelling fears about the new norms delaying construction activity severely, developers said that there wouldn’t be more than a two to three-month delay, if labourers continue to report to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/construction-work-picks-up-pace-with-30-workers-reporting-to-duty/articleshow/75542504.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 5, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor shops in Amt to remain shut||AMRAVATI: Tipplers eagerly awaiting reopening of liquor shops here are hugely disappointed as the district administration has decided to continue the restrictions even during the second extension of the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, district collector Shailesh Naval said, “No concession will be given to shops other than those selling essential commodities, as of now.” “Permission to liquor shops will be given in coming days only after the owners mandatorily comply with the conditions imposed by state excise department and the administration,” said Naval. He said that a meeting of shop owners would soon be held and they would be made aware of the rules and conditions laid down by the excise commissioner. “Liquor shop owners will be required to submit fitness certificate of their staff and will have to keep sanitizers apart from ensuring social distancing and strict compliance of other conditions. Permission will be granted only after reviewing the situation,” he said. Naval said no new concessions have been given to non-essential businesses and they will remain shut during the lockdown period, i.e. till May 17. To ensure limited movement of people in containment zones, entry-exit passes have been issued to essential services only. “In view of Ramzan, arrangements have been made to deliver fruits at the doorsteps to members of Muslim community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-shops-in-amt-to-remain-shut/articleshow/75543567.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kozhikode||More containment zones in Wayanad||Kozhikode: The Wayanad district authorities have declared 37 wards in various local bodies, including nine wards of Mananthavady municipality, as containment zones following reporting of a Covid-19 case in the district on Saturday. The Covid-19 containment zones include all the 17 wards of Thirunelly panchayat, and selected wards of Edavaka, Vellamunda and Meenangadi panchayats. The restrictions will come into place from Tuesday onwards. The containment zones were identified as per the route map of the Covid-19 positive patient. Health department has been able to trace 30 primary contacts of the patient. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that strict restrictions will be in place for 14 days in the containment zones. People residing in the zones should not venture out except for medical or other emergencies and essential items will be delivered to the houses by the local bodies. Meanwhile, people stranded in other states following the lockdown started their return through the Muthanga checkpost with 127 persons entering the state through the entry point on Monday. This included the special children and their parents who had got stranded in Mysuru after going there for treatment for treatment at All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH). The team of 106 persons from 36 families had arrived at the checkpost in two buses and two cars. Apart from the group from AIISH, 21 others entered the state using emergency passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/more-containment-zones-in-wayanad/articleshow/75541151.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Don’t even have loos: Tamils in Kuwait||Chennai: They looked scruffy, their well-worn masks pulled down below their nose. Several of them couldn’t care less about not wearing them. Their suitcases and bags stuffed with clothes lined the streets of Jleeb Al Shuwaikh, a town in Farwaniya governorate in Kuwait. The Indian Embassy is 15km away on Gulf Street in Al Daiya. A couple of months ago P Anbazhagan, 51, earned 3 dinars a day, about Rs 20,000 a month, and felt quite rich. Hailing from a hamlet in Perambalur district, he worked for a construction firm, until he was laid off in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “We smell like garbage because we haven’t bathed for three days. We have no bathrooms to use. We plead for help from India, TN government,” said Anbazhagan. If the plight of the men was pathetic, the condition of a number of women staying a few metres away is worse, said Mohammed, a Tamil worker from Tenkasi. Puwara Singh from a village in Punjab ran his fingers through his unkempt beard, appearing lost and uncertain. He is among the hundreds of Indian workers, who have no roof over their head after they lost their jobs and took to the streets close to the Indian Embassy five days ago to try for the Emergency Travel Document to return home. Around a dozen men have sought refuge in a vehicle shed. “A total of 24,500 among the 10lakh Indians are residence violators for petty offences, besides overstaying their visa,” said an Indian embassy official in Kuwait, not willing to be named. Among them, around one lakh hail from Tamil Nadu and four lakh from Kerala. Embassy officials believe around 50,000 workers may have filled up the online information collection sheet for repatriation. With Indian ministry of home affairs announcing on Monday that it would bring back stranded expatriates living in Covid-19-hit foreign countries across the world from May 7, the rush could be heavier. The Kuwaiti government has arranged three flights and free air travel for several workers to return to India, said officials. “People are living in pathetic conditions on the streets and crammed in small one room lodgings in groups of 12 and 14,” said Alwin Jose, a social worker with Kuwait Human Rights Society. Many more Indians are in medical camps, hospitals, quarantine centres and under observation in cramped living conditions. J Gopalakrishnan, 46, just recovered from Covid infection and has been quarantined in a small one-room quarter with two others, A Rajkumar from Puducherry and A Rajamani from Tirunelveli. The two have been laid off and can no longer afford the lodging. But won’t the roommates stand the risk of catching the infection? “There is no other place for them to go but the streets. I am taking care of their food,” shrugged Gopalakrishnan, who works in a printing press and whose pay had been cut by half. On the streets of Jleeb Al Shuwaikh, Anbazhagan, Puwara Singh and Mohammed prepared to turn in for the night inside the stuffy car shed. They looked warily at Ekanta Nasargan, 29, as they settled in. The Nepali had been showing signs of Covid symptoms, a dry cough and fever. But, for now, the bedraggled lot have no option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-even-have-loos-tamils-in-kuwait/articleshow/75543559.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers protest in Tirupur, seek spl trains||Coimbatore: Over 100 guest workers gathered in front of the Tirupur railway station on Monday and demanded the state government run special trains for them to travel back to their respective states. The guest workers, mostly from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, pointed out Kerala’s example of sending its guest workers back in special trains over the last three days. “If other states are sending workers back, why can’t the state government take steps to send us back?” asked a worker. “We do not expect any help from the government other than transporting us back to our respective states.” Police officials rushed to the railway station to pacify the protesters. An official said the workers were insisting that they should be sent back home even after being assured that their food and shelter needs would be taken care of. The district collector has been informed of their common demand, a police officer said. Subsequently, the district administration organized a camp at Jaivabai municipal girls higher secondary school to assist all workers in registering on portals of different state governments in order to get back home. The district collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said, “We created a QR code for each state’s portal and pasted it on the school walls. We then asked the workers to register in the portal of their respective states using the QR code.” The collector said close to 6,000 workers had registered at the camp. An official from district administration said that once the registration process nears completion, both the state governments would hold talks on how to transport the workers and based on their decision, travel arrangements would be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-protest-in-tirupur-seek-spl-trains/articleshow/75542508.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Deesa town declared containment zone||Palanpur: Deesa town was declared containment zone after three persons tested positive for Covid-19 there on Monday. One new case was also reported from Patan. Nitaben Darji, 33, who had returned from Ahmedabad on May 2 tested positive along with Babubhai Vaghela, 55, and his wife Jiviben Vaghela, 45. All three were admitted to Banas Medical College, said its executive officer Jawahar Chandani. The district has recorded 26 positive cases till date. Meanwhile, in Patan district a 44-year-old man tested positive on Monday. He is resident of Katarasamal village in Saraswati taluka. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/deesa-town-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/75541139.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||In ‘destination’ Green Zone, quarantine facilities run full||PANAJI: While Goans outside the state and seafarers struggle to get back home, the state’s quarantine facilities are running full, as many people whose only connection to Goa is owning a second home here, seem to have made a beeline to the state. A senior government official told TOI that Goa, currently a ‘Green Zone’, is now a top destination not only for stranded Goans elsewhere in India, but also for those some have unofficially dubbed ‘VIP category’. All those who have entered Goa of late have been accommodated in facility quarantine centres run by the government. And while officials declined to tell TOI who exactly these are and their reasons for coming to Goa at this crucial juncture in the state’s fight against Covid-19, it is clear that many of them are taking up valuable space in quarantine centres. As of Monday, about 380 persons were placed in facility quarantine. “Most quarantine facilities have been full,” an official said. Many of the inmates, sources said, are Goans who do not live in the state, but traditionally spend their summer vacations here. Keeping them company in facility quarantine are non-Goans who own properties and homes along the coastal belt and in the state’s interiors, and prefer to be in the green zone while the country fights Covid-19. Officials were tightlipped about them and the process they followed to enter the state. “Authorities are having a tough time dealing with the increasing number of people in these facilities.” One official familiar with running these centres minced no words. “We are going nuts,” he said. “They (inmates) make frequent demands, from specific non-vegetarian food to air-conditioners.” He said that those who demand specific food have been told to obtain it from elsewhere. “We can’t be dancing to their tunes all the time. It isn’t possible for serve meals according to each inmate’s personal choices.” And food is the least of their demands. “Some want to move into starred hotels, but who will foot the bill?” asked one official. The cost of quarantine for Goans is currently borne by the government, and this has led to another controversy. The official said, “Due to this free quarantine facility offered to returning Goans, seafarers allege they’re being discriminated against.” And adding to the music are politicians, who have spent the last few days meddling in the quarantine system, especially in the cases of sailors currently placed in 14-day facility quarantine. The Goa government’s facility quarantine system includes residencies operated by Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) and some other hotels that the state has requisitioned. Some have also been quarantined at the International Centre Goa in Dona Paula. Officials said that although the condition of GTDC residencies may not be as plush as starred hotels, the accommodation is very decent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-destination-green-zone-quarantine-facilities-run-full/articleshow/75544267.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Ensure coronavirus reports available within 48 hours, Delhi HC tells government||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday asked the Aam Aadmi Party government to ensure that reports of novel coronavirus tests conducted on suspected patients is made available within 24-48 hours. With such a direction, a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad disposed of a PIL seeking directions to the Centre and the state government to ensure swift testing of Covid-19 patients and ensure zero delay in providing the results. Filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, the petition cited TOI news reports to seek the court’s intervention claiming delay in testing was affecting contact tracing, thereby allowing the infection to spread in the capital. Malhotra said media reports showed that over the past month, the number of swab samples pending for tests in Delhi, which started with 470 on April1, had gone up by 7 times and reached 3,295, on April 29. On its part, the government informed the bench that to get faster results, it was sending samples to 23 labs — 13 private and 10 public sector — in the capital and not to Noida. The state government placed before the bench an order issued by the Health and Family Department that said the notification in this regard had been extended by two weeks so that samples be sent within the capital instead of National Institute of Biologicals in Noida, where the testing process was slow leading to increase in pendency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ensure-corona-reports-available-within-48-hours-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/75543588.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Portal for workers launched||Coimbatore: The district revenue department on Sunday launched a registration portal for guest workers, who wish to return to home states. “We have collected details of 70,000 guest workers in industrial units and other places in the district. Whoever is willing to return home can register in the portal,” district revenue officer D Ramadurai Murugan said.The workers can register from wherever they are, the official said. “We have instructed representatives of industries and police to help the workers register.”Representatives of industry associations said the workers have been asking to be sent home whenever transportation resumes. MSME unit workers stay in rented rooms and are being given food and essentials by their employers. After the lockdown was extended, the workers have been asking to go home as they wanted to meet their families.Most of the workers in the district are from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, and have been staying here for at least two years. Industry representatives said they fear that if the workers leave for their homes, they might not return for around three months. This would mean they would lose their skilled workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/portal-for-workers-launched/articleshow/75542523.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 11 new cases, 10 discharged in 24 hours in Bihar||PATNA: Eleven new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bihar on Monday, taking the total number to 528 in the state. This is the lowest one-day count recorded in two weeks. The past three days saw among the highest number of cases with 36 reported on Sunday, 15 on Saturday and 41 positive cases on Friday. However, in a positive development, 10 people recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Now the total number of active cases stand at 395 while four have died so far. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra said the decrease in cases is a good indication. “There is no slowing down in the number of samples being tested, but the number of positive cases have come down today. Recently we were getting 50 to 60 positive cases in a day, however, today’s report comes as a big relief,” she said. Maximum number of cases on Monday were recorded from Jhanjharpur in Madhubani with five people testing positive for the virus, followed by Begusarai and Kaimur with two people testing positive in both districts. One case each from Vidyapati Nagar in Samastipur and Sanachri in West Champaram was also reported. Dr Mishra informed that all five positive cases from Jhanjharpur were of migrants who had recently returned from Noida on a truck. “Even the one from Samastipur had returned from Delhi. We are mainly getting positive cases from migrants who have come back home from other states.” Talking about the inflow of migrants in large number after nod from the Centre, Dr Mishra said, “All those who have arrived were screened and taken to the block level quarantine. Even at the quarantine centre they will be screened daily.” According to the state health society, altogether 28,345 samples had been tested by Monday morning in Bihar. Munger retained the top position with 102 people testing positive. Buxar has second highest positive cases with 56 people infected with the virus, followed by Rohtas with 52, Patna with 44 and Nalanda with 36 positive cases. Sheohar, Sheikhpura and Purnia have reported one case each, while two cases have been reported from Araria and Madhepura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11-new-cases-10-discharged-in-24-hrs-in-bihar/articleshow/75541480.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 5, 2020||Aurangabad||38 new cases in city take dist’s Covid-19 tally to 282||Aurangabad: As many as 38 new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 282 in the district. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Kanan Yelikar said of the 38 patients who tested positive for the contagion, 21 were from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, 15 from Jai Bhim Nagar and one each from Nandanwan Colony and Bajipura. Asked about the spurt in the number of cases from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, where 59 people have contracted the infection so far, municipal officer for health Nita Padalkar said that at first, an elderly woman from the area tested positive for Covid-19. “We have found during our probe that most of the elderly people here had no travel history, nor did they come in contact with any positive case,” said Padalkar. “However, younger people did not follow social distancing and contracted the infection and remained asymptomatic. It is from them that the elders got the infection. Therefore, it is important for everyone to abide by the lockdown rules and observe social distancing,” said Padalkar. According to Mukundwadi corporator Bhausaheb Jagtap, the area is full of slums. “40 people living in rented rooms in one apartment were among the first ones to be infected. Wherever there is tap water supply or garbage collection, people come out of their homes and forget social distancing,” said Jagtap. On Sunday, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed two of the worst affected lanes in the area. Menwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) attributed the spurt in the cases to the vegetable market started by the AMC at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Ground. MNS’ city president Satnam Singh Gulati wrote to the Mukundwadi police station demanding the removal of the vegetable market as it witnessed heavy rush, which was dangerous given the outbreak of Covid-19 in the nearby Sanjay Nagar. Meanwhile, the AMC discharged a large number of people placed in institutional quarantine on Sunday. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said, “As per the new rules, we have been advised to release all suspects if the throat swab samples return negative. The suspects have been advised to follow home-quarantine for 14 days after discharge.” A 15-year-old boy from Baijipura who had contracted the infection was also discharged from the district civil hospital. Of the 282 cases detected so far in Aurangabad, 25 have recovered, nine have died and 248 are undergoing treatment. 2 more test positive in Latur Two more people tested positive for Covid-10 in Udgir, Latur district, on Sunday. Currently, 10 positive patients are undergoing treatment in the district, one has died and eight people have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/38-new-cases-in-city-take-dists-covid-19-tally-to-282/articleshow/75522928.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 5, 2020||India||‘Wage jihad over CAA’: Al-Qaida wing to Indian Muslim scholars||NEW DELHI: Global terrorist outfit Al Qaeda's Middle East wing has released a statement exhorting Indian Muslim "scholars" to come together and wage jihad against India to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act, indicating a fresh effort to radicalise Indian minorities and play on sectarian lines. AQAP (Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula) is mostly active in Saudi Arabia and Yemen and it’s a rare occasion when it has turned its focus towards India, a move which the Indian intelligence agencies are still trying to interpret. Some see it in the context of some Islamic groups in India and abroad campaigning that Muslims are being targeted for the Covid- 19 outbreak after the Tablighi Jamaat incident and feel AQAP could have taken up the "cause" that it sees in religious terms though the message is about CAA. "The Muslim's dignity is in jihad, so fight. Either you live with dignity or die for it. We are asking Indian Muslim scholars to start fighting for their Ummah which is looking forward for their support," the AQAP message said, accusing India and the law of being anti-Muslim. TOI has accessed the three-page statement issued in Arabic which claims that the law was just to take away the citizenship of Muslims. "The entire world is watching and doing nothing about it. When Muslims fight back, the law and the Indian government brutally attack them by using their criminal police and mobs." "The US is supporting India. Donald Trump visited India and got a huge welcome as India aimed to get a green signal from him to attack Muslims," the statement reads. "We, the Qaeda in Arab, condemn the Indian government and announce our support to Muslim brothers. It's an international war against Muslims. So don’t wait for help from Kafir. They won't help or support you. Ask your Muslim scholars and fight back. Protect your religion and families along with Mujahideen," it says. The United States forces had killed its leader Qassim al-Rimi in a counter terrorist operation in February this year. The outfit is now headed by Rimi's deputy, Khalid bin Umar Batarfi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wage-jihad-over-caa-al-qaida-wing-to-indian-muslim-scholars/articleshow/75544836.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
May 5, 2020||Goa||Labourers caught living on barge handed over to Curchorem cops||MARGAO: Curchorem locals on Monday apprehended a group of migrant workers who had made a barge anchored in the Zuari their home for the last nearly six weeks of lockdown. The group of 16 was later handed over to Curchorem police, who referred them for a medical check-up. Sources said that the barge had been anchored at the Khamamol jetty for loading of iron ore for the last couple of months. On Monday, locals noticed some suspicious movement inside it. They then found a large group of persons on board and questioned them. When the replies were unsatisfactory, they called the police. Following their interrogation at the site, police told reporters that the workers had come seeking work before the lockdown . “Once the lockdown was announced, the barge owner is believed to have asked workers to stay inside the barge until the lockdown is lifted, as there was no way they could return home,” a police official said. Police sources said that while the barge owner would be called in for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/labourers-caught-living-on-barge-handed-over-to-cops/articleshow/75544276.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Lawyer wants panchayat-level break up of +ve cases||Chennai: The Madras high court ordered notice to the state government on a PIL seeking break up of all Covid-19 positive cases at village panchayat-level in every district on a daily basis. As of now, such information is being released only at state and district-level through the district collectors and the health ministry of the state. Admitting the plea moved by advocate B Ramkumar Adityan, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana ordered notice to the state returnable by May 12. According to the petitioner, if the authorities could prepare a database of Covid-19 positive cases of all corporations, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats in each district, it will help find where the Covid-19 cases are actually concentrated. This will help the authorities to minimise cost spent on free schemes throughout the district, and instead they can focus on the particular village or town panchayat or municipality. Authorities may be allowed to permit some relaxations in places where there is no hotspot in the districts categorised as red zones, he added. Only then people in non Covid-19 positive areas can return to their routine life and become financially stable, he added. Therefore, the petitioner wanted the state to release daily updates of Covid-19 cases including data of people cured/discharged, number of people under treatment, people in quarantine and deceased in every corporation, municipality, town panchayat and village panchayat in their administrative limit within stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lawyer-wants-panchayat-level-break-up-of-ve-cases/articleshow/75543618.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs restart operations as lockdown restrictions eased||Coimbatore: As lockdown restrictions were relaxed, S Sridhar, owner of a micro jobwork unit at Maniyakarampalayam in the city, reopened the unit on Monday, after more than a month.Sridhar spent the day cleaning the unit and attending to machines, the wiring of which had been gnawed by rats, with the help of one of the five employees, who managed to reach the unit.More than 20% of the industries in rural areas of the district resumed operations on Monday. Police and panchayat officials visited MSMEs in rural areas and advised the owners to follow safety measures such as frequent hand washing, use of hand sanitisers and masks, and personal distancing.However, MSMEs face several hurdles. It will take at least a week to clean up and bring machines back to order. With pre-lockdown orders being low, the industrialists are calling up clients who had given them orders, inquiring whether to carry on with the orders. Half of the orders might get cancelled, they said. With workers from other districts stuck at their homes, the units might also have to face a manpower shortage unless workers are allowed to return. Also, unless transport services resume and they get raw materials on time, they would not be able to carry on operations smoothly.Sridhar, whose unit does rod-cutting jobwork for industry and makes areca plates, said he had three-days’-worth raw material for jobwork and a week’s-worth raw material for plate making. “If transport doesn’t get back on wheels and if we don’t get raw material in time, we can’t start functioning smoothly. During the lockdown period, I managed daily affairs with the Rs 10,000 I had saved. Only one of my clients made payment.”K Balasubramanian, who owns a jobwork unit near Neelambur, said police and panchayat officials had visited his unit and had asked him to follow safety measures. “My unit had 13 employees. But as most of them are stuck in their native places, we started operations with only two people. We could only clean the premises. We have to bring in mechanics to check the circuits and to lubricate the machines, which had been stalled for more than 30 days,” he said.Balasubramanian, whose unit caters to the defence sector and big pump industries, said his clients had asked him to carry out only local orders and not export orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-restart-operations-as-lockdown-restrictions-eased/articleshow/75542534.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||Class X boards to have 2 math levels||Panaji: A new decision of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has come as a relief for students of Class X, who find mathematics tough. Executive council of the board, at its meeting held on Monday, approved a proposal where Class X students can choose between two different levels of mathematics for the public exam. The scheme will come into force from the new academic year 2020-21. As per the proposal, all students will be taught maths as usual upto Class X. Only while answering the exam, they will have the option to choose between two different difficulty levels. Those who want to answer the exam of the higher difficulty level can opt for ‘higher mathematics’ and those who want to answer the exam of a lower difficulty level can opt for ‘mathematics’, said an official. Many students in Goa find mathematics tough, as has been proven by consecutive national achievement surveys. Now, these students, who do not have an inherent interest in mathematics, need not worry about their Class X score dipping only due to performance in this one subject. “Students, who want to opt for humanities, the vocational stream or even commerce, may feel they do not need to know some advanced concepts of mathematics. These students can opt to answer the lower level of the paper. “In the case of students who want to pursue science stream after Class X and pure science in the future, they can opt to answer ‘higher mathematics’,” said the official. In February this year, academic council of Goa Board had discussed the proposal. “This option will be available for the Class X exams only,” the official added. It may be noted that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had decided to introduce two levels of examination in mathematics subject for the students, who appear in the CBSE examination in March 2020. One of these CBSE papers will be known as ‘Mathematics – Standard’ for the existing level of examination, while the other will be known as ‘Mathematics – Basic’ for the easier level of the examination, especially for students who do not want to study the subject in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-x-boards-to-have-2-math-levels/articleshow/75544284.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Contact tracing of 31-yr-old pregnant woman begins||Coimbatore: Two days after a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Saramedu tested positive for Covid-19, health department officials swung into action on Monday and cordoned off the street in Royal Nagar where the woman lives. They tested her family members including her husband, first child, her mother and relatives in her mother’s house in Podanur. Besides, they took close to 80 samples in her neighbourhood, including people above 60 years and those having co-morbid conditions like diabetes and heart issues.“We mainly focussed on the street she lived in, her mother’s house in Podanur and immediate neighbours of both houses,” said a senior corporation official.Officials believe community testing could help trace the source of the woman’s infection. “She was tested because she came for admission... we have tested her family and others to help us know the source,” said the official.Apart from this, the civic body began containment measures in and around Venkatapuram and Kavundampalayam, drawing up a radius of 5 km around where the case was reported and going door to door to check for people with flu symptoms or breathlessness. All frontline staff in these new containment zones are also likely to be tested for the virus in the next couple of days, including policemen, conservancy staff and health workers.Coimbatore Medical College Hospital dean Dr P Kalidas said all 75 people including doctors, PG students, staff nurses and ambulance drivers who were in contact with the 44-year-old cancer patient from Kavundampalayam tested negative for covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contact-tracing-of-31-yr-old-pregnant-woman-begins/articleshow/75542547.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cops prepare database of home-bound migrants||HYDERABAD: On the orders of the state government, police of all three city commissionerates on Monday started enumerating migrant workers to send those wish to go home in special trains. Revenue and police departments are working in tandem in the enumeration process. As per labour department estimates, there are over 3 lakh migrant workers in the state capital. From each police station, a team of constables and some SIs have been entrusted with the duty of locating migrant workers in their jurisdiction. “Our job is to collect details of migrant workers, barring the ones from Andhra Pradesh as they can go by road. We are gathering details of workers, their phone numbers and other details,” said a constable from Punjagutta. There are about 8,000-9,000 migrant workers from North, East and North East Indian states in Punjagutta and SR Nagar areas alone. In the IT zone of the city alone, that falls under Madhapur, Gachibowli, Narsingi and Raidurgam police stations, there are a little over 40,000 migrant workers in organised construction sector and 31,000 workers in non-construction sector. If unorganised workers are also included, there will be more than 1 lakh migrant workers in the IT corridor alone, said a police official of Cyberabad. On Monday morning, government authorities instructed police personnel involved in the enumeration work to gather the details of all migrant workers. Later, the instructions were modified and the cops were asked to gather details of migrant workers who are not involved in construction activity or any other work. “We were asked to gather details of the workers who are not involved in ongoing construction work ,” said a cop from Balanagar industrial area. “The field level cops have been given a link to click on and in the app they have to login with an ID to upload details of migrant workers under 14 fields including name, age, gender, Aadhar card particulars, photo, cell phone number, present location, work, native place and reason for travel,” said a police official from Rachakonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-prepare-database-of-home-bound-migrants/articleshow/75542540.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||Three test positive in Beyt Dwarka||Rajkot: Devbhoomi Dwarka district recorded its first coronavirus cases after three persons tested positive in Beyt Dwarka island off Okha coast on Saturday night. The patients were identified as Karim Chamadia (41), Farzana Jadeja (30) and a 50-year-old woman whose identity could not be ascertained.  “After taking consent from Rajasthan government, we brought all the nine persons back to Beyt Dwarka and put them under home quarantine on Wednesday. We made all of them undergo test, of which Chamadia, Jadeja and the woman tested Covid-19 positive,” said an official from Devbhoomi Dwarka district administration. Devbhoomi Dwarka district collector ordered to seal the entire Beyt Dwarka, which has a population of 8,200. Boat services between Beyt Dwarka and Okha too have been suspended. Only boats with 108 emergency service and medical staff have been allowed to ply. “We are tracing those who may have come in contact with them. We have requested such people to come forward and cooperate with us,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-test-positive-in-beyt-dwarka/articleshow/75522864.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Life limps back to normalcy||Coimbatore: Life limped back to normalcy in the city on Monday with 25% of the shops open and another 30% getting ready to open in the next couple of days. The roads were crowded with men flocking to barbershops and tea shops, and students visiting stationary shops to stock up study materials. Some motorists were seen roaming through the city, enjoying their newfound freedom.By 1pm, policemen forced some shops to down shutters as buyers were not maintaining social distancing norms. Grocery shops and shops selling essentials were allowed to remain open till 5pm.Entry into Arockiasamy Road from Thadagam Road, which was cordoned off because of proximity to two containment zones — Periyasamy Road and Ramachandran Road, was allowed on Monday. Half of the corporation-built and leased shops opened, including those selling sports goods, bathroom fittings, electronics and clothes. As many as 30 men wearing masks were seen queuing up in front of a popular salon and paan shop on the road. Other main roads in the commercial hub also remained open. “Though we don’t expect business to be normal because of the shortage of disposable income, we hope to earn some money,” said Sarfaraz K, manager of a furniture store on T V Samy Road.Owners of bakeries and paan stalls were also upbeat. “Though I was out of business for more than a month, which put my family in debt, I think my business will return to normal soon and my family can slowly get out of trouble,” said the owner of a paan stall on Arockiasamy Road. “However, people should be allowed to move freely,” he added.Clothing stores, accessories stores and baby stores were open on Avinashi Road, Trichy Road and Race Course. However, most of the branded stores, multi-chain parlours and spas remained shut. “More stores will open in the coming days. They still need to arrange transportation for staff,” said a landowner, who had leased space to a multi-chain outlet in Race Course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/life-limps-back-to-normalcy/articleshow/75542568.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Kochi||Kottayam market reopens after 11 days||Kottayam: The market in the town here reopened after 11 days in the early hours of Monday. The market had to be closed on April 23 after a headload worker here was confirmed with Covid-19. Only wholesale shops were allowed to function adhering to strict guidelines issued through an order by the district collector. More relaxations in the functioning are expected in coming days. Trucks carrying fruits, vegetables and fish were allowed into the market during 4-6am while those with grocery items were allowed during 6-8am. A helpdesk formed by the merchants at the entrance to the market from Kodimatha side coordinates the timings and other activities with help from police and municipal officials. Tahsildar P G Rajendra Babu, the incident commander, is overseeing the operations. Trucks arriving at the market are allowed inside after registering at the helpdesk. Details about the vehicle and its staff, the shops were the consignment is unloaded, allotted time, etc, are noted and a pass is issued. The trucks will be disinfected here and the staff subjected to medical test using infra-red thermometer. Arrangements are made at a nearby hospital for staff with symptoms of fever or other health issues. The guidelines also insist that the trucks leave immediately after unloading the goods. Merchants have arranged food parcels for the truck staff and a toilet block in the vegetable market has been earmarked for them. Retail merchants are allowed to buy stock from the wholesale shops from 11am. The vehicles of the retails dealers are also disinfected. Face masks, social distancing, etc, have to be ensured in the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kottayam-market-reopens-after-11-days/articleshow/75541239.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Patna||10-year-old killed for Rs 4,000 in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF : In a heart-wrenching incident, a 10-year-old boy was killed for Rs4,000 his elder brother had owed to the accused in a Nalanda village. His body was found in a sack from a field 20km away from his village Astupur under Parwalpur police station on Monday morning. The accused had slit his neck with a shaving blade and dumped the body in a field under Tharthari police station area in Nalanda district, Parwalpur police station SHO Kunal Kumar said. Three persons, including prime accused Suraj Kumar, have been arrested. Ajit Kumar, the brother of the deceased, said he had a dispute over Rs4,000 with co-villager Suraj, who demanded the money on Sunday. When he expressed his inability to pay, Suraj and his friends abducted his brother and killed him, Ajit alleged. The SHO said the boy’s neck was slit with a shaving blade and the miscreants had packed his body in a sack. He said Suraj and his two other accomplices were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-year-old-killed-for-rs4000-in-nalanda/articleshow/75541500.cms||Farrukh Nadim
May 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Lack of clarity makes migrants throng govt offices for tkt home||PANAJI: The first day of a reopened Goa witnessed stark scenes across the state, as stranded migrant workers made a beeline to various offices looking to register or seek information on how they can reach home. Confusion was rife as imprecise messaging, dysfunctional websites, and a lack of clear directions in Hindi made an already anxious situation worse. At the Tiswadi mamlatdar’s office, Monday morning saw a long line of desperate workers who arrived with their documents in the hope of getting their hands on train tickets to return home. Many of them said that their foremost anxiety isn’t contracting coronavirus, but their future employment prospects and the uncertainty of their return home. Of the 3.5 lakh migrant workers in Goa, 80,000 have already registered themselves with the authorities seeking permission to return home. According to a state government directive, migrants and their families who want to leave can submit an online application (http://goaonline.gov.in) or call state government helplines. While calls to the helpline established for inter-state travel (0832-2419550) went unanswered, many lacked the skills to follow the process of an online application. State government authorities said that the process to collect data from Goan and non-Goan workers who need help travelling is still on, and only after its completion will travel plans be finalised. “People can approach the collector’s office, the local mamlatdar, panchayats or even the police station. We have allowed people to register at various places to avoid crowding,” said an IAS officer when asked about the process for migrants to register for travel back home. Outside the North Goa collector’s office, some workers were turned away and asked to apply online. A list of different state government websites has been put up at the entrance of the collectorate and at the help desk outside the collector’s chamber. Three workers from Karnataka who applied online to return home found that only one of their applications was approved, even though all three followed the same process. Many more are keen to go back to their states, but delays in obtaining NOCs from their respective state governments now pose a hurdle. “Twenty of us live in one rented room,” said Mohammed Aslam from Uttar Pradesh, a daily wage worker at construction sites in Taleigao. “We tried finding work the whole day, but everyone turned us away. Finally, someone told us that they are giving forms here for us to go home.” Echoes of Aslam’s plight resonate among migrant workers across the state. “We have done all formalities till date,” said Kashmiri businessman Javeed Ahmad. “We have filled online forms, given a list of 2,500 people with all details. Some of us have old parents and pregnant wives. Nobody from the Kashmir administration is responding to our pleas. Some of us are even ready to go walking to Kashmir.” Multiple attempts by Aslam to open the uplabour.gov.in website failed, as the portal did not load. A dejected Aslam said that he would visit the collector’s office again on Tuesday. And for Rajesh Patra, who wants to head to Odisha to be with his wife, his Aadhaar card has come in the way. Since the document lists his residence as Jharkhand, his online application was summarily rejected and Patra has no way to convince authorities of his plight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-clarity-makes-migrants-throng-govt-offices-for-tkt-home/articleshow/75544290.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Day 2: Karnataka recovers train, BMTC fares from migrants||BENGALURU: Amid a raging controversy over collection of train fares from migrant workers heading home across the country, Karnataka, for the second consecutive day, made this section of people pay for their travel. Two trains were operated on Monday from Chikkabanavara to Jaipur (Rajasthan) and Malur to Danapur (Bihar). Each carried nearly 1,200 workers. Read the entire story on TOI+'I paid for my journey back home'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/even-on-day-2-ktaka-recovers-train-bmtc-fares-from-migrant-workers/articleshow/75543528.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 5, 2020||Goa||Academic year 2020-21 for colleges from Aug 1||Panaji: The new academic year for existing students in the state’s colleges will begin from August 1, as per recommendations issued last week by the University Grants Commission. For students newly admitted to the first year, the decision regarding the academic calendar will be taken subsequently, Goa University has said. The university will accordingly issue a circular to colleges on May 5. The vacation period for colleges will extend up to May 31 and the current term will extend up to July 31, GU has decided, after discussing the new UGC guidelines with colleges principals. All semester end examinations for the current semester will commence from July 1 onwards. For Bachelor of Arts, Commerce, Computer Applications and Science, including Home Science, the regular third year semester IV examination will be conducted and evaluated by the respective colleges from June 22 onwards. All repeat or supplementary examinations for first year, second year and third year (semester V) students will be held from June 1 onwards, it has been decided. The shortfall of attendance of students will be condoned and attendance will not be an eligibility criterion for appearing for the examinations, college principals have been told. “The timetables for the various examinations in the current semester shall be prepared by the respective colleges depending upon the number of students ensuring that social distancing is maintained. The colleges may conduct the examinations in two or three shifts per day taking into consideration the space and infrastructural facilities available. Project assessment is to be conducted after the lockdown period at the discretion of college principals,” the minutes of the meeting stated. It has been decided that results of semester VI will be declared by July 12 and supplementary examinations for students of semesters II-IV will be conducted seven days after declaration of results. “Only those students who have cleared all their FY and SY papers will be eligible to join the third year. The shortfall of attendance of students who will be admitted to TY after passing in the supplementary examination will be condoned and made up by engaging extra classes in view of the late admissions due to the supplementary examinations,” the decision stated. Colleges shall conduct all the semester end examinations, including repeat examinations, and submit the marks to the examination section (of Goa University), the varsity has told colleges. “The duration of each examination will be of maximum two hours. Question papers will be set and assessed by the respective teacher teaching the paper/course,” the minutes of the meeting read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/academic-year-2020-21-for-colleges-from-aug-1/articleshow/75544307.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Goa||As Goa reopens, some head out for work, others for a haircut and a beer||PANAJI: The state’s usual hustle and bustle, missing for over a month, returned on Monday as the government reopened the state for business. With the Centre significantly relaxing movement curbs as part of lockdown 3.0, private offices reopened and residents rushed out of their homes. With liquor retailers opening after more than a month, thirsty tipplers quickly queued up for their favourite poison outside retail stores. Bars and restaurants remained closed as per the Centre’s guidelines. “More than 2,000 retail shops, wholesale and manufacturing units started operation on Monday by following social distancing and the message of ‘No Mask, No Liquor’,” said excise commissioner Amit Satija. Salons and barber shops too opened up on Monday, and saw a rush of customers looking for a shave and a haircut. The absence of private buses served as a dampener for commuters and employees, who had to rely on personal vehicles or wait for buses operated by Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL). Even though the state lifted most of the curbs, people continued to maintain queues with adequate distance outside grocery stores, banks and telecom operators. However, vegetable and fruit markets, which were thrown open after a month, saw many people letting their guard down. People were seen chatting and catching up with acquaintances with masks lowered. Central and government offices saw stronger attendance as the state directed employees to return to work. Many departments took stock of the pending work and focused on clearing pending files and granting extensions for certain approvals. Employees were seen waiting in the evening for transport to go home and even asking for lifts, as the lack of private buses made life difficult for commuters. Taxis too were seen on the streets with customers, even as Goa Police maintained a watchful eye on traffic movement. Police personnel continued to screen vehicles and crack down on traffic violations. With Goa being declared as a green zone, the state government has allowed all commercial activity to restart barring casinos, bars, river cruises, restaurants, malls and movie theatres. However, a few stores selling automotive spare parts, garments, hardware tools and novelty items remained shut. With the North and South Goa collectors imposing Section 144 CrPC and prohibiting the movement of people between 7pm and 7am, stores downed their shutters quickly in the evening to allow their staff to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-goa-reopens-some-head-out-for-work-others-for-a-haircut-and-a-beer/articleshow/75544303.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Households, domestic staff keep distance in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The question on the eve of relaxation in the lockdown norms was whether housing societies would allow domestic workers, plumbers, electricians and others of the sort to enter their complexes. As things showed on Monday, neither side need have been overly worried. While the home services workforce gave the residences a miss fearing infection, the households, for the same reason, continued to carry out domestic chores on their own. In S Block of Greater Kailash I in south Delhi, the RWA recorded the arrival of just 25 workers on Monday. “We have 1,100 households, and 400-500 women work in these homes, but to our surprise only 25 turned up and that too only in the houses of senior citizens and some working couples,” said M K Gupta, RWA president. “We had opened one gate for their entry and arranged for hand sanitisers and masks for them.” Plumber Rizi Khan said his wife hadn’t allowed him outside. “My employer had asking me since yesterday to come back to work, but since we have two kids, my wife asked me not to leave home. I didn’t argue with her because I too am worried for my family’s safety,” Khan said. In Defence Colony, electrician Daya Ram was at his shop on Monday, but there was no summons from any of the houses there. “In normal times, each day we were called to least five houses. But today when I have come to work after a long time, there are no takers,” Ram said. “I think people are still too scared of the infection to call outsiders to their houses.” Sumitra, a domestic worker in Preet Vihar, was wringing her hands after the family she worked with told her not to come. She has five mouths to feed and hasn’t earned anything in two months, so was eager to resume work. The 47-year-old claimed to have used up all her saving and was left with just Rs 200. “I came here to get back my job, but madam asked me to go back. I took a bath just before coming here, but she said she couldn’t allow me to enter the house because I may be infected,” said the desperate woman. Rubu Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Vihar RWA in south Delhi, were among those who had decided that they should avoid domestic service staff for some more days. “There were no clear-cut guidelines on RWAs having the authority to stop entry of service people. But yes, being a residents’ association, we felt we had to minimise footfall in our colony and so issued an advisory on Sunday requesting everyone to avoid calling in domestic staff,” Makhija said. The RWA expected resistance to the idea, but except for some families, there was general agreement. About 17 societies of Dwarka also took a joint decision to defer entry to domestic workers till May 17. “Thankfully, 90% of the houses supported this. Some families weren’t keen, but we are trying to help them while explaining to them why this was necessary,” said Sudha Sinha, president, CGHS Societies, Dwarka. There were some, of course, who were glad to have help after over a month of self-service. Vimla Rani said that her employer in Virendra Nagar of west Delhi had been patiently awaiting the day when the lockdown would be relaxed. “She knows that I and my family have hygienic habits. So she had zero qualms about calling me back for work,” Rani said. Aarti Goel in A Block of southeast Delhi’s Sarita Vihar said families in her locality were impatient about the workers returning to work. “For 40 days, everything was okay in our block,” she said. “But after the government allowed home staff to work again, I am seeing people gathering on roads, discussing problems they are facing due to the absence of workers.” Meanwhile, around 30 plumbers, electricians, labourers and domestic workers, going home to Banda in UP on Monday, told TOI they were walking home to avoid exposure to the novel coronavirus. They didn’t want to cope with both the fear of infection and the demands of their landlords for rent. “We are better off at home,” asserted Rambabu, who makes Rs 6,000 a month in west Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/households-domestic-staff-keep-distance/articleshow/75543648.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Guv tells govt to continue ‘aggressive’ testing tactic||Chennai: Against the backdrop of huge spike in cases in the state, Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday told chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his government to continue the ‘aggressive and extensive’ testing strategy adopted by the state. Palaniswami will hold a review meeting at 11am on Tuesday in Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation, on the Covid-19 situation. On an invite, Palaniswami met with Purohit at Raj Bhavan and held discussion for 45 minutes. He was accompanied by health minister C Vijayabaskar, chief secretary K Shanmugam, director general of police J K Tripathy and senior bureaucrats. “The officials explained why the cases are higher, and that it is due to extensive and aggressive testing. The governor told them to continue the strategy. The officials also informed about the relaxations that have come into effect from Monday across the state,” said a source. The governor had a briefing by the CM-led team ahead of his report to the Union home ministry. The government is of the view that its extensive testing resulted in more positive cases, while other states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, were doing tests for symptomatic cases. “In Chennai, at least 98% of Covid-19 positive cases are asymptomatic,” an official said. Palaniswami will hold a review meeting with over 40 officers in the rank of IAS and IPS officers, district revenue officers, and officials from the local body and health and family welfare department to ensure management of containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guv-tells-govt-to-continue-aggressive-testing-tactic/articleshow/75543627.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Govt to reverse order mandating temples to donate for Covid relief||Chennai: Bowing to public opposition, the Tamil Nadu government has dropped its April 24 circular asking 47 big temples in the state to contribute their ‘surplus funds’ to chief minister’s relief fund for Covid-19 relief measures. The state government informed the Madras high court on Monday that it decided to withdraw the circular mandating temples managed by the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department to contribute substantial amount from their surplus fund to the chief minister relief fund. The submission came after a PIL filed by R R Gopaljee, publisher of Tamil daily Dinamalar, came up for hearing before a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana. “The circular is likely to be withdrawn and the department is not insisting on any such contribution from temples,” HR&CE department’s counsel M Karthikeyan, said to the bench. Recording the submission, the judges said: “Therefore, the matter is adjourned to May 8 and on that day, Karthikeyan may produce the relevant order passed by the commissioner of the department in this regard withdrawing the circular. In the meanwhile, the department shall not act upon the circular, against the temples included in the said circular.” According to Gopaljee, the HR&CE commissioner had illegally issued a circular directing the temples in the categories specified to mandatorily contribute substantial amount from their surplus fund to the chief minister public relief fund. “The commissioner has no authority to issue such a circular and mandate compulsory contribution. Temples have been closed for two months and there is no flow of revenue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-reverse-order-mandating-temples-to-donate-for-covid-relief/articleshow/75543635.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||30% industrial units restart in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Amid worries of an economic crisis during Covid-19, small and medium scale units in Telangana have begun functioning by maintaining social distancing norms. Permissions have been given to companies in SEZ and industrial estates in urban and rural areas to start the manufacturing process. There are about 15,000 small and medium manufacturing units in and around Hyderabad. K Sudhir Reddy of Telangana Industries Federation (TIF) said 30% units have started functioning. “We are maintaining strict social distancing norms and other guidelines issued by the central and state governments. Body temperature of workers and employees is checked before they enter the premises. We are providing masks, handwash and sanitisers. We are also keeping a record for verification by enforcement officials,” he told TOI. However, an official order on the industrial units is expected only after Tuesday’s state cabinet meeting. No permission had been given to the units functioning in residential areas. Very small units with one or two workers may be asked to function with workers staying inside the premises, sources said. Workers can travel from far distances, but they will have to carry a letter with the company seal and the route map. Companies can carry out despatches as there is no restriction on invoicing with way bills. But, workers will not be allowed to go out during lunch breaks. TIF has asked the units to make staggered lunch arrangements. “They have been advised to not allow aged workers for duties,” sources said. Officials have warned that permission would be cancelled if guidelines are not followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-industrial-units-restart/articleshow/75542628.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Spare govt docs,nurses: KGMOA||Thiruvananthapuram: Government doctors are opposing a proposal that would see many of them being posted on Covid-19 screening duty at airports, railway stations and state borders after lockdown. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) has urged the government to spare doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff of government hospitals from screening duty at these points since it would affect the functioning of government hospitals. As part of the post lockdown strategy, the health department has decided to deploy doctors, nurses and trained volunteers at these screening points. There are also plan to deploy doctors for house visits to monitor those in home quarantine. "It is humanly impossible to do house-to-house visits when there will be a heavy flow of passengers. Doctors will not be able to carry out such activities. Already, doctors – who were put on screening duties at airports – were asked to go on 14-day quarantine. Imagine a large number of doctors going on quarantine," said KGMOA general secretary Dr GS Vijayakrishnan. "Our demand is that doctors should be taken by national health mission on contract basis for this duty. Centre is providing funds to NHM to meet such emergencies," he said. Already, doctors are stressed being on Covid-19 cure and prevention duty for two months. It is not right to send them again for screening duties at the border and railway stations. A reserve team of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff should be kept since the post-lockdown scenario will not be the same. KGMOA said only in Kerala the cases have come down but when borders open, the situation will change and we will need the service of more doctors. At present, there are nearly 6,000 doctors in the health service, which will not be sufficient, said KGMOA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/spare-govt-docsnurses-kgmoa/articleshow/75541290.cms||Rajiv G
May 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Power minister seeks to pull plug on truant employees||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday said he would propose to chief minister Pramod Sawant that a compulsory retirement scheme (CRS) be introduced for all non-performing employees of the electricity department. He also lashed out against political interference in his department. “Politicians intervene on behalf of some employees in the department and ask that they be given other posts (desk jobs). I myself get calls seeking that certain staff be posted at power stations only. Does that mean I should climb the electricity poles?” Cabral said. The minister, however, refused to state the number of non-performing employees in the department. He said that although there was a different department and a protocol to act against employees who shirk duty, not a single worker has been suspended and subsequently terminated from service. “We have rules and regulations in place. We have the administrative reforms department (ARD) and the personnel department. But show me one employee who has been suspended and then terminated,” Cabral said. “If the chief minister gives me a free hand to handle my departments, I will act.” He said that during the last recruitment drive for the power department, he had refused to employ workers who were on contract and were not able to climb electricity poles. ‘No concession on domestic bills’ Power minister Nilesh Cabral said there would be no concession of power bills for domestic consumers. “Ever since the lockdown was enforced, there has been a spike in energy consumption because people have had to stay at home. Due to this, the department has been facing problems and hence cannot give benefits to domestic consumers,” he said. Electricity bills of hotels, which are usually raised on the first day of each month, have not yet been raised, Cabral said. “I will speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard and will proceed accordingly,” he said. The power minister also said he has moved a proposal to bring all streetlights under the purview of the electricity department. Presently, only 60% of streetlights are being maintained by the department while the rest are looked after by various other authorities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-min-seeks-to-pull-plug-on-truant-employees/articleshow/75544311.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hospital MD, 2 doctors held for gender test||HYDERABAD: A managing director of a private hospital in Uppal and two doctors were arrested by Uppal police on Monday on the charges of conducting a sex determination test on a pregnant woman. Rachakonda police said the accused MD V Anjaneyulu and doctors -- J Raghava Reddy and Shravani -- were arrested after they allegedly conducted the sex determination test by collecting Rs 15,000 from a pregnant woman constable, who was sent as a decoy, in an operation organised by the district medical & health officer and Rachakonda police. “`The woman cops approached Dr Shravani for sex determination examination, for which she demanded Rs 15,000. Dr Raghava Reddy conducted the scanning and disclosed the gender of the baby to the cop. The decoy team immediately apprehended the doctors, the MD and seized Rs 15,000, ultrasound scanning machine and mobile phones,’’ police said in a press note. Police said Dr Raghava Reddy had been arrested in the past for his alleged role in a similar offence in Yacharam police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-md-2-docs-held-for-gender-test/articleshow/75542616.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Nashik||Barricades to check people entering city to continue||Nashik: The city police said that putting up checkpoints and barricading roads would continue to keep a check on people trying to enter the city without valid permission though the state government had announced certain relaxations in the red zone areas.  On Monday, after the relaxation in the lockdown, a large number of people came out on the streets. The police, however, continued with putting up checkpoints, not allowing people to move from certain parts of the city without a valid reason. The roads were barricaded as it was before the announcement. Vishwas Nangare Patil, the commissioner of police, Nashik city, said, “We will continue to keep a check on motorists to ensure that they are not moving around without a valid reason in order to contain the spread of the infection.” “At the same time, the sealing points on the outskirts of the city would also not be lifted until the lockdown is over,” he said. A large number of motorists from the Malegaon have not been allowed to enter the city. The special police teams are ensuring that the police personnel do not let motorists enter the city without a valid reason and pass for the same. Patil said that teams of police officials are conducting decoy operations at all the sealing points of the city to check the style of functioning of the police personnel deployed there. He said that the police personnel were performing their duties sincerely without getting pressurised or lured by the offers that were made to them by the decoy teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/barricades-to-check-people-entering-city-to-continue/articleshow/75541269.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||‘It’s a farce’: Migrants lash out at red tape||MUMBAI: “This whole thing is a farce. Finally, the only way to get home will be on foot,” said a frustrated Mohammed Hanif who had lined up for five hours at Kajupada police station in Saki Naka to submit his travel form, but in vain. This was his second attempt to leave the city. He had tried to drive out in a truck soon after the lockdown was announced in March, but was sent back from Powai. “There was such a crowd on Monday that the police hit us on our legs with sticks. They told us to leave and said they would not accept our forms today,” said Hanif. DCP Pranay Ashok refuted the allegation. “We are accepting whatever forms are being submitted, irrespective of the destination state,” said Ashok while denying any lathi charge in the city. In Pune, the police resorted to a “mild lathi charge” after a crowd of 500 to 600 migrants gathered at Warje police station to fill the forms and blocked the road. Over the past few days, 35,000 migrant workers in relief camps have been sent to their home states, said officials. But the demand is much higher. By Monday, Mumbai had received 35,000 applications and Pune 15,502. As queues outside police stations swell, the anger and frustration among migrants is palpable. Many complained the forms they submitted at police stations were rejected for minor errors after they had waited half a day to submit them. Or, they were told to fill an altogether new form. “If this continues, a huge crowd of us from Jharkhand will go and sit outside a railway station,” said Altaf Khan from Khairani Road in Andheri (East). “I spent 10 hours getting a medical certificate yesterday. But the police did not take the application, saying there is some new form now,” said Altaf. “Police rejected my employee’s form, saying the surname was wrong. Another was rejected because the destination Banda district was not found,” said Imran Khan, a social worker from Sewree. Migrants from UP are also upset with chief minister Yogi Adityanath after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said the state is reluctant to take its migrants from the western state. “Other states like Rajasthan, Gujarat and Punjab have sent vehicles to take their migrants and here our own chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, is creating hurdles. Now where will we go?” asked UP migrant Shaukat Shaikh from Dharavi. Many are asking why they are being made to pay for travel home “when the government has evacuated Indians from abroad and students from Kota free of charge”. “It’s because we are poor and we have no voice,” said Altaf. Most daily wagers have not earned any income since the lockdown and cannot afford to pay for their journey home. Mainul Haq from West Bengal’s Murshidabad has decided to wait it out in Mumbai. “I don’t even have Rs 20 left. I only eat once a day when social workers distribute food. What is the point of filling the form when I cannot pay for the ticket?” asked the daily wager who used to work on construction sites. (With inputs from Girish Shelke & Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-a-farce-migrants-lash-out-at-red-tape/articleshow/75543639.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 5, 2020||Goa||Panaji market to reopen on Wednesday on odd-even cycle||PANAJI: After weeks of downing their shutters, the gates of the Panaji municipal market will reopen on Wednesday with an odd-even schedule. The Panaji Municipal Market Tenants’ Association has been drawing out a plan which will be submitted to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) for approval. The shops will open on an odd-even schedule wherein only 50% stores will operate on a given day. “The shops, marked by the tenants’ association, will open on alternate days. Accordingly, the stores will function,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. After the janata curfew was imposed on March 22, the state capital’s market had downed its shutters and only opened briefly during the extended curfew two days later. However, the gates of the market complex were sealed after the nationwide lockdown was announced. There are approximately 400 shops inside the complex, of which about 200 are fruit, flower and vegetable vendors. The vegetable vendors are already being accommodated outside the market complex since last week and will not be shifted back inside to their kiosks, the mayor said. “The vegetable vendors will continue to sell items outside the complex till the lockdown ends. Only mobile repair shop, masala sellers, rice and pulses stores and others inside the market complex will be opened. CCP inspectors and police personnel will monitor the situation,” Madkaikar said. “Buyers will not be permitted to purchase commodities without a mask. To ensure sanitation, we have sanitized the market complex on Monday evening.” he said. In addition to this, shops situated in the market area outside the complex will also continue to be operational in the odd-even format. The market will be operational from 8am to 6pm every day, till the lockdown ends. Pan kiosks set up outside Hotel Kamat, Miramar circle, Hotel Fidalgo, next to Neurekar building and other spots will be removed. “Anyone selling tobacco items will be fined Rs 2,000 and those found chewing tobacco items will be fined Rs 200,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-market-to-reopen-wed-on-odd-even-cycle/articleshow/75544314.cms||Nida Sayed
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Park row: Residents, officials file complaints against each other in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Rock blasting and felling of trees at a park at HUDA Enclave has brought residents and officials in direct confrontation with both sides filing complaints against each other with police over the weekend. Residents said they are not against the need for a road, they are only questioning the manner in which work is being taken up. The residents said that around 100 trees had been bulldozed in the park and blasted rocks being dumped there. They also raised concerns over damage to their properties due to the blasting. “Acts of continuous blasts establish their (officials and contractors’) criminal intensions. (They are) causing damage to homes,” they complained. Speaking to TOI. residents said the matter escalated when they approached the chief engineer, HRDCL. They alleged that the officer was rude. They later found out that HRDCL had also filed a complaint for “obstruction” of government activities. Speaking to TOI, chief engineer, HRDCL, C Vasantha reiterated that they had permission to carry out the works. “The residents had stopped our machines from carrying out any work. We were forced to file a police complaint. Now, the work is almost complete,” she said.  “The road work has permission from the government. However, we will conduct a detailed inquiry,” SHO S Ravinder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/park-row-residents-officials-file-plaints-against-each-other/articleshow/75542636.cms||Uttara Varma
May 5, 2020||Mumbai||30 busloads of labourers leave Mumbai for home states||MUMBAI: Private bus operators in Mumbai got bookings and permissions on Monday to transport migrants in 30 buses to Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Telangana by late night. “In the coming days, we expect to operate 200 buses daily for migrants,” said Malik Patel from Mumbai Bus Malak Sanghatana. While the migrants will have to pay exorbitant bus fares from their own pockets, many have come forward and said they are willing to shell out Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000 to get a bus seat back to their hometowns. “I had saved. I will use the money to return to my village near Kota in Rajasthan,” said a migrant who works as a painter and will pay nearly Rs 4,000 for his ticket. Migrants like him have come together to form groups of 25 to book a bus before going for medical certificates and police permissions. A bus operator said buses for other states would mean paying road taxes on entry. “There is no clarity from the government so far. If we have to pay the tax for crossing the border. This would mean additional expenses for migrants,” he said. For example, the tax to be paid for entering another state and using its roads for the journey could range from Rs 150 to Rs 500 per seat. “So if it is a 50-seater, irrespective of the number of passengers, the cost could be Rs 7,500 to Rs 25,000 per bus,” he said. In case of UP, buses will cross three state borders and will have to pay maximum Rs 75,000 per bus for road taxes. Buses are likely to depart for intra-state travel too. State transport commissioner Shekhar Channe said the onus was on migrants to decide the mode of transport. “If the person or group wants to travel by bus, they will have to bear the cost of to-and-fro journey of the entire bus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-busloads-of-labourers-leave-city-for-home-states/articleshow/75543676.cms||Somit Sen
May 5, 2020||Goa||Class IX to get new geography textbook||Panaji: Students of Class IX will be learning about Goa’s Western Ghats, the Mhadei and many other such local geography topics from the new academic year. The executive council of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Monday approved implementation of the new geography textbook for the class from 2020-21. Goa Board officials said that the textbook has been revised to add more topics on regional geography. The entire textbook has been overhauled too and approved for implementation after work of over three years in preparation of its content. “The editorial team of the board itself has prepared the new textbook. Work on the textbook was on for the last three years and a lot of work has gone into preparing it. The new content has been reviewed by experts and college professors, who have provided very positive feedback,” a Goa Board executive council member said. Similarly, a new geography textbook is also nearly ready for Class X as well. But in the case of Class X, the new textbook is likely to be implemented from the academic year 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-ix-to-get-new-geography-textbook/articleshow/75544319.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Rajkot||It’s back to business in green zones of Saurashtra||Rajkot: Shops and establishment green and orange zones opened on Monday after over 40 days of lockdown in various parts of Saurashtra. Markets in Junagadh, Amreli, Jamnagar, Morbi and Porbandar opened on Monday and witnessed heavy footfall of people. While the third phase of the national lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus spread began on Monday, the state government had on Sunday issued guidelines about lockdown relaxations in different zones - red, orange and green - marked on the basis of severity of the Covid-19 situation. After remaining indoors for about 40 days, people in different parts of the state came out in large numbers for shopping in markets or to resume their work, bringing a semblance of normalcy outside the coronavirus hotspots. The district administrations allowed shops of non-essential commodities to open from 7am to 7pm. The factories in industrial areas and clusters were also allowed the function. However, the public transport in cities was yet to resume. According to various district administrations sweet shops, laundry, hair cutting salons, jewellery shops, cloth shops and other shops selling non-essential commodities remained open. Theatres, malls and restaurants have not been permitted to resume operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/its-back-to-business-in-green-zones-of-saurashtra/articleshow/75541346.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Chennai||Former secy to APJ moves PIL seeking info on testing labs||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the Centre and the state government on a PIL seeking a detailed report on the availability of Covid-19 testing facilities in the country, including Tamil Nadu, and to ramp up the testing rapidly. Admitting the plea moved by former President A P J Abdul Kalam's secretary V Ponraj, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana directed the governments to file their replies in a week. According to the petitioner, as per the Viral Research & Diagnostic Laboratories Scheme (VRDLs) formulated by the central government in 2013, VRDLs (Viral Research & Diagnostic Laboratories) has to be established throughout the country. "The scheme entails establishment of 10 regional level labs, 30 state level labs and 120 medical college level labs in the state government medical colleges at Rs 646.83 crore," the petitioner said. The status of this important scheme is totally in dark and if it was properly executed, our country has no need to depend upon China for purchasing kits, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-secy-to-apj-moves-pil-seeking-info-on-testing-labs/articleshow/75543669.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||How are you eligible to get 5-acre plot, HC asks N Shankar||HYDERABAD: The high court on Monday gave a final opportunity to film director N Shankar to explain how he stood eligible to get a 5-acre land plot in a prime area at Sankarpalli near Manikonda in Hyderabad from the state at a throwaway price. The high court bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice Vijaysen Reddy also made it clear that since he did not avail the opportunity to either personally explain his case or explain it through his counsel, the bench would soon decide the case without hearing him if he still prefers to remain silent. Appearing for petitioner J Shankar, an unemployed youth from Karimnagar who challenged the allotment, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy said that the state doled out the crores worth of land for just Rs 5 lakh per acre.  This is not the sole case, where state has shown such needless benevolence, there are scores of such allotments and several of them were questioned and are pending before the high court, he said. The high court bench directed the registry to tag all of them and said that it would hear them together. The state has to justify these allotments, the bench said before posting the case to two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-are-you-eligible-to-get-5-acre-plot-hc-asks-shankar/articleshow/75542654.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Only 34 active cases in state, 61 more tested negative||Thiruvananthapuram: The state has only 34 more active Covid-19 cases with 61 people testing negative on Monday. No positive case was reported on a day that saw Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Malappuram become Covid-free districts. As many as 21,724 persons have been placed under surveillance, of which, 21,352 are under home isolation and 372 admitted to designated isolation facilities. To date, 33,010 samples (including augmented samples) have been sent for testing, out of which 32,315 came as negative. Apart from that 2,431 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers, etc. as part of sentinel surveillance, of which 1,846 samples tested negative. Test results of 61 patients under treatment have been declared negative, out of which 19 are from Kannur (one Kasaragod native), 12 from Kottayam, 11 from Idukki (Palakkad Native), nine from Kollam, four from Kozhikode (one Kannur Native) and two each from Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, and Kasaragod. Now only eight districts in the state have active cases admitted to hospitals. Kannur has more active cases with 18 people under treatment, followed by six in Kottayam, three each in Kollam and Kasargod and one each in Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Palakkad, and Wayanad. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it is an achievement that the state could check the spread of the virus. He said those who are stranded in different districts and want to go back to their native places or for work can apply for the passes at the local police stations where they are residing now. Steps are on to bring back the people who are stranded at Lakshadweep also. All the automobile workshops and car showrooms can function in all places except containment zones. There is no need for the shops and establishments to get the certificates from the local bodies to open. Those who are on the list announced by the state government can open their shops. Initiatives to attract  large-scale investments To attract large-scale investments and to make the state a preferred investment destination, CM Vijayan announced a slew of initiatives to boost investments. “The Covid pandemic opens up new possibilities for the state. The extraordinary way in which we handled this outbreak has made the state one of the safest and secure industrial investment centres in the world. We are getting a lot of enquiries from investors and entrepreneurs from around the world who are interested in Kerala,’’ he said. Industrial licences and permits will be issued within one week of application. Multimodal logistics centres will be established in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kannur. Logistics parks will be set up in the state. Azheekal Port will be developed to address the demands of north Kerala. The port will be equipped to handle large amounts of cargo. Value-added products will be promoted in agriculture sector. Land at Palakkad Mega Food Park will be leased out to industrialists for making value-added agro products. A coconut park will be established in north Kerala with an emphasis on value-added products. A star rating system will be introduced for investments. The gold, silver and bronze positions will be awarded in terms of investment and generated employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/only-34-active-cases-in-state-61-more-tested-negative/articleshow/75541338.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown3.0: Commuting an issue, private offices largely empty in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Though Delhi government has allowed private offices to operate with 33% staff, very few offices saw resumption of work on Monday. Most of the offices were empty of people. The Central Plaza of Nehru Place, one of the busiest commercial and office complexes in the city, was deserted on Monday. There wasn’t much sign of life in the many office ‘towers’ at the sprawling complex either. “Some of our colleagues are working from home and those living in NCR areas have been exempted from coming to office. Among staff living in Delhi, only those who have cars or two-wheelers will be able to come,” said Amit Verma* who works for a private insurance company. On Monday, he walked till his office in Nehru Place from his Ambedkar Nagar residence. “We are mainly clearing backlog at the moment,” he added. Many offices were getting sanitised. “From floor to furniture, everything is being sanitised. We have been told that some staff members will start joining work from tomorrow,” said Baburam, housekeeping staff at an export house. At the entrance of the building where the office is located, security guards have been armed with thermal scanners to check every visitor. The office buildings at Bhikaji Cama Place were looking even more desolate. Apart from people coming to the banks and the MTNL office, a few hopefuls were looking for a wine shop in the area which was closed. At Connaught Place, the office buildings lining Barakhamba Road and Kasturba Gandhi Marg were also largely empty. Only a few bank branches were operational. Sumeet Raina, owner of Radius Systems Pvt Ltd, said they resumed operations on Monday with around 7-8 people. The premises was sanitised first and only people from Delhi who had private vehicles were called to work. “We aren’t using centralised air-conditioner and the staff members have been asked to use masks and regularly sanitise their hands,” Raina added. Ambuj Tiwari, a 25-year-old lawyer who was called to work on Monday said the premises was being sanitised when he reached. “Since ours is a litigation firm, there is not much work right now and it can be managed from home,” said Tiwari, who reached his office in Jangpura Extension from Mayur Vihar. Koushik Banerjee, owner at Smart Web Solutions in Janakpuri–an IT company, however, said that they were planning to wait for a few more days before taking a call on returning to the office. “We have to figure out how to manage social distancing and hygiene. Employees may also face problems in commuting,” he added. (*Name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commuting-an-issue-pvt-offices-largely-empty/articleshow/75543685.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Ensure distancing, stay stocked up, Delhi cops tell liquor shop owners||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has issued a set of guidelines for liquor shopowners to check crowding outside their vends. As per the guidelines, the shopowners must ensure social distancing and the stores should be well-stocked to cater to the spurt in liquor demand. The shops should also have QR codes-enabled payment systems and multiple swiping machines for cards to avoid hassles and delays in accepting payments. Police personnel are likely to be deployed near these vends to ensure that there is no illegal sale of liquor nearby. The guidelines have been issued in the wake of the chaos that erupted at liquor shops across Delhi on Monday. The guidelines mention that wine shopowners should draw the waiting spot circles outside their shops so that the buyers can maintain more than one metre distance from each other. The shopowners have also been asked to deploy a staff who can ask customers to maintain social distancing via a public address system. The shop managers have been asked to place a dustbin outside their shops too so that there is no littering or spitting by the buyers while they are waiting in the queue. Anyone found spitting will be booked. “A liquor shop may be closed down if cops find the buyers unruly and not maintaining social distance,” said a cop. The DCPs of all districts have been asked to keep a reserve force on standby which can be deployed in case of worsening law and order situations. Police have asked the liquor shopowners to install CCTVs so that the miscreants can be tracked down easily by the cops in case of a ruckus. The shopowners have also been directed to ensure that their staff members go through a health check-up before the vends are opened for the public. Any one showing symptoms of fever or cough should not be allowed to come to the shop, the guidelines say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ensure-distancing-stay-stocked-up-cops-tell-liquor-shop-owners/articleshow/75565217.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two Apeejay branches sealed, management says matter in HC||NEW DELHI: The education department late on Monday sealed two branches of Apeejay School at Saket and Sheikh Sarai for allegedly violating the directions of the government against fee hike. ADM (South) approved the sealing action on May 1. Deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia also ordered registering of an FIR against the school management. The government order read, “It has been reported that the management of Apeejay School Saket and Sheikh Sarai are not complying with the directions issued by the education department and violating directions by way of unauthorised fee hike.” An order signed by deputy director (education), South district, Arvind Kumar, said, “The competent authority has permitted to lodge an FIR and to seal the school buildings for such inhuman acts being committed by the society/management running these schools in the prevailing situation of social emergency.” On April 18, the education department had ordered private schools to not increase fees during the lockdown period, irrespective of the institution being built on government or private land. With Disaster Management Act, 2005 being in force, the schools were also ordered to charge tuition fees on a monthly basis and prohibited from levying other heads, like annual fee, development fee and transportation. The schools were also told that they couldn’t keep any student out of online classes and that teachers would have to be paid their full salary. Earlier, parents had complained about these violations to the education department following which a notice was issued asking schools to abide with all the provisions of Disaster Management Act and Delhi School Education Rules, 1973. Failure to comply would be punishable with up to one-year imprisonment or fine or both. TOI had reported about the issues. Issuing similar statements, both schools said that they were on the right side of the law and the interest of students was paramount to them. “Our writ petition is pending adjudication in the high court and we expect a favourable outcome. Regarding fees, all actions of our school are in conformity with communications received from the Directorate of Education. We have all requisite approvals from DoE to charge AY 2019-20 fee. We have certainly not forced or harassed parents to pay the fees. In fact, we held out a helping hand to those in need with scholarships,” added the statement. Apeejay claimed that majority of parents had already paid the fees. “Only a handful of parents have been complaining, motivated by vested interests. Unfortunately, the current force majeure situation has again promoted them to agitate on the fee issue, which has resulted in the current situation,” it added. The school also claimed that access to online classes was being given to all students. “There could have been some technical glitches causing some disruptions. All issues have been resolved and students are receiving online education without any interruption. Access was given to all irrespective of whether they had paid the fees or not,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-apeejay-branches-sealed-mgmt-says-matter-in-hc/articleshow/75543713.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Sanitise SSLC exam halls, min tells officials||Bengaluru: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar has directed all deputy directors of public instruction (DDPIs) to begin preparations for SSLC exams. In a video conference, he directed officials to ensure social-distancing norms in exam centres, cap the number of students per hall at 24, increase the number of rooms, provide sanitisers to students and ensure thermal screening before they enter the exam hall. Reserved classrooms for students developing fever will also have to be kept ready. The preparations must be done depending on the zonal classification of the area in which the exam centre is located. No exams will be carried out in containment zones. Relocation of test centres in containment zones, setting up of sub-centres, CCTV cameras in each exam hall and health facilities at each centre are being looked into. Students who have relocated to other places should be given a chance to write the test from the neighbouring exam centre, he said. While SSLC revision classes through DD Chandana have been a hit, there has also been a demand for English-medium classes. Content is being created for that and it will be telecast soon, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sanitise-sslc-exam-halls-min-tells-officials/articleshow/75543689.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Bengaluru||In 11 districts, coronavirus cases doubled faster than Karnataka average||BENGALURU: Covid-19 cases in more than 50% of the affected districts in Karnataka are doubling at a rate faster than the state average, which on Sunday night stood at 17 days. This is seven days more than the national average. Analysis of 18 of the 20 affected districts in Karnataka shows Bengaluru Urban takes 16 days for cases to double, while 10 other districts — Ballari, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Gadag, Vijayapura, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Tumakuru and Davangere — take between two and 16 days. Uttara Kannada and Udupi have the best rates, taking as many as 37 and 35 days, respectively, for cases to double, while Bidar, Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Rural, Mysuru and Dharwad take between 20 and 35 days. Karnataka is doing better than 17 states, while Goa has the best rate at 34 days. Meghalaya, Haryana, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Kerala and Manipur are states and UTs that are better than Karnataka. The states that compare poorly with Karnataka take anywhere between one and 15 days for cases to double. Punjab (2), Chandigarh (4), Bihar (8), Jharkhand (8), Gujarat (9) and Maharashtra (9) are states that take less than 10 days for cases to double, while the national average is 10 days. Tests per millionAlso, Karnataka is now conducting more than 1,000 tests per million (TPM), joining 8 other states in the country to do so. As on Sunday, the state was conducting 1,141 TPM, better than the national average (939). Delhi, with 3,475 TPM is performing the best, followed by Andhra Pradesh (2,187). West Bengal with just 230 TPM is the worst, while Bihar, Assam and Jharkhand too are doing below 400 TPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-11-dists-covid-19-cases-doubled-faster-than-state-avg/articleshow/75543660.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Shiva’s deep dive amidst lockdown saves many lives in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: While the lockdown has invoked the spirit of charity and goodwill among numerous individuals and organisations, for Shiva Ilias Hanumanth it is still business as usual. Shiva is carrying on with his efforts to save those who jump into the Hussainsagar lake to end their life or prevent them from taking the extreme step. In case he’s unable to save them, he recovers their bodies while risking his own life. The ‘unofficial Baywatch guard’ of Hussainsagar, Shiva has saved over 100 lives in and around the lake and continues to do so. He has so far retrieved over 15 bodies and saved three persons who attempted suicide during the lockdown. “One of the men whom I saved was a 70-year-old TB patient. He jumped into the water a few days ago in the afternoon. I jumped into the water and pulled him out. I spoke to him, counselled him and sent him home,” said Shiva. Even if he fails to save a life, he helps recover the bodies. Even when the positive cases of coronavirus have increased in the city, Shiva continues to retrieve the bodies without any safety gear. “I am aware of the risks involved,” he says nonchalantly. That no safety gear is provided to him by the officials is not a deterrent. Shiva lost two brothers to drowning. “I try to save as many people as I can from the lake. Even police are aware of the risk. With the lockdown in place, there are hardly any jobs. But, they (cops) call me to recover the bodies from the lake,” says Shiva. It has been over a decade since Shiva had lost his adopted brother Pavan, who died in an attempt to save a suicide victim. Since then, Shiva has made it a mission to save people. But, he hardly makes any money from the what he does. He doesn’t ask for a fee or reward either. Shiva takes whatever police officials offer him voluntarily. “A police officer has ensured that my three sons get residential school education. Some officials offer food,” he says. As the lake water is dirty, a resident of Secunderabad has donated 10 cans of drinking water. Even though he has a shortage of food and drinking water, he has made it a point to share his food with stray dogs. “Some eight to 10 dogs are staying with us. I have kept three drinking water cans aside for the dogs and pigeons and share whatever food I eat with them,” said Shiva. Shiva, his wife and another son along with 20 others reside in a shed near a temple around the lake area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shivas-deep-dive-amidst-lockdown-saves-many-lives/articleshow/75542664.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||State-sponsored evacuation free for migrants, says Jharkhand CM||RANCHI: Amid the controversy over reports of railways charging stranded labourers for ferrying them back to their home states, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday that his government will bear the fares of migrant workers who want to leave the state and stranded Jharkhand residents returning to their home towns in special trains arranged by the state government. Soren said, “We are clear that we will not take a single penny from labourers and students who are being brought back to the state. Two days ago, I had also requested the railway minister to not charge poor states like us for ferrying stranded migrants. The railways earns highest revenues from this state and in times of crisis, no money should be charged from us. But I don’t know what is the Union government’s decision regarding this issue. Notably, the railways, it seems, has enough money to donate over Rs 100 crores to the PM Cares fund.” The state government, however, said it will not interfere in policies adopted by other states on sending back migrants to Jharkhand. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, while saying that his Congress party, will bear the fares of those who are needy, also demanded that the Centre should bear the cost of transporting labourers. The Union government, on the other hand, came out with a clarification stating that the cost of running special trains will be shared on a 85:15 ratio between the Centre and the state concerned. On Monday, over 1,100 migrants reached Dhanbad in a special train from Kozhikode. Many labourers, who had boarded that train, alleged that they had to pay Rs 800 to the railways for tickets. Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, announced that his party will bear the travel expenses of the migrants returning to Jharkhand, if the state government finds it difficult to pay the amount. He said, “The state government is giving undertakings to railways and the sender state on a case-to-case basis of bearing the cost of bringing back our labourers. But the railways and the Centre should completely waive off any such charges as states like us are already in a difficult financial spot.” Citing a policy decision taken at the Congress’s central level, Oraon added, “Our national president Sonia Gandhi has already announced that the party will bear the travel costs of migrants. The Jharkhand unit of the party will follow the instructions given by the national leadership.” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey added, “We are going to set up helpline numbers for migrant labourers in every district.” Jharkhand Janadhikaar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella organisation of rights groups, too, asked the Union government to foot the bill for inter-state movement of workers. “The government should ensure that private travel operators do not exploit the workers,” said JJM in a communiqué, adding that the government should pay labourers half of their monthly wages for the next three months. It also demanded that the Jharkhand government notify a clear protocol for getting the stranded workers back, among others. Sources in the state transport department said the Telangana government had paid the expenses of running the first Shramik Special train that brought 1,200 migrants from the southern state to Hatia on May 1. Whereas, the cost of plying two trains that brought around 2,000 students from Kota to Hatia and Dhanbad on Saturday and Sunday, respectively, was borne by the Jharkhand government. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar, who is also the nodal officer for coordinating the return of migrants, said, “Some states have decided to charge money for sending the migrants back and we can’t intervene in their policy matters. The Jharkhand government, however, has taken a policy decision to not charge anything from the labourers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-sponsored-evacuation-free-for-migrants-says-jharkhand-cm/articleshow/75542136.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Lightning kills 3 kids in Palamu||Daltonganj: Three children died when they were struck by lightning at Khura Khurd village in Palamu district on Monday afternoon. Chainpur OC Sunit Kumar said Akash Oraon (11), Mohit Kumar (9) and Vikas Thakur (12) were playing in an abandoned shed when the incident occurred. The bodies have been sent to Palamu Medical College and Hospital for autopsy. While the state weather department had issued an alert for lightning in the region, most poor families do not have access to such alerts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lightning-kills-3-kids-in-palamu/articleshow/75540922.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Strict protocols in place for migrants, says Jharkhand official||Ranchi: Around 6,000 persons, including migrant labourers and students, returned to state in the last four days and the state government has enforced strict protocols to screen and conduct surveillance on all of them. Talking to TOI, assistant state transport nodal officer cum transport commissioner, Faiz-ak-Ahmed Mumtaz, said, “With four lakh migrants expected to arrive in Jharkhand via rail and road, we have placed strict protocols for their movement, surveillance and screening to contain the virus spread.” Mumtaz said the state government is working round-the-clock and is co-ordinating the process right from registration of the stranded people till they are sent home or to institutional quarantine. He said, “The migrants are supposed to fill a form issued by state government, which included their home addresses with proof based on which they are added to the travellers’ list and provided with permission to travel. Besides, each traveller is thermally screened at his or her point of origin and at their destinations. Soon after their arrival at their respective districts, they are examined by health department teams and are suggested home or institutional quarantine.” To ensure that migrants do not violate the quarantine advice, surveillance protocols have also been put in place till block levels in co-ordination with sahiyas and elected representatives so that infected persons are screened and do not spread the viral infection. Apart from trains, several districts, including Deoghar, Garhwa and Sahebganj and Dumka, also dispatched buses to neighbouring states to ferry migrants back home. The respective district administrations have issued guidelines and protocols for the bus journeys which include listing the details of all travelers and conducting of screening and medical examination. Talking to TOI, Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay said, “I have received the first bunch of students from Kota on Sunday who reached Deoghar via Dhanbad. Moreover, we have sent three buses to Raipur and Cuttack and they are expected to return on Monday night or Tuesday morning. Apart from screening at boarding and destinations, I have personally instructed all those who returned to refrain from violating quarantine rules as we are going to continue with strict surveillance on all of them. If anyone is found violating home quarantine rules, we will immediately transfer them to institutional quarantine.” Sahay further said, “We have deployed Asha and health workers in each block to conduct random checks in villages in co-ordination with local panchayat nominees to ensure that nobody tries to violate their quarantine period.” Meanwhile, a train carrying 1,200 labourers from Tiruvananthpuram was diverted to Jasidih in Deoghar as more than 80% of the occupants were from Santahl Pargana division. The train was set to reach Ranchi by Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/strict-protocols-in-place-for-migrants-says-jharkhand-official/articleshow/75541405.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||22-year-old held for rape||DUMKA: A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a homeless woman on Friday when she was sleeping with her disabled husband and child in her makeshift shelter near a bus stand, police said on Monday. “The woman said the accused, Amit Kumar Tiwari, sneaked into the shelter and raped her,” Dumka SP Ambar Lakra said. he added that Amit is a rickshaw-puller and had theft cases lodged against him in 2014 and 2016 and was even sent to jail. The woman’s medical examination was conducted on Saturday and her statement will be recorded before amagistrate after the court reopens. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/22-year-old-held-for-rape/articleshow/75540945.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||No fresh Covid-19 case in Jharkhand for second day as testing rate falls||RANCHI: Jharkhand did not report a single new Covid-19 case for the second consecutive day on Monday, but sources said this could be deceptive as the number of tests being conducted fell significantly once the microbiology department at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) was shut down for four days on May 1 after a lab technician tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 30 A total of 1,870 samples were tested in the state between May 1 and 4, compared to 2,318 tests conducted in the four days prior to the closure — a deficit of 448 samples. Rims is the biggest testing facility in the state and most samples from Ranchi, Jharkhand’s only red zone, were being tested here. For the last four days, all the samples are being tested at just three centres. On April 30, a total of 680 samples werepending at Rims. Of these, 350-odd have been cleared from MGM hospital in Jamsedpur and T B Sanatorium in Itki. The results of 330 samples are pending. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said they will resume testing at Rims on Tuesday and will try to clear the backlog in two days. “We have received ICMR’s approval to resume tests at Rims. We will start testing samples at full strength from Tuesday.” Kulkarni added, “A total of 479 samples were tested on Monday and all are negative. No patient recovered and the death toll stands at two,” said Kulkarni. The state’s coronavirus tally stays pegged at 115, of which 85 are active and 28 have made a full recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/no-fresh-covid-case-in-jharkhand-for-2nd-day-as-testing-rate-falls/articleshow/75552472.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||In a first, no animal killed in Jharkhand tribal hunting festival||JAMSHEDPUR: For the first time in living memory, not a single animal was killed in the state on Bishnu Sendra Parva, an annual hunting festival observed by tribals of Jharkhand and the neighbouring Odisha and West Bengal, Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) and forest officials said on Monday. Adivasis observed the centuries-old festival without leaving their houses as Jharkhand continued with a complete lockdown across the state. Chief minister Hemant Soren has not given any relaxation in any part of the state even though 12 of 24 districts have not reported a single Covid-19 case. With the lockdown continuing, many tribal hunters could not reach the forests to observe the festival. Divisional forest officer (DFO) of the sanctuary, Chandramouli Prasad Sinha said small groups of tribal villagers from Dalma foothills arrived to offer prayers carrying traditional weapons and there was no report of killing of wild animals till Monday evening. Sinha said, “We have not lowered our guard. Our patrolling teams are doing their jobs and foresters are keeping an eye on the 14 entry points to the sanctuary.” He added that making the tribal devotees follow social distancing norms while they are carrying out the rituals was one of their priorities. Jamshedpur DFO Abhishek Kumar said many regular hunters have not ventured into the forest, but some adivasis reached the fringes from Chakulia, Baharagora, Dhalbhumgarh and Ghatshila areas. He added, “Our teams have seized animal traps from a few places, but there is no report of any animal being killed.” A DWS official said even though the footfall is low this year, the authorities have to wait till the late hours to be certain that no animal has been killed. “Tribals usually go for hunting after dark. We will find out if they killed any animal only when they return from the forests,” he added. The Dalma Buru Sendra Samiti (DBSS), the main organiser of the festival, had earlier said that the festival will be observed without any fanfare. DBSS functionary Rakesh Hembram said, “Ahead of the festival, we had appealed to the people to observe the festival only by offering prayers.” In the past, adivasis have protested against forester’s trying to stop them from hunting Sendra claiming that the festival is a custom and no law can prevent them from following it. Forest officials also never admit that animals were hunted down on Sendra. Tribal activist Mukesh Birua said hunting on Sendra is not a crime against nature as adivasis know how to live in sync with their surroundings. “It is our custom. We never invade the core forest area and only hunt animals in the buffer zone. While Santhal tribals take up the annual ritual of hunting animals one day, others, including Ho and Oraon tribes, observe this festival for a month so that every village gets a chance to hunt down a few animals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/no-animal-killed-in-tribal-hunting-festival/articleshow/75542060.cms||B Sridhar
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand launches three rural schemes for jobless migrants||Ranchi: Three days after the first batch of stranded migrants returned to the state, chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday launched three employment schemes for more than six lakh migrant labourers who are returning to the state in a phased manner. Aimed at reviving the rural economy which has been hit badly by the ongoing lockdown, the three new schemes — Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, Neelambar Pitambar jal Sammridhi Yojana and Poto Ho Khel Vikas Yojana — will be run by the rural development department under the MNREGA mission. Chief minister Hemant Soren, while launching the schemes from Project Building, said “Besides offering jobs to the rural population, all these schemes are devised keeping the long-term goals of sustainable development and creating new assets in the state.” He added, “The government is committed towards the welfare of its citizens, especially the vulnerable ST/ SC communities, women workforce in rural areas and the economically backward households.” State rural development department secretary Avinash Kumar said all the schemes are tailor-made using the state’s resources and integrating a few central MNREGA schemes. “The Birsa Harit Gram Yojana aims to use over two lakh acres of unused government fallow land for afforestation. Around five lakh families will be given nearly 100 fruit bearing plants and the initial plantation, maintenance, land work and afforestation works will be taken up through MNREGA. Over five crore fruit bearing plants are expected to be planted in the next few months,” he added. He further said, “The USP of this scheme is that the person engaged in planting such trees and taking its care will be reaping the benefits of the produce. We shall work to develop market linkages for them. Each family is estimated to receive an annual income of Rs 50,000 every year. The ownership of the land, however, will remain with government.” Neelambar Pitambar Jal Sammridhi Yojana is aimed at water conservation, ground water recharging, creation of agro-water storage units to store rainwater and runaway ground water. Kumar said, “Districts which face perennial water problems, such as Palamu, will benefit the most.” Poto Ho Khel Vikas Scheme is linking sports with rural job schemes for creation of assets in the rural areas in order to give a boost to sports. About 5,000 sports grounds are being planned to be set up, with one each in all the 4,300 panchayats. The low-key launch ceremony on Monday was attended by rural development minister Alamgir Alam, water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur and a host of other senior administrative officials. All the dignitaries were seen maintaining the social distancing norms at the launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-launches-three-rural-schemes-for-jobless-migrants/articleshow/75541347.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||No fresh Covid-19 case in Jharkhand for second day as testing rate falls||RANCHI: Jharkhand did not report a single new Covid-19 case for the second consecutive day on Monday, but sources said this could be deceptive as the number of tests being conducted fell significantly once the microbiology department at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) was shut down for four days on May 1 after a lab technician tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 30 A total of 1,870 samples were tested in the state between May 1 and 4, compared to 2,318 tests conducted in the four days prior to the closure — a deficit of 448 samples. Rims is the biggest testing facility in the state and most samples from Ranchi, Jharkhand’s only red zone, were being tested here. For the last four days, all the samples are being tested at just three centres. On April 30, a total of 680 samples werepending at Rims. Of these, 350-odd have been cleared from MGM hospital in Jamsedpur and T B Sanatorium in Itki. The results of 330 samples are pending. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said they will resume testing at Rims on Tuesday and will try to clear the backlog in two days. “We have received ICMR’s approval to resume tests at Rims. We will start testing samples at full strength from Tuesday.” Kulkarni added, “A total of 479 samples were tested on Monday and all are negative. No patient recovered and the death toll stands at two,” said Kulkarni. The state’s coronavirus tally stays pegged at 115, of which 85 are active and 28 have made a full recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-fresh-covid-case-in-jharkhand-for-2nd-day-as-testing-rate-falls/articleshow/75541938.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Police manoeuvre strategy to make lockdown effective||Ranchi: From screening films, singing songs to registering FIRs, police have resorted to various measures to enforce the lockdown in the state. Notably, during the early phase of the nationwide lockdown, all major police stations in the state capital showed an hour-long movie to lockdown violators to spread awareness on the subject. Apart from playing audio messages at important intersections, Ranchi police put up posters in residential areas to educate people on ways to prevent Covid-19 infection. The city cops even visited banks to urge customers to make online transactions. In other districts like Hazaribag and Dhanbad, cops dressed up like the mythical figure, Yamraj, to make people realise the magnitude of the Covid-19 pandemic. Their stance, however, became tougher when the number of Covid-19 cases started rising in the state. After issuing several appeals to obey the lockdown, police began registering FIRs against the violators. According to official figures, police have registered 1,474 cases related to lockdown violation across the state, and arrested 3,134 persons. The maximum number of cases has been lodged in Ranchi, where the figure is 281. Jharkhand police spokesman and inspector Ggneral Saket Singh said, “Police have adopted various methods to ensure that people do not come out unnecessarily. Many cases lodged during the lockdown are related to serious offences.” Besides, police are also explaining the importance of staying indoors to people found loitering on the streets. In certain cases, they are making violators do sit-ups and undertake written pledges to not break lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-manoeuvre-strategy-to-make-lockdown-effective/articleshow/75541702.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||After 40 days, dialysis facility resumes at Dumka hosp||Dumka: After more than a month, dialysis facilities resumed Dumka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Monday. The facility was shut after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. The hospital had earlier said being exposed to the novel could have been dangerous for kidney patients. Now, separate entry and exit points have been been made at DMCH for non-virus patients. Earlier, the district administration had made alternative arrangements for 33 kidney patients here by setting up dialysis facilities at a private hospital in Deoghar and arranged ambulances for taking them there, especially for those who needed dialysis thrice a week. Some even had to hire private vehicles to go to Deoghar, 70km from Dumka. “The facility resumed at DMCH on Monday. The patients do not have to go to Deoghar for dialysis,” Dumka civil surgeon Dr A K Jha said. Expressing relief, one of the patients’ relative said, “We had to go through a lot to reach Deoghar during the lockdown. Private cars were not available and drivers were hesitant to travel even short distances. Deoghar has Covid-19 cases and no one really wanted to go there. In addition, once we reached Sanjivani Hospital in Deoghar, we had to wait for hours for our turn owing to the limited capacity.” Last week, BJP’s Dumka MP Sunil Soren informed chief minister Hemant Soren about the difficulties kidney patients were facing at a video-conferencing session. DC Rajeshwari B had said the cost of establishing a new dialysis facility would exorbitant and it would take two months to install the required medical set-up. “We had no choice but to shift the patients to the hospital in Deoghar,” she had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-40-days-dialysis-facility-resumes-at-dumka-hosp/articleshow/75540901.cms||---
May 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand plans second line of defence against Covid-19||RANCHI: With the fight against Covid 19 becoming long drawn and frontline health workers facing the risk of being infected, the state government is now planning a second line of defence against the virus, by recruiting more health workers. On Monday, the state health mission’s human resources cell floated advertisements seeking applications for the post of microbiologists to man Jharkhand’s four Covid-19 sample testing facilities in Ranchi, Itki, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. The move comes within a week after a lab technician at Rims’ microbiology department tested positive for the virus. Avani Prasad, the nodal officer of National Health Mission’s Jharkhand human resources cell, said, “With health workers facing the risk of being infected, we will need more manpower in the coming days. Hence, a second line of microbiologists will be prepared.” He said the state health department plans to hire around 12 microbiologists on a contract basis for a period of three to eight months. The aspirants need to be under 55 years of age and bonafide state residents. At present, the testing centers at Rims microbiology department in Ranchi, PMCH in Dhanbad, MGMMCH in Jamshedpur and Itki TB Sanitorium have 10 microbiologists in total. With the high number of samples, the scarce manpower is stretched to its functional limits, health officials said. At a meeting of doctors with chief minister Hemant Soren last month, Rims director Dr D K Singh had sought more manpower for the Rims testing facility. Besides hiring microbiologists on contract, the department also plans to press 273 paramedics as volunteers in the Covid-19 duty. The paramedics, all Jharkhand residents, are stationed across various parts of the country. Departmental officials said they have recently sought Union health ministry’s clearance in using their services. Apart from paramedics, hospital managers and data entry operators are also likely to be hired. However, the department’s efforts can be hit by apprehension of job security and low salary amounts among the applicants. Most recently, the South Eastern Railways’ Ranchi division had advertised for hiring doctors on contract for three months to man its Covid isolation facility in Hatia and the 60 isolation coaches. However, none turned up. Conceding it as a hindrance in the department’s plans, an official said, “Let’s see. We can only hope for the best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-plans-second-line-of-defence-against-covid-19/articleshow/75552488.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand plans second line of defence against Covid-19||RANCHI: With the fight against Covid 19 becoming long drawn and frontline health workers facing the risk of being infected, the state government is now planning a second line of defence against the virus, by recruiting more health workers. On Monday, the state health mission’s human resources cell floated advertisements seeking applications for the post of microbiologists to man Jharkhand’s four Covid-19 sample testing facilities in Ranchi, Itki, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. The move comes within a week after a lab technician at Rims’ microbiology department tested positive for the virus. Avani Prasad, the nodal officer of National Health Mission’s Jharkhand human resources cell, said, “With health workers facing the risk of being infected, we will need more manpower in the coming days. Hence, a second line of microbiologists will be prepared.” He said the state health department plans to hire around 12 microbiologists on a contract basis for a period of three to eight months. The aspirants need to be under 55 years of age and bonafide state residents. At present, the testing centers at Rims microbiology department in Ranchi, PMCH in Dhanbad, MGMMCH in Jamshedpur and Itki TB Sanitorium have 10 microbiologists in total. With the high number of samples, the scarce manpower is stretched to its functional limits, health officials said. At a meeting of doctors with chief minister Hemant Soren last month, Rims director Dr D K Singh had sought more manpower for the Rims testing facility. Besides hiring microbiologists on contract, the department also plans to press 273 paramedics as volunteers in the Covid-19 duty. The paramedics, all Jharkhand residents, are stationed across various parts of the country. Departmental officials said they have recently sought Union health ministry’s clearance in using their services. Apart from paramedics, hospital managers and data entry operators are also likely to be hired. However, the department’s efforts can be hit by apprehension of job security and low salary amounts among the applicants. Most recently, the South Eastern Railways’ Ranchi division had advertised for hiring doctors on contract for three months to man its Covid isolation facility in Hatia and the 60 isolation coaches. However, none turned up. Conceding it as a hindrance in the department’s plans, an official said, “Let’s see. We can only hope for the best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-plans-second-line-of-defence-against-covid-19/articleshow/75541835.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Scientist denied entry into Bengal, former MLA gives shelter||Ranchi: A Kolkata man, who was returning home from Jharkhand after training technicians of the state’s Covid-19 sample testing facilities, was not allowed to enter West Bengal. After being turned back, Ayan Dutta sought refuge in the home of former Baharagora legislator Kunal Sarangi in the early hours of Monday. Dutta, a resident of Maheshtala in the suburbs of Kolkata, was allowed by the West Bengal government to come to Jharkhand and install new automated RNA extraction machines at the state’s Covid-19 testing facilities in Dhanbad’s Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and Itki TB Sanitorium. Dutta reached Dhanbad on May 1 and reached Ranchi the next day. On Tuesday evening, Dutta left for Kolkata from Jamshedpur after training the lab technicians of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) on ways to test blood and swab samples for Covid-19. Dutta is a scientist at a German firm which manufactures RT-PCR machines that are used for Covid-19 testing. Speaking to TOI over phone from Baharagora, Dutta said: “Our car was stopped for inspection by West Bengal police at the inter-state border at Jamboni in Jhargram district around 9.30pm. I gave the cops my pass, which was issued by Jharkhand government’s health department. But the cops refused to accept the pass and turned us back.” Dutta said they rang up East Singhbhum deputy commissioner and SSP seeking help. “Ruling that the matter was out of their purview, SSP said he informed Jhargram SP to take necessary steps. But with nothing moving, we turned back and got in touch with Sarangi with some help from my colleagues in Ranchi. The former legislator was generous to give us shelter at his Baharagora home around 1.30am on Monday,” he added. Sarangi took to Twitter on Monday morning, urging West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren to help Dutta return home. “I spoke to chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and he assured me that he is taking up the matter with his West Bengal counterpart,” Sarangi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/scientist-denied-entry-into-bengal-former-mla-gives-shelter/articleshow/75540837.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Cops stressed, but motivated to implement anti-virus norms||RANCHI: Engaged in long work hours, sometimes without food and water, police personnel deployed Covid-19 duties in the state are dealing with enormous stress and anxiety, but they are not complaining. For them, saving people from the pandemic is enough motivation to keep going. Officers said anti-Covid duty is an entirely new experience for the force whose main job until a couple of months ago, was to control crime. In the last forty days, they have been on the field to enforce the lockdown and help healthcare teams with surveillance and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential items for people in containment zones. Jitendra Kumar, a constable posted at Doranda police station, said, “There is no time schedule and we don’t knpw hen we will get back home once we leave for work. There are days when we are out on the streets for 12 hours without any food.” He said their job is challenging, but the appreciation people shower on the police force keeps their morale high. Baloo Kumar, another constable, said the pressure gets to him when people refuse to obey the lockdown norms. “The main weapon in the hands of the police these days is persuasion. We try to cajole and coax people to follow social distancing, but we face tough challenge from locals in certain areas,” he said. Staying away from family is also keeping several cops on the tenterhooks. City SP Saurav said the police department is worried about the mental and physical wellbeing of its personnel and several measures have been taken to address their problems. He said, “Senior officers are regularly interacting with cops deployed in Hindpiri, the Covid-19 hotspot in the heart of Ranchi, to know about the difficulties they face and their and requirements. We are keeping all the cops posted in Hindpiri together so that they could boost each other’s morale.” Meanwhile, senior consultant and neuro psychiatrist Siddharth Sinha said working under conditions when there is real threat of getting infected will naturally cause mental stress among police personnel. “If needed, they should be sent for a mental health check-up after they are withdrawn from duty,” he added. Jharkhand Police Association president Yogendra Singh said, “Even the traffic police is overworked as they are sometime kept standing at their posts for more than 12 hours. I will soon meet the traffic SP in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-stressed-but-motivated-to-implement-anti-virus-norms/articleshow/75541759.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 5, 2020||Ranchi||Refused admission at pvt hosp, Ranchi woman loses unborn baby||Ranchi: A women suffered a miscarriage on Sunday night after a private hospital in Ranchi’s Harmu locality refused to admit her and healthcare staff remained absent at the state-run hospitals. Sources said not a single healthcare worker was available at sadar hospital when she reached there. After waiting for 45 minutes, she visited an urban health training centre at Doranda locality, designated to help pregnant women, but the on-duty doctor was missing, delaying her treatment by a further 30 minutes. The woman’s husband Vinay Murmu, “Soon after the hospital in Harmu refused to admit her, I took her to sadar hospital, but not a single person was available there. After waiting for 45 minutes, I took her to the Doranda centre, but the doctor who was supposed to be on duty was not present,” said. Even though heath minister Banna Gupta on Monday criticised the doctors at Doranda and sadar hospital and directed department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to investigate the matter, the plight of pregnant women continued. A nine-month pregnant woman was refused admission at the Doranda centre because she did not have a Covid-19 negative report. “The nurses refused to admit her and told us to visit Rims for a Covid-19 test. Even after her swab samples were collected with the help of the district administration official, doctors at sadar hospital refused to admit her. We have no choice but to return home,” said Saraswati Devi, the woman’s mother in-law. Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said: “We have taken cognisance of the issue and have directed the district officials to ensure that a sample collection team is stationed at the Doranda centre. We will issue show-cause notices to the private hospitals that refused to admit the patients.” Even though chief minister Hemant Soren has instructed that out-patient departments (OPDs) in private and public hospitals should remain open to prevent a medical crisis, private hospitals in the city continue to refuse patients, As many as eight people have died due to this in the last month. On April 25, the state health authorities had announced that an Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team from Ranchi will be deployed at Doranda centre to collect swab samples of pregnant woman visiting the centre before they are admitted, but neither the team nor the on-duty doctor were available when the patient arrived. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad did not respond to TOI’s calls or text messages. In the last month, a 14-year-old girl from Hindpiri died after she was refused scheduled dialysis by a leading private hospital as she didn’t have a Covid-19 test report. Five other critically ill patients died in the city due to the hesitance of private hospitals in providing them admission. Most of them were patients who needed dialysis. Two miscarriages have also been reported due to refusal of admission to pregnant women at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/refused-admission-at-pvt-hosp-ranchi-woman-loses-unborn-baby/articleshow/75540804.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 5, 2020||India||India protests Pak SC order on polls in Gilgit-Baltistan||NEW DELHI: After a Pakistan Supreme Court ruling allowing holding of elections in Gilgit-Baltistan, India Monday hit back against efforts to, as it said, bring material change in territories illegally occupied by Pakistan and asked it to vacate the same. The foreign ministry said in a statement that it had demarched a senior Pakistan diplomat and lodged a strong protest with Pakistan against its Supreme Court order. ``It was clearly conveyed that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. The Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it,’’ said the MEA. India also completely rejected such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu & Kashmir. ``Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,’’ it added. The government also conveyed to the Pakistani diplomat that such actions can neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan occupied territories for the past seven decades. It said India’s position in the matter is reflected in the resolution passed by the Parliament in 1994 by consensus which emphasised that “Jammu and Kashmir was an integral part of India, and that Pakistan must vacate parts of the same under its occupation’’. In a recent ruling, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed the government to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. Later on Monday, Pakistan responded by summoning a senior Indian diplomat in Islamabad to convey its rejection of what it called India''s "baseless and fallacious contention" regarding the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-protests-pak-sc-order-on-polls-in-gilgit-baltistan/articleshow/75544839.cms||---
May 5, 2020||India||Didi running ‘syndicates’: Bengal Governor hits back||KOLKATA: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday described Bengal as an emerging “police state” and blamed chief minister Mamata Banerjee for running “syndicates”. This is purportedly in response to the charge levelled by Mamata on Saturday that the governor was busy trying to “usurp powers” when the state government was trying to fight a pandemic. Dhankhar’s attacks on her and her ministerial colleagues had no parallel in the country’s constitutional history, Banerjee wrote. Dhankhar once again repeated the concerns raised by opposition parties over the “collapsing health sector” and “diversion of free rations” and other issues relating to disposal of bodies. “Who in the state is usurper and extra-constitutional fountain of power? Who runs government and syndicates? It’s an open secret,” he said in his letter. West Bengal was emerging as “a police state” with anyone posting uncharitable comments on social media “getting a police knock”, he said. “Political victimisation is on (an) incremental trajectory.” Trinamool seniors from Delhi — Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Derek O’Brien and Dinesh Trivedi — dismissed the governor’s allegations, without mentioning his letter. The Centre had sent only a health team to Kolkata whereas it had sent multiple teams to Delhi and Maharashtra, they reminded the state government’s critics. “Why is one team being sent to Bengal? It is because the situation in other parts of the state is under control. Bengal, along with Kerala, is a model in terms of setting up quarantine centres and Covid hospitals. We are now busy fighting Covid-19 and are not keeping track of what the governor, a former BJP MP, tweets,” Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader O’Brien said. The party’s Lok Sabha leader Bandyopadhyay said: “We do not attach much importance to the governor’s blabber.” Former railway minister Dinesh Trivedi pointed to the more “pressing problem” of the plight of migrant workers who had been asked to pay a part of the train fare back home. “The railways have donated Rs 175 crore to the PM Cares Fund. The Centre should use this fund to bring back the migrant workers free of cost,” the former Trinamool MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didi-running-syndicates-bengal-governor-hits-back/articleshow/75544856.cms||---
