May 6, 2020||---||Sporting Clube won’t stand in way of players wanting to move out||Panaji: Sporting Clube de Goa are uncertain when they will return to the top tier of Indian football. But whether it happens sooner or later, the club’s talented crop of players will be free to grab opportunities of moving up the rank. Sporting were among the consistent performers in the I-League until they protested the roadmap prepared by the All India Football Federation (AIFF) in 2016. Along with Salgaocar FC and Dempo SC, Sporting opted out of the I-League – then the top tier – but held on to most of their prized assets. “Following Sporting’s withdrawal from I-League, the club uniquely maintained its entire team, along with the player’s contracted salary which was then based on I-League standards,” said former CEO Victor Fernandes. The likes of Victorino Fernandes, Cajetan Fernandes, Joseph Clemente, Marcus Mascarenhas, Peter Carvalho and till last season, Glan Martins, were among the higher-profile players at the club, who continued to earn much more than many of their counterparts who played in higher leagues. The recent move of Glan, now with Churchill Brothers, to ATK has brought back the focus on Sporting with the midfielder’s comments that he “just couldn’t move” due to his contract, upsetting the club. “The club policy has always been very clear. We will not stand in the way of a player’s better prospects by way of a transfer to a higher level, particularly ISL. On the contrary, we would facilitate the same,” said the former CEO. Victor has been an integral part of Sporting for nearly two decades and retired as CEO at the end of last season. Having seen the club grow, he put things in perspective. “Many times, Sporting gets portrayed as the villain who do not allow players to move out. The truth is completely the opposite. Even with Glan, who we signed after paying a substantial transfer fee (to Sesa FA in 2014), we never denied him the opportunity to progress to a higher level,” he said. Glan, among the better-paid players at the club, was first allowed to move out on loan to Minerva Punjab FC in 2016-2017 but, out of his comfort zone, the talented midfielder couldn’t adjust and returned to Goa. The success of Sporting’s player development policy, Victor said, can be gauged by the fact that five players -- Adil Khan, Kamaljit Singh, Rowllin Borges, Brandon Fernandes and Subashish Bose – who are permanent members of the national team at the moment were all introduced to the I-League by Sporting, while Seriton Fernandes is now on the verge of joining the list. Players like Victorino, Subashish, Ponif Vaz, Ravi Kumar, Kamaljit, Clement and Seriton were all loaned to ISL and I League clubs, followed by some permanent transfers. Victor said players like Rowllin, Joyner Lourenco, Mackroy Peixoto, Standley Fernandes, Akeraj Martins and Jovel Martins provide enough proof of Sporting’s successful youth set-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/goa/news/sporting-clube-wont-stand-in-way-of-players-wanting-to-move-out/articleshow/75563795.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Third member of family tests coronavirus positive in Boloor||MANGALURU: The third member of a family in Boloor, in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Designated P-658 in the state bulletin, the patient is a 51-year-old, and the son-in-law of P-536, the patient zero of this Boloor family. Incidentally, P-579, the husband of P-536, too had tested positive on May 1. The trio are undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid hospital in Dakshina Kannada. The day’s development saw Dakshina Kannada placed 11th in the state for Covid-19 patients, with 10 active cases. A total 19 residents of the district have been afflicted with Covid-19 so far. Dakshina Kannada also had six Covid-19 patients from outside the district, but they were treated at the designated hospital here. The district has recorded three deaths due to Covid-19 so far. P-536, a patient with TB meningitis, had been treated and discharged from First Neuro Hospital, which is now a supervised isolation centre. The district has also seen the discharge of 12 patients, including four from Kasaragod, and one each from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada and Karkala in Udupi district, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. Boloor has already been declared a containment zone. Incidentally, on May 3, the DC had denotified Thumbe in Bantwal taluk and Sampya in Puttur taluk as containment zones, as no positive cases were reported there in the last 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-third-member-of-family-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-boloor/articleshow/75564112.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 6, 2020||Agra||6 migrants among 7 killed as truck collide with auto in Mathura||AGRA: At least seven persons, including six migrant labourers, who were stranded in Uttar Pradesh and were returning to their native place in MP, were killed when a truck collided with the auto in which they were travelling in Mathura on Monday. The victims’ kin said that they had boarded the auto on hearing about an MP-bound bus set to depart on Monday night. The deceased were identified as Ram Sakhi, 33, and her two minor daughters Roshni, 14 and Laxmi, 5, and their relatives Kailash, 20, Shivaran, 17 and Ruchi, 8 and the auto driver, Madan Mohan. Talking to TOI, Circle Officer in Govardhan, Jitendra Kumar, said the accident took place around 8 pm on Tuesday nightnear Umri village. The labourers were travelling towards Jajan Patti area in the district after being told by someone that they would get a bus from there to Chhatarpur. However, there was no bus scheduled for MP, confirmed Kumar. He said that truck laden with watermelons collided with the auto, killing the migrant workers, and the auto driver. Another migrant, Laxmi (27) and her two-year-old girl, Mohini, were injured. They were admitted in a district hospital for treatment and their condition was stated to be critical. The truck driver reportedly fled from the spot, said police. According to Manish Kumar, whose maternal aunt, Ram Sakhi, died in the mishap, all the labourers, who were known to each other, had decided to travel together for their proposed journey to Chhatrapur. Several such incidents have been reported in the past when migrant workers have lost their lives in road mishaps on their way home from their places of work. On May 1, three migrant workers were killed in a road accident, when a truck rammed into the tractor-trolley, when they had reached Aligarh. They had started their foot march from Delhi to Fatehpur in UP and after walking for over 125 kilometre, a tractor driver agreed to transport them a few kilometres. On March 28, four migrant workers, who were walking back to Vasai after the police stopped at Bhillad on the Maharashtra-Gujarat border were killed after being run over by a truck at Virar on Saturday. The four were part of a group of seven who were trying to reach their villages in Rajasthan after crossing into Gujarat. The other three sustained injuries. On March 27, eight people from Karnataka, including a 3-year-old boy and an 8-year-old girl were killed and three people sustained severe injuries on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) in Shamshabad highway in Hyderabad after a mango-laden lorry rammed into the maxi truck they were travelling in. The maxi truck was carrying 31 migrant labourers who were engaged with a road infrastructure firm at Suryapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-migrants-among-7-killed-as-truck-collide-with-auto-in-mathura/articleshow/75564283.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 6, 2020||India||Step up security at originating stations for Shramik Specials: Railway ministry||NEW DELHI: The railway ministry has directed all the zones to step up security at stations for protection of all staff from where Shramik Specials are starting. It has instructed that the security personnel should have close coordination with intelligence agencies to prevent any possibility of sectarian feuds among passengers. In its detailed guidelines issued for running these special trains, the ministry has said, “Close interaction with intelligence agencies will be maintained to ascertain any possibilities of a sectarian feud or group conflict among the passengers. In the event of information about any such possibility, suitable precautions may be taken like enhanced presence of security personnel at the origin, en route and destinations.” The guidelines were issued on Monday. While most of the guidelines are generic in nature, there is special focus on security aspects. Considering high possibility of huge number of distressed passengers reaching railway stations from where trains are being run, the guidelines said that zones need to enhanced presence of security personnel and can even hire ex-servicemen, home guards and private security guards to avoid any untoward incident. There have been some reports of stranded migrants becoming unruly while demanding the authorities to allow them return home. The railway ministry guidelines said adequate security staff should be deployed for protection of station authorities. As per the circular, the security personnel deployed in trains will also keep watch on the behaviour of passengers and any troublemakers identified must be separated from the group. “In the event of increased hostility, state police may be informed to intervene as soon as possible,” the guidelines said. The guidelines also specified that no precedence should be given to one Shramik Special train over another and the crossings and precedence should be arranged in such a way that normally “no two stranded passenger special trains are stopped at any station simultaneously”. All zonal railways to keep isolation bed at hospitals for staff and passengers to use in case of exigencies. They have also been instructed not to deploy staff in the train who are over 50 years old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/step-up-security-at-originating-stations-for-shramik-specials-railway-ministry/articleshow/75564313.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Combating the toxic #lockerroom culture||“Toxic masculinity starts young,” Swara Bhasker tweeted on Tuesday, referring to the Instagram group Bois Locker Room, that’s been trending on Twitter since May 3. A proof of just how young toxic masculinity starts, the group consists of mostly teenaged schoolboys from prominent Delhi schools. The primary objective of the group was to discuss the anatomy of girls who were fellow students or acquaintances, share objectionable images of mostly minor girls without their consent and pass lewd statements. After a group of girls and a couple of boys decided to leak the chats of this group on Sunday, ‘locker room talk’ and its role in propagating rape culture became a hotly discussed topic. Many have pointed out that while the case is appalling and the content lurid, it has not shocked them. For such ‘locker rooms’ are all around us. From private social media groups and WhatsApp chats in colleges to informal offline gatherings at workplaces, many boys – and men –discuss and objectify women as a recreational activity. How the locker room culture starts Male role models: The first introduction to this kind of behaviour comes from male role models. “They have seen the men in their own homes make remarks about, ‘How tight her a** is’ and ‘How deep her cleavage is’. Men talk abut how many women they’ve hooked up with, associating it with manliness,” says clinical psychologist Dr Varkha Chulani. Peer pressure: “Social acceptance among peers means everything to youngsters, and they can go to any extent to become a part of the ‘cool group’,” says Dr Ratna Sharma, psychologist. ‘Sex is taboo’ mindset: “We have always shied away from talking about sex and sexuality. Hence, we see youngsters refer to misinformation available on web instead. What do we see in pornography? It is not an act of sex but of torture. These sites are easily available to teens and that’s their sex education 101,” says Dr Shalini Sharma, a physiologist. “As far as schools are concerned – and I cannot stress upon this enough – sex education and mindfulness has to be an integral part of the curriculum,” says Dr Ratna, adding, “They need to learn to not objectify the body of the opposite gender.” The numerous ‘boys locker rooms’ that are all around us‘Lack of action is disheartening’Rashika Kumar, a research scholar, says, “In college, a guy friend told me about a private Facebook group in which our batchmates would share pictures of girls from the college and rate them. My friend eventually called them out on it and they kicked him out of the group. When I complained about it, they did pull up the boys but the tone of the rebuke was very mild. I clearly remember one teacher smirked and said, ‘These boys!’ The tone was of amusement. It was so disheartening.” ‘Objectifying women is a rite of passage’Devika*, an aspiring fashion designer, had to transfer to another college after her morphed pictures were posted in a WhatsApp group by classmates. She says, “Unfortunately, objectifying women is almost a rite of passage for most men. Such behaviour is seen as something boys will do. People say they will learn when they are older. But how will they learn if you don’t punish them? The behaviour and culture needs to be called out, not just the act.” ‘Technology is just a medium’Abeer Sharma, a 32-year-old software engineer, who admits to have been privy to many such groups over the years, says, “First in school and later at work, I would see guys just sitting around and talking about women in the crudest of terms. In school, this guy had some pictures of a girl from class – hard copies – and he distributed it among the guys. The technology is just a medium.” ‘If you object, you aren’t one of the guys’Ravi Sharma*, a management executive, recounts, “I was part of a WhatsApp group where guys would share pictures of colleagues and friends and body shame them or pass lewd remarks. I left the group but yes, I never objected to what was being shared there. You can’t do that because then you are ostracised. Suddenly, you aren’t one of the guys anymore.” ‘At office parties men would discuss their conquests’Niti Bansal*, who used to work with a consultancy, “At office parties, a group of about 8-10 men, who called themselves the Big Boys Club, would go into a room and talk about women. This conversation included talks of their ‘conquests’ and objectification of the women around them. All of these were grown men, some of them in their 40s with kids – even daughters – of their own.” ‘Women who call this out are uncool’Prerna Ashok, who works in the hospitality industry, saw several of her friends turn against her in college when she called out some of her old collegemates for circulating her pictures on a similar group. She shares, “Just like in this case, I would see women jumping to the defence of their friends, boyfriends, or brothers when they were called out for being sexist. The ones who would oppose them would be labelled ‘psycho-feminists’ and ‘uncool’. I once had a classmate ask me, ‘Why can’t you be more chill like those girls? (*Names changed) This rape culture pyramid created by an NGO that promotes consensual encounters demonstrates how tolerance of the actions at the bottom subsequently supports or excuses the actions aboveWhat to do when dealing with a locker room situation:Inform parents or teachers if you’re added to such a group21-year-old Haris Khan, a resident of Defence Colony, is reportedly among the first one who found out about this group and shared the screenshots of the chats. “A minor boy was randomly added in this group on Friday. He did not know a single person in the group. After he saw the conversation and pictures on the group, he took screenshots and sent it to a friend whose pictures were shared in the group. She then shared the screenshots with me and I was absolutely taken aback... We tracked down eight girls whose pictures were circulated in the group, five of whom were minors. I suggested we should file a police complaint or at least report the boys’ accounts. I also thought we should first have permission from the underage girls if they are comfortable taking this up with their parents,” says Haris. So what should you do if you find yourself a part of a similar toxic group? “No matter how overwhelming it may be, you have to reach out to parents or relatives you trust. Simply quitting the group is not the solution. We always suggest that youngsters do not take screenshots or forward those messages to anyone, even if their intention is to inform or warn others. Hand over the phone to guardians, teachers, or parents, who can reach out to the police. They need not worry or be scared if they haven’t indulged in such conversations. The sooner you raise an alarm, the better,” says Rajendra Kumar, a cyber security expert. Warn your child if you see him indulging in toxic behaviourIf a parent has discovered that their child has sent such lewd messages and/or has been part of such a group, what is the best way to tackle the situation? Dr Varkha replies, “The key is to educate and teach the kids the consequences of what they do. Ask the child to sit down, show their phone to you, and explain what he was thinking. Have him delete the photos in front of you, send out an apology to the person concerned and stop associating with friends who encourage this behaviour.” Don’t be afraid to seek help if you’re a victimOne of the victims of the current case tells us, “I was very scared to confide in my parents as I felt that they would be furious with me. I finally did tell them, only to be met with a hug from my mom. She told me that it is not my fault and that she and my father will stand by me.” She adds, “Though we are getting a lot of support on social media, it is only making the boys more aggressive. They have been blackmailing us and they have now created another group, where they have started sharing morphed pictures of us as well. They also hacked into one of the girls’ accounts after this incident.” Rakshit Tandon, a cyber security advisor to police departments, who also conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “Report the account immediately under the right section – bullying, nudity, non-consensual image sharing, etc. This is important because then the social media platform can easily investigate and block the account. If the section is wrong, they will not take any action. You should also report it to cybercrime.gov.in. You can report anonymously too. Do not contact the person who shared your photos.” Rooheen Kalra, advocate, Delhi High Court and District Courts, says, “Under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code, a victim gets protection against revealing of his/her identity, and those examining the case – police, lawyers, and attorney – cannot reveal the name of the person in question on a public forum.” Bois Locker room Case: Delhi updates10 members identified, devices seized: Delhi PoliceA statement issued by the Delhi Police says, “A case FIR under relevant sections of the IT Act and the IPC was registered at PS Special Cell and investigation has been taken up by CyPAD Unit. The concerned platform, i.e. Instagram, has been asked to provide the details of the alleged accounts involved in the group. The details are awaited. As of now, about 10 members of the group have been identified. The identified members who are major, are being examined. The minor members of the group are being dealt with as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice Act. The devices used to engage in the offensive, vulgar communication have been seized from the identified group members.” Should give strictest punishment: DCWSwati Maliwal, the DCW chairperson, says, “Right now, one boy has been arrested and police is questioning others. All of them will be arrested, and as per law whatever is the punishment it should be given. But they should get the strictest punishment. The fact is that the harassment has not ended and they are threatening the girls who exposed them.” Getting panicked calls from parents: Cyber Security AdvisorRakshit Tandon, who conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “After this news surfaced, I started receiving panicked messages from parents and students. In 24 hours, I received over 300 messages. Participants of the group and their families are also getting threats on social media. We should let law take its course.” Boy’s parent asks victim to take back complaint“We are a group of seven girls whose pictures were shared on the group. One girl received a call from the mother of one of the boys. She was crying and asked for forgiveness. She further said that since there were 26 boys in the group, the blame should not be entirely on her son. She added that she understands that her son did wrong but she would do anything to save him. She repeatedly asked the girl to take back the case,” says a 19-year-old girl who is one of the victims. She adds that the boy’s mother got the girl’s contact because they both are from the same school in Delhi. -With inputs from Ashni Dhaor, Abhimanyu Mathur, Niharika Lal, Amrita Prasad, Saptaparna Biswas, Rishabh Deb and Ismat Tahseen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/combating-the-toxic-lockerroom-culture/articleshow/75563280.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Noida||Combating the toxic #lockerroom culture||“Toxic masculinity starts young,” Swara Bhasker tweeted on Tuesday, referring to the Instagram group Bois Locker Room, that’s been trending on Twitter since May 3. A proof of just how young toxic masculinity starts, the group consists of mostly teenaged schoolboys from prominent Delhi schools. The primary objective of the group was to discuss the anatomy of girls who were fellow students or acquaintances, share objectionable images of mostly minor girls without their consent and pass lewd statements. After a group of girls and a couple of boys decided to leak the chats of this group on Sunday, ‘locker room talk’ and its role in propagating rape culture became a hotly discussed topic. Many have pointed out that while the case is appalling and the content lurid, it has not shocked them. For such ‘locker rooms’ are all around us. From private social media groups and WhatsApp chats in colleges to informal offline gatherings at workplaces, many boys – and men –discuss and objectify women as a recreational activity. How the locker room culture starts Male role models: The first introduction to this kind of behaviour comes from male role models. “They have seen the men in their own homes make remarks about, ‘How tight her a** is’ and ‘How deep her cleavage is’. Men talk abut how many women they’ve hooked up with, associating it with manliness,” says clinical psychologist Dr Varkha Chulani. Peer pressure: “Social acceptance among peers means everything to youngsters, and they can go to any extent to become a part of the ‘cool group’,” says Dr Ratna Sharma, psychologist. ‘Sex is taboo’ mindset: “We have always shied away from talking about sex and sexuality. Hence, we see youngsters refer to misinformation available on web instead. What do we see in pornography? It is not an act of sex but of torture. These sites are easily available to teens and that’s their sex education 101,” says Dr Shalini Sharma, a physiologist. “As far as schools are concerned – and I cannot stress upon this enough – sex education and mindfulness has to be an integral part of the curriculum,” says Dr Ratna, adding, “They need to learn to not objectify the body of the opposite gender.” The numerous ‘boys locker rooms’ that are all around us‘Lack of action is disheartening’Rashika Kumar, a research scholar, says, “In college, a guy friend told me about a private Facebook group in which our batchmates would share pictures of girls from the college and rate them. My friend eventually called them out on it and they kicked him out of the group. When I complained about it, they did pull up the boys but the tone of the rebuke was very mild. I clearly remember one teacher smirked and said, ‘These boys!’ The tone was of amusement. It was so disheartening.” ‘Objectifying women is a rite of passage’Devika*, an aspiring fashion designer, had to transfer to another college after her morphed pictures were posted in a WhatsApp group by classmates. She says, “Unfortunately, objectifying women is almost a rite of passage for most men. Such behaviour is seen as something boys will do. People say they will learn when they are older. But how will they learn if you don’t punish them? The behaviour and culture needs to be called out, not just the act.” ‘Technology is just a medium’Abeer Sharma, a 32-year-old software engineer, who admits to have been privy to many such groups over the years, says, “First in school and later at work, I would see guys just sitting around and talking about women in the crudest of terms. In school, this guy had some pictures of a girl from class – hard copies – and he distributed it among the guys. The technology is just a medium.” ‘If you object, you aren’t one of the guys’Ravi Sharma*, a management executive, recounts, “I was part of a WhatsApp group where guys would share pictures of colleagues and friends and body shame them or pass lewd remarks. I left the group but yes, I never objected to what was being shared there. You can’t do that because then you are ostracised. Suddenly, you aren’t one of the guys anymore.” ‘At office parties men would discuss their conquests’Niti Bansal*, who used to work with a consultancy, “At office parties, a group of about 8-10 men, who called themselves the Big Boys Club, would go into a room and talk about women. This conversation included talks of their ‘conquests’ and objectification of the women around them. All of these were grown men, some of them in their 40s with kids – even daughters – of their own.” ‘Women who call this out are uncool’Prerna Ashok, who works in the hospitality industry, saw several of her friends turn against her in college when she called out some of her old collegemates for circulating her pictures on a similar group. She shares, “Just like in this case, I would see women jumping to the defence of their friends, boyfriends, or brothers when they were called out for being sexist. The ones who would oppose them would be labelled ‘psycho-feminists’ and ‘uncool’. I once had a classmate ask me, ‘Why can’t you be more chill like those girls? (*Names changed) This rape culture pyramid created by an NGO that promotes consensual encounters demonstrates how tolerance of the actions at the bottom subsequently supports or excuses the actions aboveWhat to do when dealing with a locker room situation:Inform parents or teachers if you’re added to such a group21-year-old Haris Khan, a resident of Defence Colony, is reportedly among the first one who found out about this group and shared the screenshots of the chats. “A minor boy was randomly added in this group on Friday. He did not know a single person in the group. After he saw the conversation and pictures on the group, he took screenshots and sent it to a friend whose pictures were shared in the group. She then shared the screenshots with me and I was absolutely taken aback... We tracked down eight girls whose pictures were circulated in the group, five of whom were minors. I suggested we should file a police complaint or at least report the boys’ accounts. I also thought we should first have permission from the underage girls if they are comfortable taking this up with their parents,” says Haris. So what should you do if you find yourself a part of a similar toxic group? “No matter how overwhelming it may be, you have to reach out to parents or relatives you trust. Simply quitting the group is not the solution. We always suggest that youngsters do not take screenshots or forward those messages to anyone, even if their intention is to inform or warn others. Hand over the phone to guardians, teachers, or parents, who can reach out to the police. They need not worry or be scared if they haven’t indulged in such conversations. The sooner you raise an alarm, the better,” says Rajendra Kumar, a cyber security expert. Warn your child if you see him indulging in toxic behaviourIf a parent has discovered that their child has sent such lewd messages and/or has been part of such a group, what is the best way to tackle the situation? Dr Varkha replies, “The key is to educate and teach the kids the consequences of what they do. Ask the child to sit down, show their phone to you, and explain what he was thinking. Have him delete the photos in front of you, send out an apology to the person concerned and stop associating with friends who encourage this behaviour.” Don’t be afraid to seek help if you’re a victimOne of the victims of the current case tells us, “I was very scared to confide in my parents as I felt that they would be furious with me. I finally did tell them, only to be met with a hug from my mom. She told me that it is not my fault and that she and my father will stand by me.” She adds, “Though we are getting a lot of support on social media, it is only making the boys more aggressive. They have been blackmailing us and they have now created another group, where they have started sharing morphed pictures of us as well. They also hacked into one of the girls’ accounts after this incident.” Rakshit Tandon, a cyber security advisor to police departments, who also conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “Report the account immediately under the right section – bullying, nudity, non-consensual image sharing, etc. This is important because then the social media platform can easily investigate and block the account. If the section is wrong, they will not take any action. You should also report it to cybercrime.gov.in. You can report anonymously too. Do not contact the person who shared your photos.” Rooheen Kalra, advocate, Delhi High Court and District Courts, says, “Under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code, a victim gets protection against revealing of his/her identity, and those examining the case – police, lawyers, and attorney – cannot reveal the name of the person in question on a public forum.” Bois Locker room Case: Delhi updates10 members identified, devices seized: Delhi PoliceA statement issued by the Delhi Police says, “A case FIR under relevant sections of the IT Act and the IPC was registered at PS Special Cell and investigation has been taken up by CyPAD Unit. The concerned platform, i.e. Instagram, has been asked to provide the details of the alleged accounts involved in the group. The details are awaited. As of now, about 10 members of the group have been identified. The identified members who are major, are being examined. The minor members of the group are being dealt with as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice Act. The devices used to engage in the offensive, vulgar communication have been seized from the identified group members.” Should give strictest punishment: DCWSwati Maliwal, the DCW chairperson, says, “Right now, one boy has been arrested and police is questioning others. All of them will be arrested, and as per law whatever is the punishment it should be given. But they should get the strictest punishment. The fact is that the harassment has not ended and they are threatening the girls who exposed them.” Getting panicked calls from parents: Cyber Security AdvisorRakshit Tandon, who conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “After this news surfaced, I started receiving panicked messages from parents and students. In 24 hours, I received over 300 messages. Participants of the group and their families are also getting threats on social media. We should let law take its course.” Boy’s parent asks victim to take back complaint“We are a group of seven girls whose pictures were shared on the group. One girl received a call from the mother of one of the boys. She was crying and asked for forgiveness. She further said that since there were 26 boys in the group, the blame should not be entirely on her son. She added that she understands that her son did wrong but she would do anything to save him. She repeatedly asked the girl to take back the case,” says a 19-year-old girl who is one of the victims. She adds that the boy’s mother got the girl’s contact because they both are from the same school in Delhi. -With inputs from Ashni Dhaor, Abhimanyu Mathur, Niharika Lal, Amrita Prasad, Saptaparna Biswas, Rishabh Deb and Ismat Tahseen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/combating-the-toxic-lockerroom-culture/articleshow/75564124.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Combating the toxic #lockerroom culture||“Toxic masculinity starts young,” Swara Bhasker tweeted on Tuesday, referring to the Instagram group Bois Locker Room, that’s been trending on Twitter since May 3. A proof of just how young toxic masculinity starts, the group consists of mostly teenaged schoolboys from prominent Delhi schools. The primary objective of the group was to discuss the anatomy of girls who were fellow students or acquaintances, share objectionable images of mostly minor girls without their consent and pass lewd statements. After a group of girls and a couple of boys decided to leak the chats of this group on Sunday, ‘locker room talk’ and its role in propagating rape culture became a hotly discussed topic. Many have pointed out that while the case is appalling and the content lurid, it has not shocked them. For such ‘locker rooms’ are all around us. From private social media groups and WhatsApp chats in colleges to informal offline gatherings at workplaces, many boys – and men –discuss and objectify women as a recreational activity. How the locker room culture starts Male role models: The first introduction to this kind of behaviour comes from male role models. “They have seen the men in their own homes make remarks about, ‘How tight her a** is’ and ‘How deep her cleavage is’. Men talk abut how many women they’ve hooked up with, associating it with manliness,” says clinical psychologist Dr Varkha Chulani. Peer pressure: “Social acceptance among peers means everything to youngsters, and they can go to any extent to become a part of the ‘cool group’,” says Dr Ratna Sharma, psychologist. ‘Sex is taboo’ mindset: “We have always shied away from talking about sex and sexuality. Hence, we see youngsters refer to misinformation available on web instead. What do we see in pornography? It is not an act of sex but of torture. These sites are easily available to teens and that’s their sex education 101,” says Dr Shalini Sharma, a physiologist. “As far as schools are concerned – and I cannot stress upon this enough – sex education and mindfulness has to be an integral part of the curriculum,” says Dr Ratna, adding, “They need to learn to not objectify the body of the opposite gender.” The numerous ‘boys locker rooms’ that are all around us‘Lack of action is disheartening’Rashika Kumar, a research scholar, says, “In college, a guy friend told me about a private Facebook group in which our batchmates would share pictures of girls from the college and rate them. My friend eventually called them out on it and they kicked him out of the group. When I complained about it, they did pull up the boys but the tone of the rebuke was very mild. I clearly remember one teacher smirked and said, ‘These boys!’ The tone was of amusement. It was so disheartening.” ‘Objectifying women is a rite of passage’Devika*, an aspiring fashion designer, had to transfer to another college after her morphed pictures were posted in a WhatsApp group by classmates. She says, “Unfortunately, objectifying women is almost a rite of passage for most men. Such behaviour is seen as something boys will do. People say they will learn when they are older. But how will they learn if you don’t punish them? The behaviour and culture needs to be called out, not just the act.” ‘Technology is just a medium’Abeer Sharma, a 32-year-old software engineer, who admits to have been privy to many such groups over the years, says, “First in school and later at work, I would see guys just sitting around and talking about women in the crudest of terms. In school, this guy had some pictures of a girl from class – hard copies – and he distributed it among the guys. The technology is just a medium.” ‘If you object, you aren’t one of the guys’Ravi Sharma*, a management executive, recounts, “I was part of a WhatsApp group where guys would share pictures of colleagues and friends and body shame them or pass lewd remarks. I left the group but yes, I never objected to what was being shared there. You can’t do that because then you are ostracised. Suddenly, you aren’t one of the guys anymore.” ‘At office parties men would discuss their conquests’Niti Bansal*, who used to work with a consultancy, “At office parties, a group of about 8-10 men, who called themselves the Big Boys Club, would go into a room and talk about women. This conversation included talks of their ‘conquests’ and objectification of the women around them. All of these were grown men, some of them in their 40s with kids – even daughters – of their own.” ‘Women who call this out are uncool’Prerna Ashok, who works in the hospitality industry, saw several of her friends turn against her in college when she called out some of her old collegemates for circulating her pictures on a similar group. She shares, “Just like in this case, I would see women jumping to the defence of their friends, boyfriends, or brothers when they were called out for being sexist. The ones who would oppose them would be labelled ‘psycho-feminists’ and ‘uncool’. I once had a classmate ask me, ‘Why can’t you be more chill like those girls? (*Names changed) This rape culture pyramid created by an NGO that promotes consensual encounters demonstrates how tolerance of the actions at the bottom subsequently supports or excuses the actions aboveWhat to do when dealing with a locker room situation:Inform parents or teachers if you’re added to such a group21-year-old Haris Khan, a resident of Defence Colony, is reportedly among the first one who found out about this group and shared the screenshots of the chats. “A minor boy was randomly added in this group on Friday. He did not know a single person in the group. After he saw the conversation and pictures on the group, he took screenshots and sent it to a friend whose pictures were shared in the group. She then shared the screenshots with me and I was absolutely taken aback... We tracked down eight girls whose pictures were circulated in the group, five of whom were minors. I suggested we should file a police complaint or at least report the boys’ accounts. I also thought we should first have permission from the underage girls if they are comfortable taking this up with their parents,” says Haris. So what should you do if you find yourself a part of a similar toxic group? “No matter how overwhelming it may be, you have to reach out to parents or relatives you trust. Simply quitting the group is not the solution. We always suggest that youngsters do not take screenshots or forward those messages to anyone, even if their intention is to inform or warn others. Hand over the phone to guardians, teachers, or parents, who can reach out to the police. They need not worry or be scared if they haven’t indulged in such conversations. The sooner you raise an alarm, the better,” says Rajendra Kumar, a cyber security expert. Warn your child if you see him indulging in toxic behaviourIf a parent has discovered that their child has sent such lewd messages and/or has been part of such a group, what is the best way to tackle the situation? Dr Varkha replies, “The key is to educate and teach the kids the consequences of what they do. Ask the child to sit down, show their phone to you, and explain what he was thinking. Have him delete the photos in front of you, send out an apology to the person concerned and stop associating with friends who encourage this behaviour.” Don’t be afraid to seek help if you’re a victimOne of the victims of the current case tells us, “I was very scared to confide in my parents as I felt that they would be furious with me. I finally did tell them, only to be met with a hug from my mom. She told me that it is not my fault and that she and my father will stand by me.” She adds, “Though we are getting a lot of support on social media, it is only making the boys more aggressive. They have been blackmailing us and they have now created another group, where they have started sharing morphed pictures of us as well. They also hacked into one of the girls’ accounts after this incident.” Rakshit Tandon, a cyber security advisor to police departments, who also conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “Report the account immediately under the right section – bullying, nudity, non-consensual image sharing, etc. This is important because then the social media platform can easily investigate and block the account. If the section is wrong, they will not take any action. You should also report it to cybercrime.gov.in. You can report anonymously too. Do not contact the person who shared your photos.” Rooheen Kalra, advocate, Delhi High Court and District Courts, says, “Under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code, a victim gets protection against revealing of his/her identity, and those examining the case – police, lawyers, and attorney – cannot reveal the name of the person in question on a public forum.” Bois Locker room Case: Delhi updates10 members identified, devices seized: Delhi PoliceA statement issued by the Delhi Police says, “A case FIR under relevant sections of the IT Act and the IPC was registered at PS Special Cell and investigation has been taken up by CyPAD Unit. The concerned platform, i.e. Instagram, has been asked to provide the details of the alleged accounts involved in the group. The details are awaited. As of now, about 10 members of the group have been identified. The identified members who are major, are being examined. The minor members of the group are being dealt with as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice Act. The devices used to engage in the offensive, vulgar communication have been seized from the identified group members.” Should give strictest punishment: DCWSwati Maliwal, the DCW chairperson, says, “Right now, one boy has been arrested and police is questioning others. All of them will be arrested, and as per law whatever is the punishment it should be given. But they should get the strictest punishment. The fact is that the harassment has not ended and they are threatening the girls who exposed them.” Getting panicked calls from parents: Cyber Security AdvisorRakshit Tandon, who conducts cyber security training in schools, says, “After this news surfaced, I started receiving panicked messages from parents and students. In 24 hours, I received over 300 messages. Participants of the group and their families are also getting threats on social media. We should let law take its course.” Boy’s parent asks victim to take back complaint“We are a group of seven girls whose pictures were shared on the group. One girl received a call from the mother of one of the boys. She was crying and asked for forgiveness. She further said that since there were 26 boys in the group, the blame should not be entirely on her son. She added that she understands that her son did wrong but she would do anything to save him. She repeatedly asked the girl to take back the case,” says a 19-year-old girl who is one of the victims. She adds that the boy’s mother got the girl’s contact because they both are from the same school in Delhi. -With inputs from Ashni Dhaor, Abhimanyu Mathur, Niharika Lal, Amrita Prasad, Saptaparna Biswas, Rishabh Deb and Ismat Tahseen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/combating-the-toxic-lockerroom-culture/articleshow/75564122.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Shimla||One more dies of coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: A 21-year-old youth from Brarta village of Sarkaghat sub division of Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district died at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla on Tuesday. The deceased was suffering from renal failure. This is the second death due to coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh. Earlier a Tibetan resident from Mcleodganj in Dharamshala had died on March 22. Sample for coronavirus testing was taken at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College at Ner Chowk in Mandi on Monday, while the youth was referred to Shimla for treatment of kidney ailment on Monday night. Sources said that the deceased youth was staying in Delhi since March for his treatment and during lockdown he was stuck there. On May 1, he had returned to Himachal Pradesh on medical emergency on getting valid pass. On Monday, he developed high grade fever, coughing and sneezing after which his sample was taken. Following the death of youth, now all the hospital staff, who have come in his contact in Mandi and Shimla, would be traced and quarantined. District administration of Mandi has started the process of contact mapping and sealing the area surrounding Brarta village. The state has now detected total 42 positive cases of which 34 cases have recovered, four cases have migrated out of the state, while two persons have died. At present there is only two active cases of coronavirus in the state of which one is from Mandi district and another is from Sirmaur district. In the state, so far total 15,777 people have been put under surveillance till Tuesday, of them 6,831 persons have completed 28 days of quarantine, while 8,946 persons are under active surveillance. Total 7898 persons were tested for Covid-19 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/one-more-dies-of-coronavirus-in-himachal-pradesh/articleshow/75565052.cms||Anand Bodh
May 6, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi hails J&K Pulitzer winners, draws BJP ire||NEW DELHI: BJP on Tuesday attacked Congress after Rahul Gandhi congratulated three photojournalists from Jammu and Kashmir for winning the Pulitzer Prize and asked Rahul to explain as if he agreed with the award citation terming Kashmir a “contested territory”. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra attacked Congress over Rahul's congratulatory tweet to the photojournalists and alleged that the Congress MP had endorsed those who considered Kashmir a "contested territory". Lauding the three award winning Associated Press photojournalists for winning the Pulitzer Prize for their "striking images of life" in the Valley, Rahul tweeted, "Congratulations to Indian photojournalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand for winning a Pulitzer Prize for their powerful images of life in Jammu and Kashmir. You make us all proud.” His “endorsement” of the photojournalists prompted BJP to question Congress’s stand on Kashmir. "Will Sonia Gandhi answer whether she and the Congress party concur with Rahul Gandhi on the issue of Kashmir not being an integral part of India. Rahul today congratulated those who got an award for considering Kashmir as a 'contested territory'," Patra said, posting the message with the hashtag "anti-national Rahul Gandhi". He also posted some photographs, which he said were taken by one of the winning photographers, to ask Rahul if agreed with their contents. Patra said the Pulitzer citation mentioned Kashmir as a "contested territory" and that "India had revoked the independence of Kashmir through abrogation of Article 370". “Rahulji, the award winning photograph caption says ‘India Occupied Kashmir’. Do you agree with it?” Patra asked in another tweet. Associated Press president and CEO Gary Pruitt said, “Thanks to the team inside Kashmir, the world was able to witness a dramatic escalation of the long struggle for the region’s independence.” Pulitzer board administrator Dana Canedy declared the winners from her living room via a livestream on YouTube. In a statement on their website following the announcement, the Pulitzer committee said the Kashmiri photographers were selected for their "striking images of life" in the disputed Himalayan territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-hails-jk-pulitzer-winners-draws-bjp-ire/articleshow/75564800.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Noida||Noida: Constable tests coronavirus positive, 15 others sent for quarantine||NOIDA: At least 15 police officers from Sector 20 police station have been sent to quarantine after a head constable — associated with Dial 112 — tested Covid-19 positive in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday, said officials on Tuesday. The head constable from Ghaziabad was on home quarantine earlier. Ädditional DCP Ranvijay Singh said: “The officers in quarantine include staff engaged in duty in containment zones.” Earlier, at least six police officers were asked to remain in quarantine after they showed symptoms. Three of them, including an sub-inspector, were deployed with the Sector 20 police station. Two constables and an sub-inspector with Sector 24 police station were asked to stay in quarantine and home isolation respectively. The sub-inspector with the Sector 20 police station has joined duty after testing negative for Covid-19. Earlier too, a Delhi police constable and his wife were among the suspected Covid-19 patients. The duo had come to Dadri CHC to get checked. Dadri CHC officials said the constable got tested at RML hospital, Delhi. Dr Sanjeev Saraswat from Dadri CHC said they are awaiting the constable’s reports. “He and his wife have been sent to GIMS for another test,” he said. DCP Singh added, “We are currently confirming the source of the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-15-others-sent-for-quarantine/articleshow/75565092.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 6, 2020||India||Three nations unite to give Gujarat brothers new family||NEW DELHI: In the midst of the national lockdown and uncertainties arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, two young boys — 9 and 12 — adopted from a specialised adoption agency in Gujarat are trying to settle down to the idea of a new family in their new home in Florence, Italy. This story would have been just another in the list of adoptions, but for the unusual circumstances that saw them stranded in Dubai for over four weeks after flying out of Mumbai on March 12. The long stay and unfamiliar surroundings saw one of the boys develop cold feet about travelling to a strange land, and this soon affected the other as well. Yet, the time spent at Dubai allowed counsellors to convince the children to wait it out, telling them that the ban on flights meant no other options anyway. The parents were told to pay more attention and be more accommodating of their new wards, and slowly things worked out. The Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) in Delhi took up the counselling in Gujarati and also arranged in-person interactions in Dubai. A visa was organised to enable the family to stay on in Dubai. The special counsellor used the time to help the children and parents bond. “The counselling and the time spent by the adoptive parents with the childrenworked and the children agreed to go to their new home,” CARA CEO Deepak Kumar said. With no commercial flights operating, the authorities in Italy organised a private jet that brought them to Florence on April 18. Speaking to TOI over phone, Serena Alfare, the coordinator at the Authorised Foreign Adoption Agency in Italy, said they are following up with the family. “The children are settling down to knowing the house they had been seeing on video calls,” Alfare said. The CARA CEO sees in this case as a rare coming together of three countries — India, the United Arab Emirates and Italy — to facilitate the entire process under very difficult circumstances. There have been other challenges too. Some adoptive parents, stranded in India with the children handed over prior to the lockdown, reached out to CARA for expediting exit visas. In coordination with Foreign Regional Registration Office, CARA has issued five exit visas for children who managed to leave for the US, Italy and Malta by special flights organised by respective countries for the stranded citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-nations-unite-to-give-gujarat-brothers-new-family/articleshow/75565080.cms||Ambika Pandit
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt cancels inter-state trains for migrant workers||BENGALURU: Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to cancel all Shramik special trains which carry migrant workers from Bengaluru to their home states from from Wednesday. The move came after chief minister B S Yediyurappa met prominent builders in the state and many real estate firms reportedly expressed their concerns over labour exodus. Following the meeting, N Manjunath Prasad, nodal officer for inter-state travel from Karnataka, has written a letter to South Western Railway (SWR) saying no more train services required from Wednesday. "We had requested to arrange to run two train services every day for five days except for tomorrow (May 6) for which trains can be arranged and the time of departure can be at 9am, 12pm and 3pm departing from Bengaluru to Danapur, Bihar," said a letter written by Prasad dated May 5. "Since the train services are not required from tomorrow the letter cited under reference above is withdrawn", it adds. Following the meeting with builders, Yediyurappa tweeted: “Directions were given to the ministers to convince the labourers to refrain from returning to their home states”. SWR along with state government operated eight trains since Sunday and ferried around 9,583 workers. These trains were operated to Danapur (three trains), Bhubaneswar, Hatia, Lucknow, Barkakana and Jaipur. However, several lakhs of migrant workers from other states are still stranded in the city and willing to return to their native places. Karnataka government has been collecting railway-fixed fares from workers - Rs 910 per passenger for Bengaluru-Danapur, Rs 855 for Bengaluru-Jaipur, Rs 770 for Bengaluru-Howrah (West Bengal), Rs 760 for Bengaluru-Hatia, Rs 665 for Bengaluru-Bhubaneswar, Rs 830 for Chikbanawara-Lucknow and Rs 790 for Malur–Barkakana. The ticket rate of the Shramik special train includes the price of a regular sleeper-class ticket plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20. In fact, the workers also had to pay bus fares to reach the railway station from their respective labour camps. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) charged Rs 130-140 per passenger for the same. Every worker looking to travel had to pay for both train and BMTC tickets in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-cancels-inter-state-trains-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/75565392.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 6, 2020||Business||One in 4 employed lost job across India in March-April: CMIE||NEW DELHI: A jobs crisis is staring the country in the face as several crucial sectors of the economy have been severely impacted by the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. It is threatening to push more people into poverty, engulfing both formal and informal sector workers. The latest monthly data from economic think-tank CMIE showed that India’s unemployment rate shot up to 23.5% in April. Among large states, unemployment was highest in Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, and Bihar at 49.8%, 47.1%, and 46.6% respectively. It was lowest in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Telangana at 2.9%, 3.4%, and 6.2%, the CMIE survey results showed. The latest figures for the week up to May 3 showed the unemployment rate rising even further to 27.1%, the highest so far, according to the CMIE jobs survey. “The estimated loss of employment between March and April 2020 is 114 million. Given that the total count of employed is around 400 million, the loss of 114 million implies that one in every four employed persons lost their jobs,” said Mahesh Vyas, managing director and CEO of CMIE. He said in his post on Tuesday that data up to May 3 indicated the rate could climb further. “The situation on the employment front is very serious,” said Vyas. He said the labour participation rate (a measure of the active workforce in the economy) is extremely low and in April it was 35.6%. Vyas said an extension of the lockdown could worsen the situation. “We saw the unemployment rate rise from 23% initially to 24% and then 26% during April. It came down to 21% in the last week as the lockdown was eased a bit in rural India post April 20. Evidently, a further extension of the lockdown will make matters much worse for labour and relaxation can bring some instant, albeit small relief,” said Vyas. Large-scale migration could exacerbate the situation by leading to a shortage of skilled labour in certain sectors. Among the worst-hit are small, medium and micro enterprises, hotels and restaurants, multiplexes, retail, airlines, manufacturing, and media. This has led to job cuts as firms scampered to deal with the emergency. Pronab Sen, who was India’s chief statistician, said rural areas may be less affected as the agriculture sector has not been hit too badly, but there remains uncertainty about the net income of farmers. “Urban poverty is going to be a serious concern,” Sen said, adding that the CMIE figures were a reflection of what is happening on the ground. He also said it would have a major impact on the country’s efforts to reduce poverty. Experts said informal sector workers have borne the brunt of the impact of the pandemic. “A large proportion of India’s workforce, which comprises the informal sector, has taken a hit. The most affected are daily-wage earners and those with no job security. In India, casual labourers form about 25% of the workforce. These labourers would take the first hit, due to the shutdowns and layoffs. The most-affected industries – construction, a large section of manufacturing, and transport – have a sizeable proportion of casual labourers; for example, they form roughly 83% of the construction workforce,” said D.K. Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil. “Even in the salaried category, about 38% do not have job security, implying that they do not have a valid job contract, are not eligible for paid leave, and do not have social security benefits. Services such as accommodation and food services and airlines have been hit hard. The continuation of lockdown therefore has serious consequences for the livelihoods of these categories of workforce,” said Joshi. Last month, the International Labour Organisation warned that in India, with almost 90% of people working in the informal economy, about 400 million workers are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis and it is expected to wipe out 6.7% of working hours globally in the second quarter of 2020 – equivalent to 195 million full-time workers. Economists said the long term impact on jobs would depend on how the recovery is scripted. “Government intervention at the time of the crisis is very important to mitigate the pain on households. However, if recovery takes more time, it may lead to a significant impact on employment and the poverty situation," said Devendra Pant, chief economist at IndiaRatings. Experts also said that the country’s track record of lifting millions from poverty may suffer a serious setback. Between 2011-15, more than 90 million Indians escaped extreme poverty and improved their living standards thanks to robust economic growth, according to the World Bank. Noted economist Ashok Gulati expects the unemployment and poverty situation to deteriorate. “The question is by how much and for how long? Even malnutrition and infant mortality may go up,” warned Gulati, Infosys chair professor for Agriculture at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER). Watch One in 4 employed lost job across India in March-April||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1-in-every-4-employed-persons-lost-jobs-in-march-april-cmie/articleshow/75565241.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 6, 2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Reporting gaps by states behind spurt in cases’||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday said efforts to pursue gaps in reporting protocols with some states have resulted in more number of positive Covid-19 cases as well as deaths being reported. The problems had led to late clinical management and inefficient contact-tracing which had now been ironed out to a considerable extent. As many as 3,900 new cases and 195 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking total number of confirmed cases to 46,433. The total number of fatalities reported so far were 1568. “We are dealing with an infectious disease. Therefore, timely reporting of cases and their clinical management is important. In some states, this gap (in reporting) has been noted and are now being addressed,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. Responding to a question on an increase in numbers in West Bengal, where there has been a controversy over how Covid-19 deaths were being recorded, he said, “We followed up with certain states as we were not receiving reports of cases and deaths on time from them. We pursued them and issues are now being addressed. As we are now receiving reports of cases and deaths from them, there is an increase in cases reported in last 24 hours.” The Centre also urged states to effectively implement contact-tracing, active case search and clinical management of cases. “At the level of states, it is important that based on cases reported, contact-tracing, active case search and clinical management of cases are effectively implemented,” Agarwal said. Reiterating that lockdown has yielded better results in terms of doubling time of positive cases improving to 12 days from 3.4 days, Agarwal said the momentum has to be sustained and reach a level where the curve flattens. However, he said efforts are channeled towards stabilising the rise in cases. “We need to come to a level where day-to-day increase in cases should actually be happening in geometrical progression. It should be happening in such a manner where number of cases that get added vry day are less and subsequent to a level where we can actually increase the doubling rate much higher so that cases remain stable and that is where we end up seeing a flattening of curve,” he said. So far, a total of 12,726 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 27.41%, Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reporting-gaps-by-states-behind-spurt-in-cases/articleshow/75565411.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to open liquor vends from Wednesday||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government would start the sale of liquor from Wednesday. A decision in this regard has been taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Tuesday under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. However, the rates of liquor may be higher as compared to the previous excise policy announced by the state in February this year, as the government has decided to impose "Covid cess" on the sale of liquor. The government has also restricted the timings for sale of liquor — it will be available between 7 am and 7 pm. The retail liquor vends would be allowed to operate in all the districts except containment zones. Similarly, the financial year for the purpose of excise policy would begin from May 15, 2020. The Haryana government had banned the sale of liquor in the state from March 27 in view of the imposition of lockdown. However, within a period of last one and half month, the state had witnessed a large number of FIRs for liquor smuggling or bootlegging in the state. Lakhs of bottles of liquor has also been seized by the law enforcing agencies in the state during this period. The state has also suffered massive loss of around Rs 400 crore every month due to closure of liquor vends in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-open-liquor-vends-from-wednesday/articleshow/75565444.cms||Ajay Sura
May 6, 2020||India||Covid-19 deaths soar by 199; West Bengal adds 72 from earlier||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 deaths in India rose sharply on Tuesday, hitting triple digits in a single day for the first time with 199 casualties reported from across the country in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,688. New cases remained high at 2,801 in the last 24 hours, the second-highest so far after Monday’s spike, as the total coronavirus count came within touching distance of the half-lakh mark at 49,333. With a surge in deaths in the past few days, the mortality rate of the virus has risen slightly from 3.2% on April 30 to 3.4 on Tuesday. Of the 199 deaths, Bengal alone accounted for 79 — 72 of these were earlier termed as deaths due to co-morbidities — followed by 49 in Gujarat and 34 in Maharashtra. Gujarat toll was the highest recorded by any state so far in 24-hours. However, Bengal government maintained that the 72 victims had co-morbidities and died “with the virus but not of the virus”. With 85 fresh cases on Tuesday, Bengal also recorded its highest spike in Covid cases, with the total count rising to 1,344. However, of the total cases, 235 were not reported earlier. As per the Union health ministry, as many as 3,900 new cases and 195 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. However, most of these cases were reported by TOI over the past two days, relying on data released by state governments. The Centre said that delayed reporting of positive cases as well as deaths was the main cause behind sudden surge on these two counts in the figures released on Tuesday. “We are dealing with infectious disease. Therefore, timely reporting of cases and their clinical management is important. In some states, this gap (in reporting) has been noted and (these issues) are now being addressed,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. Responding to a question on Bengal, Agarwal said, “We followed up with certain states as we were not receiving reports of cases and deaths on time from them. We pursued them and (the issues) are now being addressed.” Significantly, Delhi crossed the 5,000-mark with 206 more persons testing positive for the disease. Tuesday’s figures come as a relief as this is for the first time after the last three days that Delhi has recorded below-300 numbers. Like Monday, no deaths were reported in Delhi on Tuesday. Gujarat recorded maximum deaths in a day with 49 casualties, taking the state toll to 368. Also, for the first time the state breached the 400-mark in a single day by recording 441 fresh patients, taking the total number of cases to 6,245. The situation is getting worse by the day in Ahmedabad, which reported 349 or 79% of the total cases and 39 or 79% of the total deaths on Tuesday. Maharashtra breached the 15,000-mark by reporting 984 fresh cases, taking the total number to 15,525. Of the total cases, nearly 900 patients were confirmed earlier but were added to the tally only on Monday, not reflecting in the figures reported by TOI. Maharashtra breached the 15,000-mark in just five days after reaching the 10,000-mark. With 34 casualties on Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded its third-highest death toll in a single day, taking the cumulative death toll beyond the 600-mark to reach 617 deaths. For the second day in a row, the state attributed the big jump in figures to bookkeeping and said that only 841 of the 984 cases were for a 24-hour period, the second-highest single-day addition, while the remaining – 143 – were cases tested over the past one week but confirmed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) only on Monday. The state claimed that its data cleaning process was now complete for all the districts except Mumbai. Mumbai on Tuesday contributed to nearly 75% of the state’s daily tally by adding 635 new cases, second highest single-day jump for the city. Mumbai with 9945 total cases is just handful of cases away from touching the 10,000-mark. The other states reporting deaths in double digits on Tuesday were Rajasthan (12) and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day, taking the toll to 89. Of these, Jaipur alone accounts for 50 deaths. UP recorded 118 new cases, taking the total to 2880. The state recorded seven more deaths, taking the toll to 56. As many as 185 patients were discharged, the highest number in a day. Tamil Nadu crossed the 4,000-mark with 508 more patients testing positive, taking the total number to 4,058. Chennai accounts for nearly 50% of these cases. The state capital added 279 new patients to its tally. Two people - a 56-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman -- died in the last 24 hours, taking the state toll to 33. Andhra Pradesh reported 67 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the tally to 1,717, with hotbed Kurnool becoming the first district in the state to cross the 500-mark. In Tripura, 12 more BSF jawans and a mess worker of the 138th battalion of the paramilitary force located at Ambassa in Dhalai district tested positive on Tuesday. Earlier, 25 jawans of the same battalion and two of their children had got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-deaths-soar-by-199-west-bengal-adds-72-from-earlier/articleshow/75565374.cms||---
May 6, 2020||India||Mehbooba’s detention extended for three months||SRINAGAR: The detention of former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) was on Tuesday extended by three months, hours before it was due to expire. In a similar move, the detention of Ali Mohammed Sagar, former minister and senior National Conference leader, and Sartaj Madani, senior PDP leader and Mehbooba Mufti’s maternal uncle, was also extended by another three months. In a brief order by the home department of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, the extension of PSA was made under the public order provisions of the Act. Mufti was initially detained on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into two Union territories. At present, she is lodged at her official residence, which has been converted into a subsidiary jail. Sagar and Madani are in a government accommodation. Both leaders were detained under PSA on February 6 this year after completing their six-month detention. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the decision to extend the detention of Mufti was “unbelievably cruel” and “retrograde”. “Unbelievably cruel & retrograde decision to extend @MehboobaMufti's detention. Nothing she has done or said in any way justifies the way the Indian state has treated her & the others detained,” he tweeted. Unbelievably cruel & retrograde decision to extend @MehboobaMufti’s detention. Nothing she has done or said in any… https://t.co/w14QHCt4iH— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1588695596000“For a government that is making tall claims about normality in J&K the last few days coupled with the extension of Ms Mufti’s detention is proof enough that Modi ji has single handedly pushed J&K back decades,” he added. Several political leaders inlcuding Omar, Mufti and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah were detained by the authorities on August 5. The PSA of senior Abdullah and his son was revoked earlier in March this year. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehboobas-detention-extended-for-three-months/articleshow/75565597.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 6, 2020||Allahabad||Indian Army felicitates coronavirus warriors in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when large number of unsung heroes are serving the nation in the present Covid-19 pandemic, there are several of the ‘coronavirus warriors’ in the Sangam city too. The Indian army has felicitated such warriors at Subhash crossing of the civil lines on Tuesday. “Over the past two months, the Covid-19 pandemic has brought focus on the stellar role played by a vast section of individuals, largely unsung, who are the actual heroes of today and these ‘warriors’ are fulfilling an indispensable responsibility as the front line warriors in the efforts of the nation in combating this invisible threat which has reached our doorsteps,” said PRO defence, Wing Commander, Shailendra Pandey. He further informed that the Purva UP & MP Sub Area headquarter organized a felicitation ceremony at Subhash Chowk in Civil Lines of Prayagraj in recognition of the heroic endeavors and to demonstrate appreciation towards the efforts of the civil administration, doctors, hospital staff, civil police and the conservancy staff involved in the prevention of the pandemic. HQ Purva UP & MP Sub Area commanding general officer major general I M Lamba gave away the token of appreciation to the coronavirus warriors. During the felicitation ceremony, the patriotic tunes were played by the elite military band which further boosted the morale of the corona warriors. A pledge was taken by all present reaffirming the unwavering commitment of the nation to defeat this pandemic. The armed forces have made adequate preparations to deal with coronavirus pandemic and are ready to assist the civil administration in emergency, whenever required, Lamba added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/indian-army-felicitates-coronavirus-warriors-in-prayagraj/articleshow/75565779.cms||Rajiv Mani
May 6, 2020||Business||From Thursday, 64 flights to airlift 15k Indians stuck abroad in a week||NEW DELHI: A massive airlift operation will get underway on Thursday with 64 flights bringing back close to 15,000 Indian nationals from 12 countries in the first week of the ambitious exercise to repatriate lakhs of people. The operation, as foreign minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet, is titled ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. Commenced preparations for Vande Bharat Mission. Planning underway for stranded Indian nationals to return home st… https://t.co/EHcvyM726w— Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) 1588682649000Apart from the Gulf, official sources said, non-scheduled commercial aircraft will fly out stranded Indians from the US, the UK, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. The number of Indians lining up to return is expected to far exceed the 1,90,000, who initially registered and could be as many as 4 lakh, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said. The return of lakhs of Indians over the following weeks marks a new challenge for India’s war against Covid-19 as the returnees will need to be screened and placed under institutional quarantine or admitted to hospitals if they show symptoms. All states, particularly those like Kerala and Maharashtra, need to prepare large facilities to hold passengers in isolation for quarantine and testing. Flying back from the US and the UK to India will cost Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000, respectively, for the special flights being operated by Air India. The fare range starts at Rs 12,000 for a Dhaka-Delhi flight and one of the highest demand route — Dubai-Kochi — will cost Rs 16,000 per person. The arrangements are for those unable to return after India banned international flight to isolate the country from transmission of Covid-19 from foreign shores. Official sources said as many as 84 Indians abroad had died after contracting Covid-19 and 10,000 remained infected. Most of the infections are in the Gulf and Singapore. The initial phase of the exercise will not cover OCIs, sources said. Indian workers are stranded in large numbers in several countries. Sources also said Indians looking to travel will have to undergo not just medical screening but also Covid tests wherever the facility is available. Like in the UAE, where Indians will have to take rapid antibody tests before they're allowed to board the aircraft. Puri said on Tuesday, “In the first week (May 7-13), Air India will operate 64 flights to 12 countries on which we expect to bring back about 15,000 Indians back home. Already, about 2 lakh Indians abroad have registered to return to the country. We do not know what the final number of Indians who return will be. It could be 4 lakh.” The MEA has designated senior officials (joint and additional secretaries) to coordinate with each state where Indian nationals will be landing. Those facing deportation in the Gulf will be on top of the priority list of “compelling cases”. They will be followed by migrant labour, non-permanent visa holders, pregnant women, the elderly, those facing medical emergencies, tourists and students. India will ramp up flights gradually based on the experience of the first week of operations. “States need to be ready (with quarantine facilities) and accordingly we will plan for subsequent weeks. In the first week, all flights will be by Air India and later, private airlines can also contribute towards bringing back stranded Indians,” Puri said. The minister added that the fares for the flights were lower than the cost of operating these special flights — which could be flying out only partially full or empty. Also, several Indians who are citizens of foreign countries or are green card holders are currently stranded here due to temporary suspension of commercial flights. “People like them who are willing to pay can fly out on these flights,” Puri said. Sources said the last three rows on each aircraft will be kept vacant to seat passengers showing symptoms en route. Food boxes will be given to passengers for the flight to minimise interaction with crew. Flyers will need to wear masks throughout the journey and crew will be in personal protective gear. Inflight entertainment systems will not be operational to minimise contact with surfaces. Puri said keeping middle seats vacant and operating a flight with one-third seats unsold was not viable. Almost all international airlines operating repatriation flights have also done so as the idea is to get as many people home as possible. “All passengers will be quarantined and no one is allowed to go for even home quarantine. And with masks mandatory, keeping middle seats vacant on such flights may not be necessary. However, we have asked Air India to take the home ministry’s nod for the same,” a source said. In the first week, the maximum number of 3,150 people are expected to return on 15 flights to Kerala from seven countries. This will be followed by about 2,150 returning to Tamil Nadu (Chennai and Trichy) on 11 flights from nine countries. About 1,900 will return to Mumbai on seven flights from six countries. “Delhi figures will take some time to finalise as authorities are awaiting word on quarantine facilities available,” a source said. All Indians returning on these flights will need to spend 14 days in either hospital or a designated quarantine facility against payment. Watch Massive airlift operation to bring back lakhs of Indians stranded abroad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airlifting-indians-stranded-abroad-to-start-on-thursday/articleshow/75565475.cms||Saurabh Sinha
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Indian Red Cross Society showers flowers on nurses at Government General Hospital in Guntur||GUNTUR: Showering praises on the nursing staff at Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) Guntur chapter vice-chairman and disaster management committee chairman Penmatsa Ramachandra Raju has said that nurses and paramedical staff have performed exemplary courage in the fight against Covid-19. He said that cool presence of the nursing staff is playing pivotal role in bringing the patients back to normalcy. IRCS volunteers visited GGH exclusively applaud the services of nursing and paramedical staff on Tuesday. He urged the nurses to get ready to take up more challenges in the future with the similar courage. He said that every person in the healthcare system have shown how different they are from the rest of the society with their services. GGH superintendent Dr DS Raju Naidu said that they were confident about their staff of handling Covid-19 without much difficulty as they effortlessly handled the challenges during swine-flu, dengue and diarrheoa-hit the region in the past. He said that challenges are not new for the medical professionals and they were always ready to face them. He said that Red Cross felicitation had only increased their responsibility and exuded confidence that they would handle it with more care. Orthopedic wing HOD Dr Ramana SSV thanked the IRCS for organizing the programme as it motivated their spirits. IRCS volunteers gave rose flowers to the nurses and applauded their services with claps. Nursing superintendent Padmavathi, Asha Sajana, N Vijayalakshmi, Manju, GGH RMO Adinarayana, BJP leader Jupudi Rangaraju, SVS Lakshminarayana were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/indian-red-cross-society-showers-flowers-on-nurses-at-government-general-hospital-in-guntur/articleshow/75565847.cms||Samdani MN
May 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Hundreds waiting for their turn to come back’||PATNA: Sugriv Kumar, a resident of Kishanganj district, looked delighted as he got off the special train carrying migrant workers and students from Kerala at Muzaffarpur station on Tuesday evening. Kumar (45) said he was among the lucky ones to have managed to reach home safely. “Thank God that I have reached hale and hearty. But there are hundreds who are still waiting for their turn to come back to Bihar. You can well imagine the mental agony of those stranded people,” he said while waiving at his fellow passengers. Kumar was provided with food packets and bottles of water before he left for his home town Kishanganj in a bus from Muzaffarpur. He, however, didn’t forget to mention that he had to pay the fare to the railways for his travel from Kerala to Muzaffarpur and then from Muzaffarpur to Kishanganj by bus. Around 1,200 migrant workers and students reached Muzaffarpur by Earnakulam Express. Adequate security arrangements were made by the district administration on the railway platform and outside to ensure smooth passage of passengers to the bus stop. The travellers were asked to fill up the requisite forms before leaving for their destinations. A senior official of the disaster management department said, “People from 25 districts reached Muzaffarpur from Kerala by the special train on Tuesday. They left for their destinations after proper screening by the doctors. They were also asked to stay in quarantine for 21 days in their respective blocks.” Around 4 am, a special train carrying altogether 1,208 migrant workers from Ahmedabad in Gujarat reached Muzaffarpur junction. Rakesh Kumar (30), a resident of Saran district, said the passengers had to travel without food and water. “We survived on biscuits and snacks that we were carrying with us,” he said. But an elderly man, who showed his travel ticket to media persons waiting outside, said he was satisfied with the arrangements made by the district administration at Muzaffarpur junction. “The officials not only supplied food packets and water bottles but also were very courteous and behaved well,” he said, adding, he had to pay Rs715 as train fare and Rs15 as bus fare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hundreds-waiting-for-their-turn-to-come-back/articleshow/75561440.cms||Ramashankar
May 6, 2020||Business||Impending disputes keep law firms busy in lockdown||Chennai: Strange as it may sound, Nivesh Khandelwal, founder of medical loan platform LetsMD, had consulted law firm Burgeon Law, as a pre-emptive move to see if any disputes may arise with vendors, during the normal course of business. Defaults from customers may arise, which may become disputes with the vendors on non-repayment. “People at this point are fairly understanding and it is just expecting future disputes that we are analysing legal implications,” he said. It is a busy time for boutique law firms during the lockdown. With the economic activity taking a hit, impacting cash flows, reneging contracts and non payment of salaries these firms are working overtime to either settle disputes. Law firms such as Burgeon Law, Ikigai Law and the Law office of Madhavan Srivatsan are seeing a 30% jump in demand. They are focussed clientele — startup founders, who are contemplating invoking a force majeure, as many are facing existential crisis. “Once the lockdown is lifted, we expect an increase in contract defaults and litigation around this. In some cases, we have seen investors attempting to pull out from venture capital deals after signing term sheets. Promoters are reaching out for advice on this,” said Anirudh Rastogi,founder, Ikigai law Roma Priya, founder, Burgeon Law, adds that individual angels who have lost money in the public market have paused their investments. “They are putting off closing the deals and are asking companies to meet them after the lockdown. There are also disputes happening between employers and workers on layoffs and salary cuts. At the end of the lockdown, some recovery suits could come out. Right now, however, parties are trying to mitigate the issue and deal with situations,” she said. Rastogi said that the law firm is seeing disputes between investors and companies, especially in sectors that are heavily stressed such as travel, hospitality and non-essential consumer goods. “In most cases they involve renegotiation of contract terms, evaluating one's legal options, or preparing for a potential lawsuit,” he added. Some companies are approaching law firms to see if it is legal to lay off or cut salaries of their employees. Madhavan Srivatsan, founder, Law of Madhavan Srivatsan said that this situation will also reduce the valuation of the funding the startups raise in future. “The companies are feeling the pinch and would not want to raise money at a reduced valuation,” he said. While seeing an increase in business, the law firms are helping with pro bono consultations. While Madhavan Srivatsan offers a free 2 hour consultation on Tuesday and Saturday. Burgeon law has a document made for those businesses looking to raise money or are dealing with a loss of business during the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/impending-disputes-keep-law-firms-busy-in-lockdown/articleshow/75563857.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 6, 2020||Business||HC cancels former IL&FS VC’s bail||MUMBAI: In a setback to former Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) vice-chairman Hari Sankaran, the Bombay high court on Tuesday cancelled interim bail granted by a sessions court to him in a case of alleged fraud and ever-greening of the company. A trial court had granted him interim bail for eight weeks last month. Additionally, the HC had also last month, in a significant ruling, quashed the criminal case initiated by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) against Sankaran and several former auditors of IL&FS Financial Services (IFIN). Armed with the quashing order, which though stayed by the HC, Sankaran had sought bail as his counsel Aabad Ponda argued that a stay would not operate on a lower court.The SFIO swiftly moved for cancellation of the interim relief before the HC. The agency, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh and H S Venegaonkar, argued that they would be appealing the quashing order before the SC and, since he was not released yet from the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, he ought not to.The HC bench of Justice C V Bhadang directed that the trial court finally decide his plea for bail within six weeks. In his order, Justice C V Bhadang said, while the HC doesn’t interfere easily in a bail that’s granted, it would depend on the facts of each case. “The fact that the special judge has not even prima facie recorded any finding as to the applicability of the provisions as to bail on default, I find that the order suffers from infirmity so as to require interference,” said the HC, while setting aside the interim bail order. In a related development, Another accused in the IL&FS case, former IL&FS MD R Karunakaran arrested last June by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), sought bail on health grounds during the lockdown. His counsel Ponda said, given he is 65 years old and his health condition, he could be susceptible to catching the Covid-19 infection in Taloja prison where he is lodged. The ED counsel Venegaonkar argued that there was no immediate health risk and that a report by jail authorities showed that they were taking due care to prevent any Covid outbreak in jail. The HC did not grant Karunakaran any urgent interim relief and posted the matter for hearing after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-cancels-former-ilfs-vcs-bail/articleshow/75565005.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 6, 2020||Patna||Rain to continue in Bihar till May 8: Weathermen||PATNA: Light to moderate rain and thunderstorm activities were witnessed in most parts of the state on Tuesday even as weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said showers would continue in different parts of the state till May 8. The daily weather issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in the state over the last 24 hours. India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated in its all India bulletin on Tuesday that thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (speed up to 30-40kmph) would be witnessed at isolated places in Bihar on Thursday and Friday. According to Patna Metrological Centre, rain associated with thunderstorm and gusty winds (speed up to 40-50 kmph) would lash Patna and several other places in the state on Wednesday. Officials at the meteorological centre attributed the prevailing thunderstorm activities to moisture incursion from two weather systems in and around the region. “Almost entire Bihar, except southwest and south central parts, received showers on Tuesday. Aggressive rainy conditions are likely to be witnessed in eastern parts of the state till Wednesday morning. Thereafter, the intensity of showers and thunderstorm would reduce slightly but rains along with squall and lightning is expected at a few places in the state till May 8,” an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-to-continue-in-state-till-may-8-weathermen/articleshow/75561551.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 6, 2020||Business||High prices encourage gold pledgers to redeem and resell, get liquidity||Chennai: For 45 year-old Vijay Kumar who runs a travel agency, business has been bruised due to Covid, with cash flows completely wiped off and lenders queuing up. It is an existential crisis and every rupee coming in is most welcome. He took an ultra short term bridge loan to settle his gold loan. Upon retrieval, he sold the gold, repaid the bridge loan and pocketed some money too.With the price of gold rising sharply, gilt lenders see increasing instances of customers coming forward to settle the old pledges, only to sell the jewellery for higher value and take home some money.“Yes, with the price of gold rising to historic highs in India, we have been seeing instances of customers choosing to redeem their pledges in order to sell the jewellery as scrap and take advantage of these unprecedented prices,” said VP Nandakumar, MD & CEO, Manappuram Finance, one of the large lenders against gold.“Though no new customers could be acquired during the lockdown period, we did see the momentum going with repayments and renewal of gold loan pledges taking place through our various digital channels, including the online gold loan (OGL) platform,” he said. Manappuram Finance has reopened 80% of its branches now.George Alexander Muthoot, MD, at India’s largest gold lender Muthoot Finance Limited, said “We do see many customers coming forward to settle their old loans post the lifting of lockdown. Once the gold loan is closed, customers are free to deal with the ornament in any manner they please. The trend to sell the pledged gold jewellery after redeeming from us is definitely possible.”Muthoot Finance has 78% of its branches open and operational currently. They have seen higher footfalls in the last five days in their Bengaluru-based branches, besides spiking enquiries on gold loans. While there is more money now available to every gram of gold pawned, the loan-to-value remains between 60% to 75% while the mandated limit is 75%. On new borrowings, Manappuram’s Nandakumar said with the surge in gold prices, customers find borrowing against gold easier. However, for additional loans, the company insists on closing the existing loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-prices-encourage-gold-pledgers-to-redeem-and-resell-get-liquidity/articleshow/75563836.cms||Mamtha Asokan
May 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Many parents get emotional on seeing wards back from Kota||PATNA: It was a long wait for many parents who got emotional when their wards reached Danapur station by a special train from Kota in Rajasthan on Tuesday. Rajeev Lochan and his wife Madhumita Sinha were eagerly waiting for their son Ashish Raj, who was preparing for competitive exams for admission in IITs or any of the top engineering colleges. “We know that we can’t pick him up from here. We have come to have a glimpse of our son as we remained mentally disturbed along with my son ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. Only my son and another boy were left in the hostel. Everyone else had left,” Rajeev from Gola Road said, adding that he had got Ashish’s centre for examination changed to Patna from Kota so that he doesn’t need to go back. Tears rolled down the cheeks of Umesh Kumar, a state government employee. He was waiting for his daughter Palak Paridhi at Rupaspur police station where she was brought from the railway station. Umesh said his family remained tense during the last 40 days. Poonam Singh, who also reached Rupaspur police station to pick up her daughter Anamika, said she had lost her sleep. Now she was relaxed, Poonam said. Anamika said only she and nine others, all from Bihar, were stranded at the institute’s hostel. “Others from different states had gone back home. Hostel administration was continuously pressurising us to vacate the rooms as they were trying to close the hostel,” she added. Kumari Swati from New Jaganpura told TOI that she felt disheartened when other states brought their students back. “Only we 10 girls from Bihar were left behind. We were unable to go out to purchase even any important item during the lockdown,” she said. Her mother Sweta also returned with her from Kota. Sweta said she had gone there on March 21 to bring Swati back due to Covid-19 but got stranded due to the lockdown. Saurav Kumar Singh said he will not go to Kota again. “The mess was closed and poor quality food was being served to them at hostel,” Singh from Anisabad locality said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-parents-get-emotional-on-seeing-wards-back-from-kota/articleshow/75561474.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nine held as three women tonsured, paraded half-naked in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: The Muzaffarpur police on Tuesday arrested nine people for allegedly thrashing and tonsuring the heads of three women on suspicion of practising witchcraft. The incident had occurred at Dakrama village under the Hathauri police station area in the district on Monday evening. The scared victims have abandoned their houses and shifted elsewhere. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said nine people, including prime accused Shyam Sahni, have been arrested and raids are on to nab six others named in the FIR. Around 100 unidentified people have also been made accused as they remained mute spectators to the indient. A video showing three women aged 45, 50 and 55 years being thrashed by a mob and their heads being tonsured had gone viral on the social media. The victims were also paraded half-naked and made to consume human excreta in full public view. Locals said the women were subjected to torture on the directive of some people’s representatives, who were earlier approached by the family members of two minor children who had died under mysterious circumstances. “The incident took place around 6pm on Monday and the police arrested nine of the 15 named accused on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The barber, who had tonsured the heads of the women, is absconding,” the SSP said. He, however, lamented that there was no police chowkidar at the village, which is far off from the district headquarters. Moreover, neither the mukhiya nor sarpanch or any ward member informed the police about the incident, which took place despite nationwide lockdown and social distancing in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. SHO of Hathauri police station Jitendra Deo Deepak said the mob forced the victims to consume human excreta and paraded them half-naked in the village after tonsuring their heads. “The police lodged the complaint on the basis of the video, which has been sent to the regional forensic science laboratory at Muzaffarpur,” he added. Panchayat head of the village Ravindra Baitha said, “I was not present in my house at the time of the incident. I came to know about the incident when I returned home around 2am.” Condemning the incident, senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari said, “The incident shows that there is no rule of law in the state. It is strange how a large number of people gathered at the spot amid lockdown.” Former BJP MLA from Aurai Ram Surat Rai had also demanded action against the culprits. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-held-as-3-women-tonsured-paraded-half-naked-in-muz/articleshow/75561643.cms||Ramashankar
May 6, 2020||Business||Half of sensex’s April gains erased in 2 May sessions||Mumbai: In just two trading sessions in May, strong selling has wiped out half of sensex’s April gains of over 4,200 points. Drawing parallels with how the BSE benchmark had behaved during the peak of the global financial crisis in 2008, a section of market analysts say the rally in April was a “fool’s rally” meant to trap the gullible and the future is expected to be volatile with a downward bias till coronavirus pandemic-related issues settle down. Consider this: From its all-time high at 42,274 points on January 20 this year, the sensex crashed 39% to a multi-year low at 25,639 on March 23. Then the index made a rapid recovery till April 30 as it added 4,250 points or 32%. Thereafter, in just two sessions in May, the index has lost 2,264 points, or 7%, thus giving credence to the views by a section of analysts that the rally in April was a “fool’s rally”. The current sensex pattern — fall and rise and then again a fall — also has a marked resemblance to its 2008 trajectory, they said. Market players said March was the time when investors were fearful about the coronavirus, the unknown enemy. Then in April, most investors were showing some comfort from the fact governments were taking steps to contain its impact and also support economies through record stimulus packages. However, although the spread of the virus in some developed countries is coming under control, India is still lagging behind, which is giving rise to uncertainty about the country’s economy and markets. According to Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment advisory service company, “We are in uncertain times not only in India but also globally. In such circumstances, sharp volatility and irrational market movement would be the order of the day.” Meanwhile, the rupee on Tuesday recovered marginally by 9 paise to close at 75.63 against the US currency on increased risk appetite following easing China-US trade war concerns. The US dollar declined against major Asian currencies and the euro after a US official said that the country was not planning any punitive action against China over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/half-of-sensexs-april-gains-erased-in-2-may-sessions/articleshow/75565017.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Business||Cognizant to acquire Collaborative Solutions||Chennai: Cognizant Technology Solutions on Tuesday said that it has entered into an agreement to acquire consultancy firm Collaborative Solutions for an undisclosed sum. The privately-held company specialises in workday enterprise cloud applications for finance and human resources. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020 A statement from CTS said that the acquisition of Collaborative Solutions will add new finance and HR advisory and implementation services to Cognizant’s cloud offerings. “Running core applications in the cloud has never been more important,” said Greg Hyttenrauch, president, Digital Systems and Technology, Cognizant. “Workday is a critical enterprise cloud suite that gives finance, HR and other functions greater resiliency and agility. Collaborative Solutions, with its rich expertise and leading position in the Workday ecosystem, expands our opportunity in cloud. “As one of Workday’s longest-tenured services partners, we have expertise, depth, and proficiency in driving true finance and HR transformation. Together with Cognizant, we will provide even greater scope and scale, helping extend our capabilities for clients to accelerate innovation in their digital agendas and optimize their Workday investments” said Carroll Ross, CEO, Collaborative Solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-to-acquire-collaborative-solutions/articleshow/75563807.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Business||Over 50% banks agree on relief to micro lenders||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Over half of the bank lenders to the microfinance sector have extended a moratorium on their loans according to MFIN, an association of the institutions that provide micro loans. While some microfinance institutions (MFIs) have been granted a three-month break from repaying their instalments, others have received only partial moratorium on repayment of the principal. The willingness of banks to relax repayment rules is seen as an indication of their relative level of comfort in lending to this segment. One reason for this is that bank loans to MFIs qualify as priority sector loans. Also, much of microfinance lending is in the rural eastern part of the country that has more green zones. According to MFIN chairman Manoj Nambiar, the industry has informed the RBI that it will require Rs 10,000 crore to provide emergency loans to help borrowers come out of the stagnation arising out of the lockdown. Taken together with the regular loans, the funding requirement up to September 2020 would be around Rs 25,000 crore. “The RBI is aware of this and we are working with them and through all the other agencies to ensure that this is managed as it is of national importance,” said Nambiar. He was speaking at an online event ‘Changing panorama of financial inclusion post-Covid-19’ organised by Electronic Payment & Services. Nambiar, who is the MD of Arohan Financial Services, said the MFI industry deals with borrowers that face stress because of external events by providing emergency loans. “In Kerala, when there was a devastating flood, washing away livelihoods of micro borrowers, the sector responded by giving emergency loans and a moratorium, which helped nurse the entire customer segment back,” he said. He added the lockdown would open up a tremendous lending opportunity. The sector on its part would respond by providing credit at lower rates and passing on the benefits of cheaper refinance from Sidbi and Nabard to borrowers. According to Nambiar, the rate of interest does not play a major factor as access to finance and ability to increase turnover is more important. “A vegetable vendor who borrows to buy Rs 100 worth vegetables and sells them for Rs 110, generates an annualised return of 2500%. For them borrowing at 20% is not an issue,” he said. According to Nambiar, surveys have shown that two-thirds of borrowers still depend on informal moneylenders that charge 10% per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/over-50-banks-agree-on-relief-to-micro-lenders/articleshow/75565024.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 6, 2020||Business||Shops to provide cash withdrawal against UPI||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Shops that have been onboarded by lenders for acceptance of electronic payments can provide cash withdrawal facilities to customers of all banks using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). While no prior permission from the RBI is required for providing this facility, the central bank has said that this can be provided once banks approve merchants for the same after doing due diligence. This is similar to the cash-at-PoS service (cash-upon-card swipe), which the RBI had allowed banks to offer through shops without prior permission. Similar to cash-at-PoS, the UPI withdrawal is limited to a maximum amount of Rs 2,000 per customer. “The facility is made available at merchant establishments designated by the acquirer banks (i.e. the banks that deploy the PoS terminals) after a process of due diligence. The designated merchant establishments have to clearly indicate/display the availability of this facility along with the charges, if any, payable by the customer,” the RBI said in a statement. The withdrawal charges have been capped at 1%. Allowing shopkeepers to provide cash is expected to reduce the burden on the banking system amid the lockdown. Depositors do not need to queue up at bank branches or ATMs for withdrawal if their neighbourhood merchant provides cash. At the same time, the merchant need not visit the bank branch to deposit cash into his accounts as the amount he pays out will be transferred from the cardholder’s account to his own. Also, this facility provides an option to banks to reduce the increased pressure on their branches and ATMs in rural areas because of the government’s transfers into Jan Dhan accounts. Banks can enable shops to provide withdrawal facility through the 1% fee incentive. Currently, the government has waived all merchant charges on RuPay and UPI, which means that the merchant need not pay to receive funds through these instruments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shops-to-provide-cash-withdrawal-against-upi/articleshow/75565027.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Oppn playing politics instead of helping poor, says CM Yogi||Lucknow: In the midst of a controversy that migrants are being charged train or bus fares to return their home states, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday accused some political parties of “abhadrata” (indecency) by politicising small issues while the central and state governments were leaving no stone unturned in looking after workers. Without alluding to any specific party, Yogi in a video statement said the Opposition was trying to weaken the country’s fight against coronavirus and that people would pay it back to them. The CM’s statement comes in the light of Congress president Sonia Gandhi directing the party’s state units to get in touch with the chief secretaries of their respective states and offer to pay for the migrants’ tickets. On Tuesday, BSP chief Mayawati also offered to contribute towards the tickets. “While the Uttar Pradesh government is standing with the destitute, poor, and youth without discrimination, some political parties are indulging in the politics of selfishness instead of serving humanity. Those who used to usurp funds meant for the welfare of labourers, destitute and women during their tenure are now upset because money is actually reaching these people now,” he said. He said more than 6.50 lakh labourers and workers have been brought back to the state since the lockdown was imposed. The state has provided each of them with Rs 1,000, a ration kit and ensured that if they were not displaying any symptoms of Covid-19, they were taken back to their homes. More than 10,000 state transport buses had been deployed to take them home, free of charge, the CM said. Listing out action taken by the Centre and state, Yogi said that a PM Garib Kalyan package had been announced under which Rs 1.70 lakh crore was being transferred to accounts of poor, labourers, women and destitute. He added that the state government had released pensions in advance and also paid Rs 2,000 each to 2.34 crore farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-playing-politics-instead-of-helping-poor-says-cm-yogi/articleshow/75565235.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Patna||Congress MLC serves legal notice on Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi’s claim in his tweet on Sunday that RJD and Congress legislators have not contributed “even a single paisa” to the CM Relief Fund (CMRF) to help the government fight coronavirus stirred up a controversy on Tuesday with Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra serving a legal notice on the senior BJP leader. State Congress vice-president Rohit Kumar also submitted a complaint petition in the office of Patna SP on Tuesday against the deputy CM’s tweet. According to Mishra’s legal notice, Modi had made a false charge against the legislators of the two opposition parties. It has described the charges levelled by Modi as “defamatory” in nature intended to “lower the estimation/image (of Mishra) in the eyes of public.” Mishra has asked Modi to issue a public apology on the same social media platform and also withdraw the tweet. Mishra said he had paid part of his salary to the CMRF through a cheque on March 30. The Congress leader added that he had also made a recommendation to the planning and development department regarding the deduction of contribution to the CMRF from his LAD fund. Meanwhile, the deputy CM has refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-mlc-serves-legal-notice-on-sumo/articleshow/75561591.cms||Abhay Singh
May 6, 2020||Patna||Government to act on feedback from public representatives: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday that the participation of public representatives would be ensured in carrying out relief and other operations amid coronavirus outbreak. He said this in response to the suggestion of the leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav that the government should take their cooperation in combating coronavirus spread, as it would build trust among people. Nitish said the officials have noted down the suggestions made by leaders of different political parties and the government would act on the feedback accordingly. He said everyone should join hands in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Tejashwi and leaders of other political parties had an interactive session with the CM through videoconferencing. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi also deliberated. Tejashwi said public representatives had been sidelined and officials were not paying attention to their concerns. He also said the state government should put in public domain the details of the steps being taken by the central and state governments to mitigate the problems of people. He pitched for increasing the testing to detect coronavirus infection among people from the existing 1,300 tests per day to around 5,000. For this, dedicated hospitals should be identified at divisional towns as door-to-door survey would lead to nothing, because even asymptomatic people were found to be infected. He also suggested that random testing should be started. Tejashwi said IVR system-run telephones should be put into operation, so that even the illiterate migrant workers from the state could make their calls to register details for their tracking. He also drew the CM’s attention to the letter issued by Union home secretary on May 3, and pointed out that it would create hurdles in bringing back the migrant workers and, accordingly, the Centre should be requested to withdraw it. Modi said the central and state governments have been providing cash and other assistance worth Rs12,612 crore to the people of the state. Together, it would put Rs3,000 into the hands of each of the poor persons. The deputy CM said of the Rs12,612 crore, the central assistance is to the tune of Rs6,745 crore and that of the state government Rs5,867 crore. Modi also referred to the details regarding the foodgrain being supplied to ration card holders and gas cylinders under the Ujjwala Yojana, while the migrant workers coming from other states were being reimbursed the ticket fares and extra expenses during the journey, besides giving them Rs500 extra. Such workers were being given a minimum of Rs1000 each and could be more than this sum if the cost of ticket fares paid is more. Bihar legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary had convened the meeting on the advice of CM Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-act-on-feedback-from-public-representatives-nitish/articleshow/75561967.cms||Abhay Singh
May 6, 2020||Patna||Power consumption in Patna up 13 per cent despite lockdown||PATNA: Electricity consumption in the state capital increased by up to 13.6% in the last couple of days owing to rise in temperature, an energy department official said on Tuesday. The rise in power consumption during the lockdown period, though, has surprised many. The maximum power demand on Monday was 334megawatt (mw) at 8pm, the highest in the last 40 days since the lockdown was announced by the Centre. The power demand had dipped in the initial days of lockdown as all commercial establishments, malls, restaurants, hotels, coaching classes, hostels, educational institutions and industrial units were closed. Interestingly, the peak power demand is still low when compared to last year’s figures of above 400mw per day in April and May. Dilip Kumar Singh, general manager of Patna Electric Supply Undertaking (PESU), said the electricity demand would further increase as temperature has started to rise. “The average peak demand is increasing as many households have started using air- conditioners and coolers. The peak demand was low in April compared to the same month last year. It varied in the range of 250mw to 320mw per day,” Singh said. He added, “As the commercial establishments are still closed due to extended lockdown till May 17, there won’t be much change in peak power demand. Before the lockdown, the peak power demand stood at 360mw on March 21,” Singh said. According to PESU data, the maximum power demand in the city was 320MW on Sunday, 294mw on May 2 and 298mw on May 1. Another energy department official said though overloading of transformers is generally witnessed in May, no such case has been reported from any district in the state so far. The state recorded peak power demand of 4,100mw on Sunday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/power-consumption-up-13-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75561849.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Cong sets up control rooms for workers||On the call of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday formed a state-level committee, and control rooms at the division and the district level to assist and coordinate the movement of migrant workers. State -level control room number is 0141-2361355, 2379164, fax number is 0141- 2379164, 2361369. Mobile number is — 9413349787, 9314503601 and the email is pccrajasthan@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-sets-up-control-rooms-for-workers/articleshow/75565228.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Patna||Matric exams: BSEB to resume evaluation work from Wednesday||PATNA: The evaluation of answer copies of matriculation exams would resume on Wednesday at more than 170 centres across the state, Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) announced late Monday evening. The results are expected to be released by mid-May. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said social distancing would be maintained at all the evaluation centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We would occupy more rooms at each evaluation centre as all the schools are closed due to the lockdown. There would be minimum 2 metres distance between two evaluators in each room,” he said. Around 75% evaluation of answer copies of class X had been done before the lockdown announced by the Centre. Since the contractual teachers have called off their indefinite strike on Monday after a meeting with additional chief secretary of education department, RK Mahajan, they would also join the evaluation duty. Over 4.5 lakh teachers of government schools had been on strike since March 17. Kishor said BSEB would assign evaluation duty to the contractual teachers, who have joined the work. “However, it is early to say when the class results would be announced, but it will be in this month only,” he said. Altogether 15,29,393 students, including 7,83,034 girls, wrote class X exams in February at 1,368 exam centres in Bihar. Earlier, on March 24, BSEB had declared the Intermediate results in a record time. The overall pass percentage this year was 80.44%, which was slightly improved by 0.68% compared to 79.76% last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/matric-exams-bseb-to-resume-evaluation-work-from-today/articleshow/75561987.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 6, 2020||Patna||Government decision to bring back citizens stuck abroad hailed||PATNA: Many people in Bihar heaved a sigh of relief after the Centre’s announcement on Monday that India would start bringing back its citizens stranded abroad from May 7. Indians stranded in the Middle East countries will be brought back first. Several people are longing to see their wards and family members, who have been stuck abroad due to travel restrictions owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Kashfa Salim (28), who is in Oman with her husband, said she was worried about her parents who live in Aminabad Colony in Patna. “We had booked our flight tickets for Patna via Delhi on March 28. However, due to sudden lockdown and travel restrictions, we couldn’t return. I’m much relieved now,” Kashfa said. Sujit Thakur of Lalganj in Vaishali said his son Chandan has been stranded in Dammam for the last two months. “We are a poor family. My son went to Dammam in search of a job after completing mechanical engineering course. But he couldn’t find a job owing to lockdown. I don’t know the procedure to bring him back from abroad. We need government’s help,” he said over phone. Neshat Ahmad, who lives in Saudi Arabia, said he has not been paid his salary for the last two months. “I’m using my savings to buy essential items and pay the rent. I’m glad that the central government is going to evacuate Indians stranded in Gulf countries,” he said. “We are eagerly waiting to return to my hometown Patna and in regular contact with the embassy here. I make a video call to my parents every day, but I really want to return home as the university won’t open before July,” said Qaiser, who is doing post-doctoral researcher at University of Toulouse, France. Arvind Verma of Bhootnath Road, whose son studies in the USA, is also elated and waiting for his son’s return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-decision-to-bring-back-citizens-stuck-abroad-hailed/articleshow/75561924.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 6, 2020||Business||Fresh bank credit dives 64% in FY20||MUMBAI: Banks gave out fresh credit, through bonds and loans, of only Rs 6 lakh crore in FY20 — a drop of 64% from Rs 16.8 lakh crore that they handed out to borrowers in FY19. Bank loans shrank due to an economic slowdown, deleveraging by corporates coupled with the fact that lenders were closed for business for the last week of March, which is their busiest week in any year. According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), there has been a sharp drop in bank investment in non-government debt, which has accentuated the slowdown in the flow of resources to the corporate sector. Banks ended FY20 with outstanding loans of Rs 103 lakh crore, which is an increase of only 5.8% over Rs 97.26 lakh crore in the previous year. If deposit growth was low, the growth in corporate bond investments was equally sluggish at 5% with the value of outstanding investments at Rs 32.2 lakh crore. Investment in commercial papers declined 28% to Rs 3.45 lakh crore. “The sharp decline in incremental credit during FY2020 was driven by slowing economic growth as well as heightened risk-aversion among lenders,” said ICRA group head (financial sector ratings) Karthik Srinivasan. Also, corporates and non-banking finance companies have replaced some of their domestic loans with external borrowings (ECBs). Approvals of ECBs rose 70% year-on-year as of February 2020 and stood at $58.2 billion compared to $34.2 billion in the 12 months ending February 2019. The break-up of bank credit into sectors shows that up to end February 2020, loans to the metals segment have shrunk while personal loans have driven bank credit. According to Srinivasan, bank credit would rise faster in FY20. “The expectations of an increase in incremental credit flow during FY21 is driven by increased credit demand amid weakening cash flows of borrowers because of Covid-19 induced stress,” he said. The capitalisation of interest for the period of moratorium offered by lenders during the lockdown would also increase outstanding loans. ICRA has said that incremental credit flow from banks, through commercial papers (CPs) and corporate bonds outstanding could rise by Rs 7.3-9.7 lakh crore during FY21. This will be a sequential growth of 22-61% over FY20, albeit on a low base of Rs 6 lakh crore. Another driver of bank credit during the current year could be the lower reliance on external borrowing coupled with the RBI providing banks cheap refinance through targeted long-term repo operations to invest in corporate bonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fresh-bank-credit-dives-64-in-fy20/articleshow/75564979.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Cial prepares action plan||Kochi: Kochi: The Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) is making elaborate arrangements to receive thousands of Malayalis who will be landing in Kochi in the coming weeks. Phase one of the evacuation begins on Thursday, and a total of 10 flights will reach Kochi from different countries, mostly the Gulf and Southeast Asia, till May 13 with around 2,150 passengers. Cial will handle the largest number of evacuees compared with Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode airports. The Centre is making extensive preparations to implement the evacuation standard operation procedure in keeping with its Covid-19 health protocol. Health screening will be mandatory for all passengers and the symptomatic will be shifted to hospitals in special ambulances. Others will be shifted to quarantine facilities. Also, instead of passengers filling up forms on arrival, their details and declarations will be stored in computers to avoid physical contact. Also, fibre-glass panels will shield officials at immigration counters and queuing areas from direct contact with passengers. A three-phased disinfection project is ongoing at the terminals. Mock drills for testing different systems were completed over the last three days. Apart from infrared thermometer guns, the process of installing thermal scanners is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-prepares-action-plan/articleshow/75562394.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Kerala is containment zone||AHMEDABAD: Among the Indian states, Kerala has been applauded across the globe for its containment strategy with regard to Covid-19. But, Gujarat’s Kerala projects a different picture — finding itself marked with red colour in the list of containment areas, though it is not a hotspot of positive cases. This tiny village is situated 40-odd kilometres from Ahmedabad. In completely contrast to Kerala state, this village is surrounded by a sprawling industrial zone, the GIDC. As entire Ahmedabad district has been marked as red zone, Kerala too faces complete restrictions on human movement and commercial activities. This village has got only one active Covid-19 positive case, and has been meted out with rather harsh treatment. On Sunday, Ahmedabad district collector placed 125 families, some 413 persons, in B R Steel Pvt Ltd area in the village under containment. Besides, the extended village area of 30 families has been placed in the buffer zone. The district collector has marked 16 containment areas in rural areas of Ahmedabad district on the basis of 28 active Covid-19 positive cases. There are 9,284 people of 2,511 families who are in containment areas. In buffer zones, there are 11,883 people in 3,266 families. In all, there are 54 Covid-19 positive cases in rural Ahmedabad as compared to over 4,000 positive cases detected from Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-kerala-is-containment-zone/articleshow/75564717.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Reps of two sweet stores lodge plaints||Alleging that unidentified miscreants have been circulating rumours on WhatsApp stating that their employees have tested positive for Covid-19, representatives of two popular sweet store chains in the city lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police on Tuesday. According to the complainants, the messages on WhatsApp stated that five workers from the two sweet and snacks shops have tested positive for coronavirus.  “Based on the two complaints, we have registered a case under Sections 188, 269 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act,” said cybercrime Assistant Commissioner of Police KVM Prasad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reps-of-two-sweet-stores-lodge-plaints/articleshow/75564748.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Patna||Poll deferred, 17 Bihar Legislative Council seats to fall vacant on Wednesday||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has now begun affecting the strength of even state legislature as altogether 17 seats in the 75-member Bihar Legislative Council are going to fall vacant on May 6 (Wednesday) with no sign of holding elections in near future. The Election Commission has deferred the council polls for these seats due to ‘unforeseen situation of public health’ and consequent lockdown. The seats falling vacant constitute more than 22% of the strength of state legislative council. Of the 17 members whose six years term is ending on May 6, nine were elected from the Vidhan Sabha constituency, four from graduates’ constituency while another four from teachers’ constituency in 2014. Council’s deputy chairman Haroon Rashid, who is also acting chairman, is one of the 17 members whose term will end on Wednesday. His retirement as the council member will lead to vacancy on both posts of chairman and deputy chairman. The chairman’s post is vacant since May 9, 2017 when its last incumbent Awadesh Narayan Singh vacated the chair. “I will vacate the office of the acting chairman on May 6, if Council elections are not held on time,” Rashid had told TOI earlier. Rashid did not respond to a phone call on Tuesday. As per the constitutional provisions, the governor, on the advice of the state government, nominates a Council member as acting chairman in case of vacancy on both posts of chairman and deputy chairman. “The state government has so far not sent any advice to the governor in this regard,” sources in Raj Bhavan told TOI on Tuesday. “The state government may send its advice to the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday,” a council official said. Besides Rashid, other prominent persons whose term as MLC will be completed on May 6 are building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar and state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha. While issuing a fresh notification for biennial election to the Maharashtra legislative council on May 1, the Election Commission said it would review other deferred elections next week. When contacted, Bihar CEO H R Srinivasa said the state commission has so far not taken any decision about holding the biennial election to the Bihar council. “We have so far not received any communication from the Election Commission of India,” he told TOI on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-deferred-17-bihar-legislative-council-seats-to-fall-vacant-on-wednesday/articleshow/75561530.cms||Madan Kumar
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Ensure best facilities for Covid-19 patients, says Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday emphasised that there should be no lapses in the treatment of Covid-19 patients and all facilities required for their treatment must be ensured at hospitals dedicated for Coronavirus. Reviewing the Corobavirus situation in the state, he directed to start treatment of Coronavirus cases at trauma centre in Ujjain and said constant vigil should be maintained on the condition of Coronavirus patients. If required, advice of experts from Bhopal and Indore should be elicited in case of serious patients. Death rate should not be allowed to rise under any circumstances. An expert from AIIMS, Bhopal, was asked to visit Ujjain during the meeting at the behest of the chief minister. Chouhan appreciated Chirayu Hospital at Bhopal and Sri Aurbindo Hospital at Indore for taking proper care of Coronavirus patients and urged all hospitals treating Coronavirus patients to give the best treatment possible. It was informed at the meeting that four more medical colleges in Jabalpur, Ratlam, Shahdol, Vidisha and Khandwa will perform tests for Covid-19 cases. The chief minister said that more tests should be conducted to identify Coronavirus patients. As of now, 3000 tests are being conducted daily and it would go up to 3,500 by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ensure-best-facilities-for-covid-patients-says-cm/articleshow/75564712.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Fracture fails to break his commitment to duty||VADODARA: Seeing him sitting on a chair at DandiyA Bazaar crossroads, anyone would feel that he is resting in this blistering heat. But go closer and the sight is inspiring. Assistant sub-inspector Santosh Narayanrao has been ensuring lockdown despite having fracture in his leg as well as lower jaw. On April 11, Narayanrao, 31, was knocked down by an unidentified vehicle near Dandiya Bazaar when he was going home for lunch. He suffered fracture in the leg, lower jaw and had to take 12 stitches above his left eye. Narayanrao does not how the accident occurred, but barely had he recovered, the cop asked the doctors how soon could he join the duty. “There were stitches on my forehead, multiple fractures and a crack on one of my toes. I asked the doctor if I could keep my leg straight and join work,” said Narayanrao. The doctor allowed him on the condition that he should not take much strain. His family members were obviously not amused. “Family members will of course not like this, but the current situation is different. Retired cops and soldiers have joined us in ensuring implementation of lockdown and senior officials of IPS-rank are also working round-the-clock, so it was necessary that I also remain in field,” Narayanrao told TOI. The ASI sits on a chair and keeps vigil at Dandiya Bazaar crossroads. “I stand in for a junior cop if he wants to take a water break or when the traffic is more in the morning,” he added. Narayanrao also does most of the paperwork like drafting the FIR against those caught flouting social distancing in public. Deputy commissioner of police, Sandeep Chaudhary, said, “He is doing a tremendous job even in this condition, which makes us proud. Also, he inspires us to continue to work more in these hard times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fracture-fails-to-break-his-commitment-to-duty/articleshow/75560929.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Patna||File status report on stuck students: Patna high court||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday directed central as well as state government to file a status report on the situation after special trains being allowed to bring students stuck in Kota back to Bihar. The division bench of Justices Hemant Kumar Srivastava and Rajendra Kumar Mishra, while hearing a batch of four writ petitions through videoconferencing, fixed the matter for May 11. Appearing for state government, additional advocate general Anjani Kumar submitted that the matter had become infructuous as whatever relief was sought in all writ petitions had been redressed. Kumar also submitted that special trains are being run from Kota to bring back the students and the state government has also decided to issue passes to bring back students by private vehicles. Additional solicitor general SD Sanjay, appearing for the central government, also apprised the court about orders issued on April 29 allowing movement of students in Kota, migrant workers and others stranded outside state. Sanjay also submitted that special trains from Kota and other places had also been allowed for children as well as migrant workers. He also said 24 special trains are scheduled to reach Bihar by May 6. However, the court sought a status report from the Centre as well as state after the petitioners’ counsel submitted that more students might be left behind after May 6. Pawan Kumar, Prakash Tiwary and Nelam Deo from Patna, Muzaffarpur and East Champaran respectively have moved the court seeking relief that either they be allowed or ask government to bring their children back from Kota. Besides, advocate Ajay Thakur had filed a PIL for bring back students stranded in Kota and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/file-status-report-on-stuck-students-hc/articleshow/75561897.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 6, 2020||Patna||1150 students, 2345 migrant workers reach Danapur stn||PATNA: Altogether 1,150 students stranded in Kota and 2345 migrant workers from Bengaluru reached Danapur railway station by three special trains on Tuesday. The students suffered hardships and mental stress as their coaching institutes and hostel mess had been closed since the nationwide lockdown announced from March 25 owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The students reached Danapur at 1pm. They were medically screened stamped ‘home quarantine’ mark on their arms before being sent by bus to their respective police stations from where parents were allowed to pick them up. Each student was provided with a lunch packet, a fruit juice and a bottle of drinking water on the station premises. Two more special trains carrying migrant workers from Bengaluru reached Danapur at 10am and 11.30pm respectively. They were sent by bus to their respective home districts where they would have to remain in 21-day quarantine before being allowed to go home. Patna DM Kumar Ravi and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma themselves supervised the arrangements at Danapur. When asked, the DM said the 1150 students reaching here from Kota were all from Patna. “The administration procured 100 trolleys from the city airport for the students to carry their luggages from platform to the buses. Besides, East Central Railway (ECR) deployed 50 porters, who were actually on leave, for helping the students. In addition, 15 civil defence staff and several daily wagers were arranged to assist the students in moving their luggages,” he said. The DM said the administration took an undertaking from each of the students for remaining home quarantined for 21 days. “They have been provided a copy of it for handing over to their parents. Stickers would be pasted outside their residences to alert neighbours about their quarantine,” Ravi said. The DM cited a central government’s order that anyone even mildly positive for Covid-19 would be kept in home quarantine on condition of availability of infrastructure. “Following that order, the students have been put in home quarantine instead of sending them to quarantine centres,” he said. Meanwhile, more than 75 police stations across Patna were circulated the list of these students on Monday night to remain prepared. Police personnel maintained a register and noted the name and contact number of parents who reached Danapur to pick up their wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1150-students-2345-migrant-workers-reach-danapur-stn/articleshow/75561334.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan yet to fix date for free travel of labourers||JAIPUR: Following complaints of overcharging by private bus operators, the Rajasthan government will soon make arrangements for free transport for the migrant labourers to send them to their respective destinations. Till the government formalises the plan, the migrants who want to leave will have to bear their own travel expenses and should not pay above the prescribed rates advised to them. “We will take strict action against the guilty if even a single penny is overcharged by the private bus operators,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner. There have been reports about bus operators charging upto 3-5 times higher than the usual fare forcing many to sell their belongings while others have cancelled their travel due to shortage of funds. Narrating his ordeal, Sameer Pathan of Sapoul district in Bihar paid Rs 4,500 against Rs 1,200 bus fare from Jaipur. “I didn’t have more than Rs 2,000 when I boarded the bus. I requested my supervisor in Jaipur to pay the remaining amount to the bus operator to secure my travel,” said Pathan on phone from his home. Jain is said to have directed his flying squad team to take action against bus operators who don’t follow the fare matrix given to them. As per the fare matrix table, passengers need to pay Rs 32 and Rs 40 per km collectively for non-AC and AC buses respectively. The scribe tried to contact transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas but got no response. Since May 2, around 100 buses have been ferrying migrant workers to Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh every day. At present, the migrants are forming district-wise groups and hiring the buses themselves while taking permits from RTO. Meanwhile, it is yet to be decided whether the state will run its own fleet of buses or allow private buses and reimburse them. “This scheme is only for migrant workers and their families, and not for non-migrant workers,” said Jain. Asked about how will the officials identify whether someone is a migrant worker or not, Jain replied, “From appearance, we can make out who is a shramik (worker) and who is not”. Every day over 50 buses, including private ones hired by the state government, ferry migrant workers to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-yet-to-fix-date-for-free-travel-of-labourers/articleshow/75565236.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||ICH suspends admission to NICU, OPD services as 12 nurses test +ve||KOLKATA: The Institute of Child Health (ICH) has decided to close new admissions in the NICU and suspend OPD services temporarily after 12 nurses, who were attached with the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), tested positive to Covid-19. The emergency services, however, will continue to function normally. Two more Group D workers of the hospital too have tested positive. “The NICU is in a separate building. We will continue treatment of the children at NICU till we find a safe place to shift them,” said paediatrician Apruba Ghosh, director ICH. There are seven children at the NICU currently, their swab samples too will be tested before shifting them. A few days ago, a nurse from the NICU unit had tested positive. The hospital had kept 17 healthcare workers attached to the NICU under quarantine and their samples were tested. One of the most reputable hospitals for children in the state, the hospital administration has been running its services despite the financial and manpower constraints due to the lockdown. “We had converted few wards for accommodation of healthcare workers, including nurses, housekeeping staffers so that we could continue to provide services,” said Ghosh. Ghosh himself had given up his office room to accommodate the accountant, so had all departmental heads to convert their rooms for accommodating healthcare workers. The seminar room, auditorium and an emergency surgery OT are being used as dormitory for around 50 employees from far flung places who are putting up on the hospital premises. Doctors, including Prabhash Prasun Giri and Aniruddha Ghosh, who drive from home, are regularly picking up nurses and ward boys on way to hospital and handing over the car to hospital drivers to fetch more healthworkers once they reach the hospital. “It is a tough time. But in no way we could close down services because of the constraints. But we are not sure how long we can pull through,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, PICU in-charge. Seven children are being taken care at the PICU currently. The team even managed to raise funds for the prolonged treatment of a child whose parents were unable to foot the bill. The child was sent home cured during the lockdown. Meanwhile, another healthcare worker attached with College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Medical College has tested positive to Covid-19. About twelve close contacts have been put under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ich-suspends-admission-to-nicu-opd-services-as-12-nurses-test-ve/articleshow/75563821.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh no more Covid-free, CHC doctor, peon infected||Rajkot: Junagadh district that has remained Covid-19 free till date registered its first two cases on Tuesday, a day after restrictions were lifted and life was returning to normal.These include a doctor and a peon, both posted at the community health centre (CHC) in Bhesan taluka.Junagadh health officials suspect that the 35-year-old doctor and 42-year-old peon got infected by people who might have come to Bhesan from South Gujarat cities after the movement restrictions were relaxed.“Many people in Bhesan and Visavadar talukas are residing in South Gujarat and some of them recently came back to their native. We suspect that the two cases we have might have been infected by one of the patient who returned from South Gujarat when he or she came to see the doctor. We are conducting contact tracing of all patients examined by the doctor,” said Junagadh collector P S Zamsingh.According to district officials, around 400 people have come in contact with the doctor and the peon who are now under quarantine.Meanwhile, a jawan of the state reserve police (SRP) who came from Ahmedabad tested positive in Gondal town of Rajkot on Tuesday. The 56-year-old jawan was posted in Ahmedabad since January and had come back to his native at 2am on Tuesday with 32 other jawans in a bus. Officials said the jawan was posted at school no-1 in Shahibaug in Ahmedabad along with six others. In Bhavnagar, two more including a six-year-old tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 76||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-no-more-covid-free-chc-doctor-peon-infected/articleshow/75562370.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Sun shines but residents don’t get enough Vitamin D||CHENNAI: With scientists across the world trying to figure out if there is a link between higher Vitamin D levels and better recovery from Covid19 – a cursory search online would throw up dozens of studies such as the US trying a combination of Vitamins C, D and Zinc for prevention to a French clinical trial on the higher mortality of older Vitamin D-deficient infected adults -- the spotlight is now trained on the sunshine vitamin. And yet, in a city with an abundance of sunshine, it’s surprising that a recent study has found that most adult Chennaiites are sorely deficient in the vital and possibly life-saving nutrient. The study conducted by Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre and published in this month’s edition of British Journal of Nutrition, with a sample size of 1,500 individuals aged between 35 and 55, found that over half of them (55%) were Vitamin D deficient. "We surveyed people without diabetes as well as those with pre-diabetes and diabetes," says diabetologist Dr V Mohan. Around 60% of the pre-diabetics and 63% of those with diabetes were found to have low levels of Vitamin D. Among the obese, almost 80% had Vitamin D deficiency. "If there is a Vitamin D deficiency, immunity levels go down, which can make one susceptible to infections. Also, people who are obese or have diabetes are more vulnerable to Covid-19," says Dr Mohan. Another study published in the journal Cell Metabolism in April says people with diabetes are at greater risk of poor recovery from Covid-19, but those with well controlled blood sugars fare better. The study found that women had 1.6 times higher Vitamin D deficiency than men. "This is because in many households women don’t exercise outdoors. Also they tend to cover up more than men because of a fear of tanning," says Dr Mohan. It’s not that difficult to nourish our bodies with this vital vitamin, says Meenakshi Bajaj, dietician, Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital. "All one needs to do is stand in the sun for about 15 minutes between 11am and 2pm." "As we age, the body produces fewer immune cells required to fight infections. The ageing population needs to build up their immune responses. Vitamin D has a critical role in regulating the immune system. It’s a nutrient and a hormone and helps prevent infections," says Bajaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sun-shines-but-residents-dont-get-enough-vitamin-d/articleshow/75564733.cms||Kamini Mathai
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Expats upset over no evacuation flights from Gulf to state||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts will not receive any Indian expatriates stranded in the Gulf, in the first wave of evacuations, according to the ministry of external affairs (MEA). This has left thousands of expatriates, from the state, working in Gulf countries fuming, as not a single flight from the Gulf countries will land in Karnataka in the first week of the evacuations. According to details which the MEA communicated to the ministry of civil aviation, only three flights will bring Indians stranded abroad back to Karnataka. One of these flights will bring back Indians stranded in the United Kingdom on day 2 of when the evacuation flights commence, one of the flights will bring stranded Indians from the USA on day five to the state, and a flight from Singapore will bring stranded Indians from there to Karnataka on Day 6. “This shows the government’s step-motherly treatment towards Kannadigas working in Gulf countries. Despite several requests to the state government, it has fallen on deaf ears. We are anxious to return home due to unpaid leaves and loss of jobs, due to which we cannot make ends meet here,” complained an expatriate. Thousands of expatriates working in Gulf countries have been laid off by their employees recently, in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, and a lot of them have not been paid their salaries since lockdowns were clamped in those countries. Another expatriate demanded that the Karnataka government should at least request the Union government to evacuate senior citizens, those who are ailing, and pregnant women living in Gulf countries, at the earliest. Sources from Indian embassies in Gulf countries said that flights to evacuate expatriates from Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts from Gulf countries to Karnataka, are in subsequent slots. They added it is the largest overseas evacuation of stranded Indians post-Independence. According to evacuation details of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), it will bring about 14,800 Indian nationals stranded in 13 foreign countries by 64 flights, starting from Thursday. Indians will be flown in from the Philippines, USA, Bangladesh, UAE, UK, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Singapore, US, Oman, Bahrain and Kuwait. They will land in airports in Chennai, Kochi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru (expatriates only from UK, US and Singapore), Delhi, Kochi, Lucknow and other locations. According to officials, all these passengers will be screened before embarking on their journey to India. They have to fill a self-reporting form, stating about their health condition and other details. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that about 15,000 expatriates from Karnataka have registered to be evacuated, out of which about 3,000 expatriates are from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. The highest number of requests for evacuations from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have come from the energy-rich Gulf countries. She stressed that district is completely prepared to welcome the expatriates, and that all arrangements have been made for them to be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/expats-upset-over-no-evacuation-flights-from-gulf-to-state/articleshow/75562396.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||‘Corona Chacha’ spreads awareness about Covid-19 in Doiwala with catchy slogans, one-liners||Dehradun: Those waiting in a queue for their turn to purchase liquor at the Government Wine and Whisky Shop in Doiwala on Tuesday jumped out of their skins when a voice announced on a loudspeaker “No alcohol for those not wearing masks”. Everyone instantly covered their faces with whatever they could find. In a few minutes, a group of men wearing masks made to resemble the novel coronavirus emerged, carrying placards of relevant advice dispensed by ‘Corona Chacha’, a character that has been created by the Doiwala municipal council to drive home the message of social distancing and other precautions to be taken against Covid-19. The idea of the character is the brainchild of Vijay Chauhan, the executive officer of Doiwala municipal council who also dresses up for the part, complete with a blazing red mask depicting the virus and carrying a mace made to look like the dreaded contagion. As he moves around with his team, he talks to people and tries to sensitise them about the disease, mainly through catchy slogans and one-liners. For instance, one of the slogans attributed to Corona Chacha goes, “Mask pehno har din bhatije … warna honge corona positive natije (Wear mask, dear nephew, else you will test coronavirus positive).” Chauhan says he wanted to reach out to people in a manner that was effective which is why, he hit upon the idea of creating a character that dispenses one-liners that get people’s attention. “I participated in slogan writing competitions in college. When the pandemic hit our state, I decided to put that talent to good use,” he said with a smile, adding, “Research shows that the coronavirus is highly contagious and spreads easily. There is no vaccine to prevent it. Awareness is the only weapon we have but I believe many people are still not taking it seriously. So we decided to do our bit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corona-chacha-spreads-awareness-about-covid-19-in-doiwala-with-catchy-slogans-one-liners/articleshow/75562399.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Cops ask Broadway traders to down shutters for now||Kochi: Uncertainty looms over the future of traders at Broadway as they are yet to get a clarity on operating the shops here which have remained shut for over a month due to the lockdown. Even as shops got opened in the city owing to the relaxations in place as the district is in green zone, police on Monday morning made shopkeepers at Broadway shut their shops due to the close proximity of shops in the area. Police said it would be difficult to maintain social distancing at such an area. “We have asked the shopkeepers to shut down till an alternate arrangement is made,” said a senior police officer. On Monday, there was an unusual rush in the city with most traffic signals remaining operational. Shops across the city also remained open. In Ernakulam market also, the main vegetable market was abuzz with activity. However, the main stretch of Broadway from the entrance at CSI church till the entrance at Menaka remained deserted as almost all shops were shut. State president of Kerala steel traders’ association and former general secretary of the Merchant Chamber of Commerce Mohammed Sageer said that a solution has to be found soon as traders, who are already struck by the loss due to the lockdown, are set to take an even hefty blow, when their stock becomes unusable. He added that officials have mooted different options like keeping some shops open and closing the others but a clear official order is awaited. “We have been promised that a clear government order would be out soon. We get some business when a few shops are opened together and the customer walks through and purchase from one of these shops. Either we have to shut them all or open them all. We have told the officials that in wholesale textile sales there is no practice of going for trials and that there was no need to worry about people trying out cloths. Maybe they can fix particular days in a week for the business to function,” said Sageer, adding that he hopes that there would be a clarity on the issue soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-ask-broadway-traders-to-down-shutters-for-now/articleshow/75550274.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||711 containment zones in Tamil Nadu, government notifies guidelines||CHENNAI: The government on Tuesday notified 711 containment zones including 189 in Chennai, where positive cases and clusters have been reported, and is set to come up with a new list every week. It also notified guidelines for delineating zones based on mapping and geographic dispersion of cases and contacts. A containment zone in an urban area with a single case or less than five positive cases is a street with residence of a positive case, or a stretch where a positive case resides. And, if the residence happens to be in the corner of a street, the adjoining street too is a containment zone. In rural areas, it could be an entire village or village panchayat. If a cluster (with five or more positive cases), falls in a ward, the ward is a containment zone. If the residence borders the ward, adjoining wards come under it. Demarcating containment zones is the key to breaking the chain of transmission in red and orange zones. "The districts have been doing it already, but containment zones have been notified now based on the Centre’s instruction. We will notify colour coding of districts too weekly wise," chief secretary K Shanmugam told TOI. If a cluster falls in a town panchayat, the whole local body will be a containment zone. In gated communities/hostels and apartment complexes, epidemiological factors will be considered. "If the containment period of a zone (28 days if no active case is reported from the confirmation of last positive case) ends, the state will denotify it in the next list every Monday/Tuesday," Shanmugam said. About 0.5km radius will be demarcated as buffer zone in rural areas, while geospatial spread and ground realities will be considered for urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/711-containment-zones-in-tn-govt-notifies-guidelines/articleshow/75564750.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Not so close, she may tell him||Chennai: There is uncertainty in the Tamil film world, as in other fields, about when the Covid-19 pandemic will end. What is certain though is that, with social distancing norms to be followed, things will not be the same again. There may be no kissing or hugging scenes. The usual crowds at shooting spots could also disappear.The Kerala government has allowed editing as well as post-production work and dubbing with limited crew, and Tamil Nadu too is slowly opening up. Blue Ocean Film and Television Academy (BOFTA) dean G Dhananjayan, a producer himself, says several producers had appealed to the state government to allow them to resume work and promised to strictly adhere to distancing rules. "Wearing masks will become the norm on the sets and removed only when the situation warrants." The whole dynamics of shooting will have to change and actors may insist on filming independent scenes, he adds.In fact, it could be a return to the time, in the 1950s and 1960s, when actors rarely touched each other and love was conveyed through such actions, now considered corny, as flowers swaying close to each other or two dolls hugging one another. For actors like P Bhanumathi, intimate scenes were strict a no-no and even the iconic M G Ramachandran thought twice before suggesting such sequences to her, say industry insiders.Even now, say insiders, several heroines detest lip-lock scenes and directors like Vetrimaaran and Mari Selvaraj come up with scripts dealing with social issues and where romance takes a backseat. There is no one way to express romance, says ‘Ratchasan’ director Ram Kumar. "Showing love can be done subtly. New age cinema has less of vulgarity and more of reasoning. Facial expression and power of writing is key. We still have family audience who cringe at seeing smooching and spitting scenes. Why pay to watch something that is uncomfortable?"Pointing out that he didn’t have drinking or smoking scenes in his films as a policy, Ram Kumar says, "While directing ‘Ratchasan’, I could have had smoking scenes because the protagonist was mostly nervous or frustrated, but I introduced audio and video effects.""Getting intimate,"" adds Dhananjayan, "is not the selling point for a movie. What matters is how good your content is. Kissing scenes, even otherwise, can be avoided."Director Karu Pazhaniappan says what is important is feeding the poor and that he is not concerned about what the hero and heroine will do on screen. "Anyway, if 200 movies come out, maybe two or three will have kissing scenes. Cinema has matured that way. Right now, I am worried about the stranded guest workers and when I hear about people walking 2,000km to reach their hometown, my heart bleeds. My priority is those people who have nothing to look forward to," he says.Maintaining distancing, however, will be difficult, points out producer Srinivasan Shivpprasadh, nephew of Tamil stage doyen R S Manohar. "… For a solo shot to happen, a minimum of 20 people are required to be on the set," he says, adding that no production company can begin a project without pomp and pageantry as it has to publicise the content to make profits. "Empty theatres are infested by rats which have eaten through the cushioned seats. How can one-seat spacing happen in theatres like the aviation sector has proposed for planes? Movies are seen by people to enjoy togetherness. As things stand by anything is possible only in January," says Shivpprasadh.A source on a condition of anonymity says artists should be careful. "Junior artists have one makeup man who uses the same sponge, cream or water for all. From clapboard to cameramen, it is impractical to follow social distancing. For cinema to get back to its feet, the only option now is OTT platforms just like Suriya did for ‘Ponmagal Vanthal’, though he received brickbats for the move."Others say the concept of caravan could come in handy. Rain scenes will have to be avoided and no artist will take the risk of coming out, especially when awareness is high, they say. "No one can compel them until everything normalises. Importantly, the way forward will be strict. Perhaps, untouched rural areas will be their destination. Filmmakers may explore the interiors of cities and districts with caution. Unity in the industry also matters."A few optimistic people though are preparing for the rush when the lockdown is lifted and theatres open. Among those are the makers of ‘Kabadadaari’ directed by Pradeep Krishnamoorthy and starring Sibi Sathyaraj, Nasser and Nandita in key roles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-so-close-she-may-tell-him/articleshow/75564743.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Heart patients opting for clot busters instead of angioplasty||JAIPUR: While Covid-19 cases are on the rise, cardiac emergencies have dipped as most doctors are combating heart ailments with clot busters. Rather than angiography, doctors and patients are unanimously preferring clot busters and thus avoid being admitted to hospital fearing corona infection. The dip in heart attack cases after coronavirus outbreak has surprised doctors. “We have performed only one cardiac surgery in emergency in the past one month. Normally, we perform at least daily four to five such surgeries in emergency of patients with cardiac arrest. We are not aware why there is a decline in the number of such patients,” said Dr Anil Sharma, head of the department (cardiothoracic surgery), SMS Hospital, who had conducted two heart transplants early this year. However, Sharma claimed that patients are opting for clot busters such as streptokinase to avoid angioplasty and hospitalisation. “Two of my patients informed me that they had injected streptokinase injections for clot busters in their heart at the hospital near to their homes. There condition has improved,” said Dr Sharma. Even private hospitals are surprised about declining cardiac arrest patients. “Due to Covid-19 fear and lockdown, a lot of patients are coming to us after getting injected with clot buster such as streptokinase. But, angioplasty has better results. It is 95% effective but clot busters have a result effective up to 60%. It means that clot buster such as streptokinase open the blockage in 60 patients out of 100 patients, but in angioplasty the result is 95%,” said Dr Prakash Chandwani, a private hospital cardiologist. Since, streptokinase is available even in rural areas, patients are not risking travel to other cities for angioplasty. Majority of the doctors have stopped elective cardiac surgeries amid lockdown. “With voluntary postponement of elective surgeries, only emergency patients are reporting and that too in the nearest facility. If there is no facility for angioplasty, they are opting for clot busters as they avoid travelling to higher centres where the angioplasty is available. Moreover, there may be insignificant decrease of patients of acute heart attack as the triggers like stress, smoking tobacco and alcohol consumption has really gone down,” said Dr Rajeev Bagarhatta, professor cardiology, SMS Hospital. Cardiologists are claiming that there could be many other factors for reducing number of cardiac attack patients coming to hosptials. Explaining the possible reasons for this trend, Dr Samin K Sharma, chairman of Eternal hospital, Jaipur said, “Overall improved mental and physical health. Home containment has resulted in less work-related stress and increased indoor physical activities. Our working hours have become shorter and one of the biggest irritant in our working lives, traffic, has been altogether eliminated. Less restaurant visits, no junk food, balanced home cooked meals, reduced eating and drinking have contributed in reducing heart attacks.” “Reduced vehicular and air traffic have improved ambient air quality and significantly reduced air pollution. The possibility cannot be denied that heart attack patients might avoid seeking hospital care for fear of exposure to coronavirus. This may contribute to some of the anecdotal deaths at home being encountered in the current era,” said Sharma, who is also the director of interventional cardiology, Mount Sinai Health System, New York.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heart-patients-opting-for-clot-busters-instead-of-angioplasty/articleshow/75565242.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Congress alleges massive irregularities in Sambal, seeks probe||BHOPAL: Congress came down heavily on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government on Tuesday for relaunching the Sambhal Yojana without a probe into its alleged irregularities. The Sambhal Yojana for the working class poor was introduced before the 2018 assembly elections by the then Chouhan government. “When started, the Sambhal Yojana registered 2.06 crore beneficiaries under the scheme,” said Congress national media convener Abhay Dubey. “It was to benefit poor workers like blacksmiths, stone chippers in quarries, agricultural labourers and sweepers. The scheme said it would benefit those registered under it with the Ayushman Bharat, chief minister’s Annapurna Yojana and Saral Bijli Bill Maafi Yojana,” he said. Dubey also referred to the claim made by former minister in Kamal Nath cabinet Mahendra Singh Sisodia, who switched sides recently, about the discrepancies in the scheme. Dubey claimed that out of the 2.06 crore registered names, 68 lakh were those who did not qualify for benefits under the scheme. State Youth Congress president and MLA from Haatpipaliya Kunal Choudhary said, “Before chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan relaunches the scheme, he should answer our questions. Former labour minister Mahendra Sisodia, who is now in Chouhan’s party, has claimed that lakhs of people registered under the scheme have actually robbed the benefits meant for the poor. Sisodia claimed on Monday that he has informed chief minister Chouhan of the irregularities. We want to know if Chouhan has removed the names of those who robbed the scheme meant for the poor, before relaunching Sambhal Yojana? What action has he taken against the culprits?” Choudhary further recalled that the Nath government had launched the Indira Griha Jyoti Yojana-- a better alternative. “The Congress government’s scheme was for everyone. Any consumer with upto 150 units of power consumption in a month came under the scheme and got the first 100 units of electricity at just Rs 100. Will chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Sambhal Yojana give benefit to all, or just those registered?” Dubey argued: “It would have been a better option if the government had taken senior Congress leader Kamal Nath’s recommendation and gave Rs 7,500 to the poor families of the working class for two to three months during the Covid-19 crisis. The state’s GDP is Rs 9.62 lakh crore. Putting the money in the accounts of the working class would have cost the government just 2% of GDP. Can Chouhan not give this much for the poor?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-alleges-massive-irregularities-in-sambal-seeks-probe/articleshow/75564731.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Eight positive in Botad||Rajkot: Eight persons tested positive in Botad on Tuesday taking total tally to 41 in the district. The family members of two patients who tested positive on Monday tested positive on Tuesday. A 57-year- old person tested positive on Monday, along with his wife, son and two grand-daughters. The four family members of other patient including his 65-year-old mother, wife, bother and grand-daughter tested positive on Tuesday. All the patients are residents of ward nine of the municipality. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-positive-in-botad/articleshow/75562384.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||24 new Covid cases & 1 more death in city||Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Aurangabad rose to 321 following a sharp spike on 24 new patients on Tuesday morning. As many as 21 patients were reported from Jai Bhim Nagar alone and one each from Ajab Nagar, Sanjay Nagar and Budhha Nagar. Meanwhile, a 58-year-old patient died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital, taking the city’s Covid-related death toll to 11. On Tuesday, until 4 pm, 45 people were screened for Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and throat swabs of 20 were collected for testing. Currently, 21 Covid-19 positive patients are admitted to the dedicated Covid hospital. Of them, 19 patients are stable and two are critical, Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH, said. A 58-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Tuesday morning. The man, a resident of Badhkal Gate area, was admitted to the private hospital on April 27 and had tested positive for coronavirus on May 1. According to the hospital medical superintendent, he was admitted to the hospital with complaints of shortness of breath and fever. “He was a classic case of Covid-19. The cause of his death is pneumonitis as a result of severe acute respiratory infection and Covid-19,” the doctor said. The treating doctor added that the patient was on a ventilator for eight days. The hospital has two more Covid-19 positive patients one of whom is critical. Officials request people to stay indoors Over the past two days, senior officials including divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar and district collector Uday Chaudhari have been accompanying AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and other officials of the civic body to virus hotspots like Jai Bhim Nagar and Sanjay Nagar Mukundwadi. On Tuesday, the officials were accompanied by MLA Pradeep Jaiswal and MLC Ambadas Danve. They appealed to people to stay at home and addressed their queries regarding the provision of essential services. Meanwhile, 2,512 people looking to go out of the district were checked and issued medical certificates through AMC’s health centres across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/24-new-covid-cases-1-more-death-in-city/articleshow/75563819.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Purvanchal e-way project resumes with 50% workers||Lucknow: With lockdown extended till May 17 with some relaxations, UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has managed to kickstart construction of 340km-long Purvanchal Expressway by engaging 5,000 workers in all eight packages. The strength of workers before the lockdown was enforced was 10,000, of which half returned to their native districts. On Tuesday, media advisor to UPEIDA, Durgesh Upadhya said, majority workers were back at the site. “They have been deployed while imposing social distancing norms. We hope the project would be expedited in days to come with help of more workers,” he told TOI. Work began on April 20 with help of 4,000 workers, “The strength of workers is rising gradually,” he said. The development comes two days after the state government issued an advisory to restart construction activity to revive the pandemic-hit economy.  UPEIDA sources said, barring Lucknow, offices of contractors have opened in other districts through which Purvanchal Expressway would cut through. UPEIDA deployed 10,000 workers in Purvanchal Greenfield Expressway before lockdown came into force even as labourers began returning to their home districts.  The state government fixed Diwali deadline for completing the project. This, however, is expected to be prolonged till next year, sources said. UPEIDA officials said, 42% physical work had been completed before the lockdown. “The rest would be completed soon,” said an official. Likewise, 297km-long Bundelkhand expressway has a presence of over 2,000 workers. Similarly, the authority has started work on 91km Gorakhpur link expressway with help of 250 workers between Gorakhpur and Sant Kabir Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/purvanchal-e-way-project-resumes-with-50-workers/articleshow/75565248.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad takes lead in battling Covid-19||Aurangabad: Osmanabad district implemented a host of measures to successfully tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and earn the tag of ‘green zone.’ Besides being the only district in Marathwada region to have earned the Central government’s coveted title, it is also one of the six districts in the state to have earned this distinction. As on date, nearly all economic activities have started in Osmanabad with the necessary safeguards as per the guidelines of the Central and state governments. District collector Deepal Mudhol-Munde and superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan took all the efforts to make the district Covid-19 free. The duo moved the entire government machinery and also ensured that essential commodities were home-delivered to the last house situated in the remotest area of the district. In addition, large-scale registration of cases against violators of lockdown norms, seizure of vehicles, slapping fines and dedicated police teams to check on messages and rumours inciting hatred in social media played a key role. Moreover, the district police even started dedicated 24 hour-helpline numbers for the public at each police station, apart from the five independent numbers made available for reaching out to the police control room for any assistance. When contacted, Roushan said, “We strictly checked and screened everyone entering the district at all the 30 border check posts manually as well as with the help of drones. We especially kept an eye on those travelling from districts bordering Osmanabad like Ahmednagar, Solapur, Beed, Latur and Bidar in Karnataka.” Police also used first-of-its-kind geo-fencing technology to monitor people in quarantine. A dedicated team was also formed to take action against people not wearing masks or observing social distancing in public. On April 2, two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dhanori and Balsur villages of Lohara and Omerga blocks respectively. The third case cropped up on April 5 from Omerga city. Collector Deepa told TOI, “At gram-panchayat level, we formed Gram Suraksha Dals. The volunteers of these groups ensured no new person entered the villages. This was followed by quarantining every person coming from outside the district for 14 days in our zilla parishad schools and hostels. They were allowed to go home only after they underwent screening again.” The district administration ran several mobile fever clinics, where all the suspected people from a particular village underwent screening. Active and passive surveillance of the patients who have recovered, their high and low-risk contacts and hundreds of other susceptible people were provided with immunity booster kits. Daily collection of data from private and government hospitals helped the administration to a great extent. The district even successfully observed five Janta curfews, apart from the strict implementation of the lockdown orders, that has helped break the chain of the virus and has made the district Covid-19 free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-takes-lead-in-battling-covid-19/articleshow/75563833.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Vijay Nehra quarantines self after contact with Covid-19 patients||AHMEDABAD: Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra announced on Tuesday that he was quarantining himself for 14 days as he had come in contact with people who had tested positive for Covid-19. The announcement sent many tongues wagging in the bureaucratic circles within the AMC and the state, with Covid cases rising in the city. Nehra’s announcement came soon after the 6:15pm video conference (VC) in which revenue minister Kaushik Patel and chief principal secretary to the CM, K Kailashnathan, introduced AMC’s deputy municipal commissioners and other municipal staff to additional chief secretary Rajiv Gupta, who will now lead the war on Covid in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Nehra immediately signed out of the meeting. Gupta then formally introduced vice-chairman and CEO, Gujarat Maritime Board, Mukesh Kumar, as the new in-charge municipal commissioner. Senior officials in the municipal corporation said that there existed a political friction between Nehra and the standing committee, the mayor, and senior BJP MLAs who allegedly had issues with Nehra’s functioning. “Ahmedabad’s rising Covid numbers were a concern. This was also because of the aggressive testing,” said an AMC official. “But somehow the political wing felt that the situation was worsening, especially with the high death rates.” Some senior politicians complained that Nehra would not listen to them, the AMC official said. Another official added, “Some senior politicians worried that Covid-19 may snowball into a big political issue ahead of municipal elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nehra-quarantines-self-after-contact-with-covid-patients/articleshow/75564759.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Resorts eye those who seek shelter in nicer places||Kottayam: The resorts in the popular tourist destination Kumarakom are set to welcome expatriates who would not mind spending that extra buck for staying isolated in plush lake-facing properties. Kerala tourism department has completed a data collection on the availability of resorts in the scenic area and 12 among the 19 resorts in Kumarakom have expressed willingness to arrange facilities for paid quarantine for the returning expats. A total of 357 rooms are ready in these resorts as of Tuesday. The tourism department has requested the resorts to offer rooms at discounted rates. The resorts, which normally charge Rs 60,000 for double-occupancy rooms, will now rent them out for Rs 17,000 plus tax. Double-occupancy rooms, which cost Rs 9,000-12,000, will be available for Rs 4,500. Single-occupancy rooms will be available for fares as low Rs 3,000. Till Sunday, 13,568 repatriates have registered in the Norka website from Kottayam district alone to return to the state. P Bala Kiran, director, department of tourism, said the tariffs of the resorts have been shared with the state disaster management authority. “We have given information about the entire list of rooms available along with their rates. Those who want to make use of the facility can directly contact the resorts,” he said.  A few resort owners have expressed apprehensions that Covid-19 cases might be reported from among those who return from foreign countries. A resort owner, who preferred to remain anonymous, said: “What will happen if any of the guests turn Covid positive? Are their protocols in place to be followed? Will the authorities ask all the guests in the resort to go on quarantine for the next 28 days? Who will meet their expenses?” But there are many who consider the move as a chance for the revival of the tourism sector in the area which has been hit severely following the lockdown. In fact, the crisis is so deep that many of them have been forced to slash tariffs by 50-75%. Responsible Tourism Mission expects things to turn out to be better with the arrival of repatriates. “Vegetables, eggs and milk will be procured from locals,” said Roopesh Kumar, state coordinator of RT Mission. The units producing face masks and clothes bag under the mission will also benefit, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/resorts-eye-those-who-seek-shelter-in-nicer-places/articleshow/75562437.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospital resumes surgeries, operates upon 8-year-old with heart ailment||KOLKATA: Tiljala resident Afzal Farooque was worried for his eight-year-old nephew whose heart surgery was due in mid-April. The advice by the government to defer elective surgeries and non-emergency medical care had put him in a fix. But on May 1, Farooque’s prayers were answered when Afzal Ansari was put under the knife at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), a day after the state made an appeal to private hospitals to start services and not to refuse patients. The eight-year-old boy was suffering from leakage in the mitral valve — it’s a valve with two flaps in the heart that lies between the left atrium and the left ventricle — for quite some time. Paediatric cardiologist Debasree Gangopadhyay who had been seeing the boy had suggested mitral heart valve replacement surgery which was scheduled in mid-April. But due to the lockdown, the boy was being kept on medication with doctors following up regularly online. Last week Farooque was asked to take the boy to the hospital for the surgery. Since the boy had respiratory distress, a Covid-19 test was conducted. After ruling out the infection, three doctors – Gangopadhyay, paediatric cardiac surgeon Sukanta Kumar Behra and paediatric intensivist Ritajyoti conducted the mitral valve replacement surgery. “It is a huge relief that my nephew has finally been operated upon and he is doing very well. I am thankful to the doctors and also the hospital, specially its guest support cell head Anuradha Johri who helped us with fund as we were unable to pay the full charges,” said Farooque. Afzal is recovering fast and doctors plan to discharge him in a couple of days. There was relief for the family of an elderly diabetic patient also who underwent liver resection surgery at AMRI Dhakuria. “We have started conducting elective surgeries, especially cancer and other major ones that can’t be delayed further,” said Suddhasattwa Sen, head of GI and HPB surgery at AMRI Dhakuria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosp-resumes-surgeries-operates-upon-8-yr-old-with-heart-ailment/articleshow/75563863.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||JMC yet to resolve 1,200 complaints over non-functional street lights||JAIPUR: Complaints are pouring in at Jaipur Municipal Corporation over non-functional street lights. Currently, 2,500 complaints are pending at the civic body and 1,200 are related to faulty street lights. According to officials, the JMC receives 70-80 complaints everyday over non-functional street lights and less than 50 are being resolved. This has become a serious issue in remote areas, officials said. Meena Sharma, a resident of Mahesh Nagar, said, “Two street lights of my lane are not working and it is difficult to get out of the house for purchasing any essential items, particularly medicine. It feels scary during night.” Similar concerns were shown by Mohammad Taliq, a resident of Kho Nagoriyan who says that being situated in city outskirts, they are always ignored by the government. Ramesh Sharma, executive engineer at electricity department of JMC, said, “We are working in resolving the issues. We have already ordered the engineers on field to resolve the complaints of residents on priority. Our officials are working even at night to repair the faulty street lights in the city. Very soon, we will bring down the number of complaints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-yet-to-resolve-1200-plaints-over-non-functional-street-lights/articleshow/75564769.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Ex-MLAsAidal Singh Kansana & Hardeep Singh Dang meet CM amid talks of cabinet expansaion||BHOPAL: A day after meeting health minister Narottam Mishra, Aidal Singh Kansana— former Congress MLA who had been a close confident of Digvijaya Singh— called on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday sparking speculations among political circles about a cabinet expansion in the state. After meeting Chouhan, Kansana said this was a routine meeting, his first after he took over as the CM. “I met chief minister Chouhan today. This was my first meeting with him after he became the chief minister. I had joined the BJP and wanted to meet him. The meeting was cordial and there was no discussion on cabinet expansion," Kansana told TOI. The former legislator said that he was the first among the MLAs who raised voice against the injustice meted out to the dedicated Congress party workers. "I along with Hardeep Singh Dang, Ranveer Jatav and Kamlesh Jatav spoke against the previous Congress government over injustice to sincere workers. We were the first to quit the Congress, and join BJP. Now it’s up to the party to assign any work to us. We are ready to take on any assignment," he said. A four-term sitting MLA from Sumawali constituency in Morena district, Kansana was minister of state during Congress-led Digvijaya Singh government in Madhya Pradesh. He had resigned from the Congress on March 10 apparently after being miffed off over denial of a berth in the Kamal Nath-led Congress government. Kansana had met state health minister Narottam Mishra on Monday. Though he denied having held talks over cabinet expansion and his ambition to become a minister in the BJP government, sources said that Kansana will use his influence in Chambal region to help BJP win the by-polls on 5 of the total 16 seats. “I believe that cabinet expansion is not on the cards, yet. The entire government and the party is busy fighting the COVID-19 crisis. I am also trying to help people fight against the corona outbreak. We are working hard to promote the party activities in the region," he said. Earlier in the day, former MLA from Suwasra seat in Mandsaur district, Hardeep Singh Dang also called on chief minister Chouhan. A two-term MLA, Dang reached Bhopal from Mandsaur in the afternoon and had discussions with Chouhan on current political and social condition in the region. “I met the chief minister and discussed the problems of migrant labourers from MP stranded in other states. Large number of workers want to return to the state and the government has assured to bring them back very soon," Dang told TOI. Sources disclosed that both the meetings of former MLAs with chief minister holds significance in view of speculations over cabinet expansion in the state. The BJP is also preparing for the by-poll to 24 assembly seats to secure a majority in the state assembly. Sources further informed that the BJP leaders are also meeting state party president VD Sharma and party general secretary (organisation) Suhas Bhagat and giving their feedback on cabinet expansion and bypoll. It is believed that cabinet expansion has been put on hold till further instructions from the national leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ex-mlas-kansana-dang-meet-cm-amid-talks-of-cabinet-expansaion/articleshow/75564741.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Special trains bring home migrants, broke and anxious about survival||LUCKNOW: As many as five ‘Shramik Special’ trains brought back 5,915 migrant labourers stranded in states like Gujarat and Maharashtra to several cities in the state, including Jaunpur, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Kanpur. While one train reached Jaunpur late Monday night, others arrived on Tuesday. Two Shramik Special trains arrived in Lucknow on Tuesday with 2,400 migrant workers and their families from Maharashtra and Gujarat. A majority was forced to pay for the journey, but their biggest worry was survival without any source of livelihood after reaching home. The first train came in the morning from Vakola in Maharashtra with 1,199 passengers, who were all sent to their native districts on state-run buses after thermal scanning, baggage sanitisation and recording address. They were also given food packets. The same drill was followed in the evening when a train from Vadodara brought 1,224 passengers. Most workers said, they had set out for UP on foot, but were stopped and sent to quarantine centres by local authorities where they stayed for over 30 days before boarding the train. Aakash Kumar, who worked as a helper in poultry production factory in Vakola, said, “I am happy, I will finally be home. But with no job, the burning question is how will we survive,” he said. Amit Keserwani, another worker, said “I was left with no money, hence called a relative in the village and requested him to deposit Rs 1,000 in my account. It was only then that I paid Rs 560 for the railway ticket.” Shiv Shankar, a Jaunpur resident, who sold fruits in Vadodara, said he paid Rs 700 for the ticket. Some students also arrived from Gujarat in a special train. Karunesh Dubey, a Gorakhpur resident, was accompanied by eight friends, said when lockdown was announced, they were stranded in a hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-trains-bring-home-migrants-broke-and-anxious-about-survival/articleshow/75565259.cms||Urooj Khan
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Quarantine centre inmates allege bias over food||BHOPAL: Labourers housed in two quarantine centres in MP’s Sheopur have alleged discrimination in food, claiming they are being served ‘sookhi roti’ while restaurant fare is being served in the quarantine centres housing family members of some traders. Around 10 localities of Badoda tehsil of Sheopur, bordering Rajasthan, were declared containment zones after a Covid-19 patient was detected in the small town. A government school and hostel and a marriage garden were converted into quarantine centres and 66 people moved there. Thirty-nine labourers and their families are housed in the school and hostel, say sources in the administration. Gopal Sharma and Dipu Sharma, who are quarantined in the hostel, allege that they are being served “dry chapattis, rolled in a piece of paper, and dal”. Besides, they say, they don’t even have fans in this scorching weather. Those quarantined in the marriage garden are getting packed hotel food and sweets, they allege. “Just because we are poor, the administration is discriminating with us,” they alleged. A local activist, C P Sharma, has filed a complaint with the local administration. Officials deny the allegations. The district administration’s spokesperson, J P Rathore, said there is no discrimination in food and other facilities among people quarantined in the three centres. Last week, a whistleblower was allegedly attacked by panchayat employees in the same district after he complained about the “plight of four men at a quarantine centre” on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quarantine-centre-inmates-allege-bias-over-food/articleshow/75564756.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||76-year-old who tested +ve 2nd time doing well||Aurangabad: A 76-year-old resident of Jalal Colony who had tested Covid-19 positive seven days after he was discharged from the hospital on completion of treatment for the infection is on the path of recovery. The man had first gone to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) with complaints of shortness of breath. His throat swab samples were sent for Covid-19 analysis and he tested positive for the infection on April 6. Subsequently, he was moved to the district civil hospital. He underwent treatment for 14 days and was discharged after testing negative for the two consecutive tests conducted in a gap of 24 hours. According to the patient’s kin, he was under home-quarantine as advised. He went to the hospital for a check-up six to seven days later with complaints of difficulty in breathing while climbing stairs or walking. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said the man reported the same symptoms and tested positive for Covid-19 a second time. The patient is currently under treatment at the district civil hospital and physician Padmaja Saraf said that he had a known case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. “He is doing well. We are treating him symptomatically and also administering anti-virals. He is in good spirits and is likely to test negative after his 14 days isolation is completed,” said Saraf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/76-year-old-who-tested-ve-2nd-time-doing-well/articleshow/75563853.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Leftover ration for pregnant women in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The school authorities are distributing leftover ration under the mid-day meal programme to pregnant women and anganwadi centres in the state. Schools are closed due to pandemic since March. Therefore, the government has decided to utilise the leftover ration for the betterment of society. Rajendra Singh, district education officer (elementary) says, “The scheme has started functioning in the state. The government has entrusted the responsibility to district collectors look after the mid-day meal. If any anganwadi seeks ration, then we provide it to pregnant women through them. The mid-day meal department had submitted a proposal to the government for distributing ration among migrant workers and economically backward people a month back. The department had pointed out that they supply ration to schools on quarterly basis and since the lockdown, rice and wheat are lying in the school. So, it proposed the government to utilise ration in right manner. After the proposal was accepted, the department of women and child development also requested the government to implement the same in anganwadi and for pregnant women which was also accepted. Due to the lockdown, there has been a crisis for daily wagers. Many NGOs and government departments have started supplying food packets to the people. This is the first time when mid-day meal will be distributed to people. There are, however, cases where it has been witnessed that students from poor families are now facing problems as the mid-day meal is not available anymore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leftover-ration-for-pregnant-women/articleshow/75564774.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Long wait, prohibitive price fail to deter Andhra tipplers||Vijayawada: Undeterred by 75% hike in liquor prices, thousands of people continued to stand in serpentine queues to buy liquor across Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. The police had a hectic time in controlling the surging crowds and ensuring social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19. People gathered outside wine shops even before they opened for the day. Heavy turnouts were witnessed outside liquor outlets in Vizag city, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Rajahmundry, Tirupati, Nellore and other cities and towns and many rural areas in the state. Liquor shops did not function in Vijayawada and Guntur as they are classified as red zones. At places people were seen in queues right from 8 am though shops were scheduled to open at 11 am. However, due to change in tax structure and updation of computer data, shops opened only at 3 pm. While some braved the hot summer sun and stood in line, others put their belongings to save their place. Some in Gannavaram in Vijayawada put empty liquor bottles to save their place in the queue. A senior excise official said that the government had issued a GO on increased liquor prices on Tuesday afternoon, thus delaying the reopening of shops. For the second day on Tuesday, social distancing norms were thrown to the wind. Many people were seen without masks. “I have waited from 8 am in front of the outlet to buy one full bottle (750 ml) of whiskey but the shop opened at 3.30 pm and finally I managed to buy the Sterling Reverse B10 (750 ml) bottle at Rs 2,000 at 4.30 pm,” said V Vasmi, a resident of MVP Colony in Vizag city. Of the total 3,468 liquor outlets in the state, 1,123 liquor outlets in Covid-19 containment zones remained closed while the remaining 2,345 outlets functioned. At a few places tipplers followed social distancing rules and were seen wearing face masks while standing in the queues but in many places, lockdown norms were not followed despite repeated appeals by the police. “We have no orders to lathicharge on the tipplers who ignored the norms,” said a police officer. In Visakhapatnam the services of government teachers were sought for crowd management in front of liquor outlets. The government came under criticism from various quarters for deploying teachers to control the tipplers. Vizag district education officer B Lingeswara Reddy told reporters that the police requested the education department for Covid-19 related works. A total of 600 teachers came forward. Some teachers were deployed near liquor outlets on Monday, he added. However, the district collector on Tuesday relieved the teachers from Covid-19 related duties following criticism from activists and teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/long-wait-prohibitive-price-fail-to-deter-andhra-tipplers/articleshow/75562436.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 6, 2020||Surat||With 30 discharges, Surat is recovering||Surat: Surat is now fighting back the virus steadily, one day at a time. In yet another day of optimism, 30 more Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city on Tuesday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), total 301 positive patients have been recovered till date. “The recovery percentage is improving and it is a very good sign. With 17 fresh positive cases of coronavirus reported from the city on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases till the evening reached 698, while of these, 301 cases have recovered so far,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. Pani said that 233 patients are now admitted into New Civil Hospital (NCH) and 130 asymptomatic patients into the Covid Care Centre at Samras Hostel in the city till Tuesday evening. He, however, cautioned people to stay aware of the symptoms asking them to immediately report to doctors at the NCH at the slightest signs of either diarrhoea, dry cough, fever or respiratory problem. “If left untreated, these take a serious turn,” he warned. “We have observed in some cases patients only had diarrhoea and no other symptoms. Yet they tested positive. So, I urge people to check with the doctors at NCH and get tested before it gets too late,” Pani said. Meanwhile, another death took the coronavirus toll in the city to 32 on the same day. A 72-year-old man with co-morbid conditions from Salabatpura, Ahmed Khan Pathan, died in the NCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/with-30-discharges-surat-is-recovering/articleshow/75562428.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mysuru||Three of a family drown in Soraba tank||Shivamogga: Three people drowned in a village tank at Tyavareteppa of Soraba taluk on Monday night. The diseased are Basavaraj, 45, his brother Shivamurthy, 49, and his son Akash, 14. According to Anavatti police, the trio had gone for fishing during night, apparently to secretly carry out the activity, which has been banned in Shivamogga district during lockdown. But when the trio did not return home, their family members informed neighbours and also police. Fire brigade and expert divers began searching for the bodies on Tuesday morning, and fished them out. Police are investigating the case. The taluk has hundreds of ponds and lakes, and villagers often catches during night, it is said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-of-a-family-drown-in-soraba-tank/articleshow/75562432.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Discom works 24x7 to restore electricity in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The rain and thunderstorm that lashed the state on May 3 and 4 have wreaked havoc on Jaipur discom’s power distribution system. Discom employees and engineers have been working on a war footing to restore supply. According to JVVNL, power supply of 1,325 villages spread over four districts has been disrupted due to uprooting of poles and damage caused to transformers. Discom employees and engineers have been able to restore lines in most areas of Jaipur, Bharatpur, Karauli and Dholpur. But power supply in Tonk and Sawai Madhopur is yet to be fully restored. JVVNL managing director AK Gupta said supply was restored in most areas by Tuesday evening and efforts are being made to normalise supply in other areas as well. Gupta said in the thunderstorm and rain, 41 feeders of 33 KV, 763 feeders of 11 KV, around 7,000 poles and 1,400 distribution transformers were damaged. According to initial estimates, Jaipur discom suffered a total estimated loss of about Rs 6.58 crore, he said. He said since May 3, electrical workers and engineers have been working on a war footing, but due to lack of resources due to the lockdown, they have been facing a lot of difficulties. Gupta said maximum damage has been caused in Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk and Jaipur districts. By Tuesday evening, lines in most areas of Jaipur, Bharatpur, Karauli and Dholpur have been restored. Work is still in progress at the Shivad and Khandar area of Tonk and Sawai Madhopur districts which had suffered maximum damage. He said it might take a day or two for normal supply of electricity in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discom-works-24x7-to-restore-electricity-in-raj/articleshow/75564785.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s east zone sees sharp spike in Covid cases||Vadodara: East zone of the city has emerged as a major cause of concern with a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Of the 20 new cases registered in the city, 15 were from this zone.The number of persons who died of Covid-19 touched 31 with three more deaths in the city since Monday evening. With 20 new cases, total number of patients in the city and district rose to 441.The deceased include a 55-year-old woman from Panigate area, a 62-year-old man from Nagarwada and a 40-year-old man from Wadi. While the number of positive cases reported on Tuesday may seem lower, a major reason for this was that only 137 samples from the city were tested. The SSG Hospital had tested 225 and 228 samples on Sunday and Monday when 36 and 35 persons tested positive.Sources said testing was hit by a snag in power supply at the laboratory where tests were being conducted. A power shut down had to be taken to fix the issue.Fifteen of the 20 persons who tested positive were from Wadi, Panigate, Mandvi and other areas in east zone. The cases in east and south zone have raised concern as many localities happen to be in walled city and old city areas. These areas are congested and officials said social distancing and home quarantine may be difficult to be enforced in many of the homes there.Eleven patients were also discharged in the city. These include three from SSG Hospital, one from a private hospital and seven from Covid care centre at High-Speed Railway Training Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-east-zone-sees-sharp-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75560970.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Latur: 10 people allowed in marriages||Aurangabad: Latur district on Tuesday reported another positive case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 14. After taking quick review of the situation, the district administration tweaked a few relaxation norms to ensure social distancing during the ongoing lockdown. As per the decision taken by the administration, liquor shops have once again been closed while the number of people allowed to attend a marriage has been reduced to 10. "While a gathering of 50 people was allowed earlier during marriage ceremonies, the number of participants has now been reduced till further order," an official release said. Also, the number of people taking part in the last rites, funeral or cremation is now restricted to 20. "A day after liquor shops witnessed heavy crowds, the administration on Tuesday ordered blanket closure of such establishments. These establishments will remain closed in urban and rural areas till further notice," the release said. Ganesh Bargaje, superintendent of state excise department (Latur), said the district witnessed a sale of 21,892 litre of alcohol through different licensed establishments on Tuesday. "The sale included 14,948 litre of country liquor, 4,366 litre of foreign liquor and 2,578 litre of beer. The revenue earned on a single day was to the tune of Rs 40.13 lakh," he said. The district administration, while suspending the sale of liquor, said the social distancing norms went for toss during the sale of liquor. "Also, there was a possibility of inter-district travel by alcohol lovers to purchase liquor from Latur. Considering all pros and cons associated with the sale of liquor, the district administration has decided to suspend the sale," the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/latur-10-people-allowed-in-marriages/articleshow/75563882.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||‘Subsidy raj’ hitting agri sector: Study||Lucknow: Average monthly income of a farmer in rural UP is not even half of the salary of a class IV employee in the urban area. If the state wants to strengthen the agriculture sector, it should do away with the 'subsidy raj' immediately and start ensuring adequate power, irrigation and storage facilities to farmers, says a study conducted by Lucknow's Giri Institute of Development Studies. The survey-cum-study of 75 districts of the state title 'Measures by the state government for doubling farmers' income by 2022-23' has been submitted to the state government. Director of the institute, B K Bajpai, who led the study, said that the ‘subsidy raj’ is one of the main factors behind the poor agriculture growth in the state. He said that the prevailing ‘subsidy raj’ from the input (farm machines, fertilisers, seeds) to the output (minimum support price on the farm produce) should be done away with immediately. Focus should be on providing adequate power, irrigation and storage facilities to farmers and on setting up more food processing units and cold storages to make the agriculture more productive and remunerative. The study states that the agriculture gives employment to the highest 45% of the total workforce and 65% of the rural population is dependent on it. But the average income of farmers is so meagre that it is forcing them to shift to urban areas for better opportunities. The Giri Institute’s study has highlighted that the average monthly income of a farmer is just Rs 7065.49 which is much less in comparison to the monthly income of a class IV employee in the urban area. Categorising farmers into various groups, according to their land holdings and monthly income, the study points out that the big farmers with four acres land and above usually earn Rs 19,704.41 a month, while the monthly average income of small farmers stands at Rs 4744.45 and marginal farmers with the land holding of less than one acre on an average earn Rs 4,246 per month. The state is divided into nine different agro-climatic zones according to the nature of soil, atmosphere and moisture. Out of these nine zones, the income of farmers in the western agro-climatic zone is the highest with Rs 13,004.05 per month and in the lowest income group comes the eastern zone with an average monthly income of just Rs 4,802.22. The study has underlined the fact that agriculture is giving employment to 45% of total work force and 65% population of state is dependent on it. But the allocation of funds for the rural development and the agriculture sector as compared to the urban development has been very less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/subsidy-raj-hitting-agri-sector-study/articleshow/75565277.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Music of the master of sound fades away||Chennai: If there was something every music director, artist and singer looked forward to while working with veteran audiologist K Sampath, it was the line -- "Ramakrishna! Thenga udachuko!" (Ramakrishna! Break that coconut!). The instruction would come after hours of prepping, just before the first take. "It used to be the most fulfilling moment, as though everything was coming together and magic was about to happen," says Tamil film composer Deva, who recorded his first film ‘Manasukketha Maharasa’ (1989) and later, several others at AVM Studios with Sampath. Deva, who invited the beloved sound artist to his studio as recently as six months ago to record a song, is among the many in Tamil cinema who are coping with the vacuum left behind by the passing of Sampath on May 1. He was 87."At times, I would sing a track to test, and every time Sampath sir heard an unpleasant word in the lyrics, he would say, ‘Don’t use that word, maybe ask the lyricist to change it to something more uplifting.’ He also remembered the name of every person in the orchestra by their name. It was inspiring how much people mattered to him," says Deva.Sampath worked on close to 6,000 songs. He joined AVM Studios as an apprentice in the mid-1950s, at a time when dialogues were still recorded live. But he became adept with the digitisation of sound engineering, and was respected for this dynamism. His sound knowledge of the craft was cultivated with years of working with exemplary engineers of the time including Mukul Bose, chief sound engineer for most of AVM’s Hindi films, S P Ramanathan and J J Manickam. Sampath went on to win three state awards and a National Award for the Malayalam film ‘Ennu Swantham Janakikutty’ (1998). "There were times he clocked in almost 20 hours at the studio, worked till 3am, went home, and would be back by 7am. And despite these schedules, he was a stickler for punctuality," says veteran director S P Muthuraman.For some of the greatest singers of the industry, having the pleasure of working with Sampath meant an impeccable output and a generous dose of kindness. "I remember when we recorded the song "Naalai Intha Velai" (‘Uyarndha Manithan’ in 1968). His command over sound systems was such that even on days I felt my voice wasn’t cooperating, he made it sound magical with effortless ease," says celebrated vocalist P Suseela. "I will never forget his encouraging words when I joined the industry in the 1980s. He will be dearly missed," says vocalist K S Chitra.Film producer and a close associate of Sampath, Srinivasan Shivpprasadh recalls how renowned musician K J Yesudas paid a surprise visit to Sampath’s residence, sat on the floor and started singing. "When Yesudas had called Sampath one day, his wife Padmavathi told she couldn’t attend his concerts due to her arthritis. Sampath’s goodwill was such that the veteran vocalist decided to take the concert to their home," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/music-of-the-master-of-sound-fades-away/articleshow/75564782.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Govt to study home remedy effectiveness||RAJKOT: The union Ayush ministry is attempting to scientifically prove effectiveness of age old home remedies that has been passed on from generation to generation. The ministry will be conducting a nation-wide survey to know the experience of people in using the home remedies and how it helps boost immunity. Around 16 vaidyas from across the country have prepared list of these remedies. One of the vaidyas is Anup Thakar, director of Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (IPGT&RA) of Gujarat Ayurveda University in Jamnagar. The Ayush ministry and government of India has been advising the people to boost their immunities using home remedies. The ministry is also preparing a mobile application for the people to contribute their experience. “Turmeric, cumin or coriander is useful for our body. But we don’t have any scientific study to prove it. We will do the first of it’s kind survey to gather scientific data on the effectiveness of these home remedies,” said Thakar. “Why we are insisting on this remedies is because in case of coronavirus, prevention is the only cure. There is no medicine or treatment protocol available at present. We want to gather scientific proof and published papers of some of these remedies that we are recommending to boost immunity,” he added. According to ayurveda varsity, they are expecting to survey 20 lakh from all over the country. The respondents will be asked to share their experience in a prescribed format. A mechanism will be developed to analyse the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-to-study-home-remedy-effectiveness/articleshow/75562480.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Amaravati||Liquor shops will be reduced by 13%: Andhra Pradesh CM||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has defended the revision of liquor prices saying that the increase will discourage its consumption.  He said the government is committed to implement total prohibition in coming years and the price rise is a strategy to that end. The chief minister directed district collectors and SPs to take measures to prevent bootlegging, during a video conference held on Tuesday. Jaganmohan Reddy said the government is readying plans to reduce the number of shops by at least 13% by the end of month. The total number of retail shops have alredy been trimmed by 20% in the past year and he would further reduced it by another 13% by the month-end, taking the total to 33% within a year of his taking office. “A steep increase in price is a way to discourage the consumption. We increased the prices by 25% on Monday while the Delhi government increased it by 70%. So we thought of taking further tough decision in this regard and decided to increase the prices by another 50%. This amounts to a 75% increase in a couple of days. This should deter tipplers to keep away from consumption,” the chief minister said. The chief ministerexplained that they have already abolished 43,000 belt shops, which operated during the previous TDP regime, and reduced operating hours of the liquor shops to 11am-8pm. He clarified that liquor shops would remain open only till 7pm till the end of lockdown. He asked SPs to focus on prevention of bootlegging as the price rise might prompt some people to indulge in illegal practices and concentrate on hooch-makers in the border areas and remote villages. “There should not be any leniency in handling illegal manufacture and transport of liquor and smuggling of sand in the state. SPs should play proactive role in curbing the anti-social elements,” Jaganmohan Reddy directed. He said he would personally monitor the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/liquor-shops-to-be-reduced-by-another-13-says-jagan/articleshow/75562447.cms||Samdani MN
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur bids tearful adieu to braveheart||JAIPUR: An avid photographer, book lover and a ghazal fan, Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who was martyred in Handwara during a counter-terrorism operation. was laid to rest here on Tuesday. The family remembers him not only as a passionate soldier, but also as a nature lover and a book collector. Sharma would spend nearly Rs 1 lakh on books almost every month. CM Ashok Gehlot and his ministers paid respects to the slain officer at the wreath-laying ceremony. Sharma, who was fondly called ‘Ashu’ by elder brother Piyush Sharma, was not just interested in photography but also a big Jagjit Singh and Kishore Kumar fan. “Ashu and I both had professional cameras. He loved clicking pictures and many of his photographs are on display at his regiment as well as at home,” he said. The Colonel, who was commanding 21 RR for nearly two years, was martyred along with four others when they were conducting an operation to rescue civilians who had been taken hostage by terrorists. Apart from army, he was extremely passionate about books and bought them regularly from stores and online. Piyush said, “Ashu would buy books of different genres and would often discuss with me about what he read. He would get the books delivered to his home in Jaipur and would get them collected in case someone from here was going to Kashmir.” Rajasthan government will give Rs 50 lakh to his wife. Also, Rs 3 lakh will be deposited in his mother’s account in addition to free education for his daughter. Uttar Pradesh government had already announced Rs 50 lakh for the martyr’s family Pratapsingh Khachariyawas, state transport and soldier welfare minister said, “We will extend all possible help to his family. In case the Colonel’s wife wants a government job, then needful will be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-bids-tearful-adieu-to-braveheart/articleshow/75564780.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 6, 2020||Kochi||WtE plant: Govt orders to cancel pact||Kochi: In a crucial move, the state government has decided to cancel the approval given to GJ Eco Power Private Ltd for implementation of waste-to-energy (WtE) project at Brahmapuram on a public-private partnership model. The private firm has not been able demonstrate financial closure or arrangements for raising funds for the project even after 1,400 days of signing agreement with Kochi corporation for setting up the plant. As per the agreement, the firm should have made arrangements for funds and other prerequisites in 180 days. Moreover, government also found that the demand made by the private firm for 100% government guarantee for securing bank loan for raising funds for the project is against the agreement. So, the government has asked Kochi corporation secretary to take legal action to cancel the agreement entered into with the firm. “We will be go through the agreement on Monday and take necessary action,” said corporation secretary Anu R S. It was in 2016 that Kochi corporation and GJ Eco Power Private Ltd signed an agreement for setting up WtE plant worth Rs 295 crore at 22 acres earmarked at Brahampuram. It was a concessionaire agreement which allows the company to set up the WtE plant in the land allotted by the corporation. As the private firm doesn’t have any claim over the land, they can’t mortgage the land for raising loan from banks. Later, the private firm came up with a demand that the concessionaire agreement should be converted into lease agreement. If concessionaire agreement is converted into lease agreement, the firm can raise funds by mortgaging the property. During the period of T K Jose as local self-government department secretary, government had instructed Kochi corporation to take measures to convert concessionaire agreement into lease agreement. It was due to stiff opposition from the opposition councillors that the corporation authorities couldn’t convert the agreement into lease agreement. “It is the private partner who is to raise funds for a project under PPP,” said K J Antony, opposition leader, Kochi corporation. “I have given a letter to corporation secretary and mayor demanding that an urgent meeting of the council be convened. The meeting should be convened after following all the regulations as part of Covid-19 control measures,” Antony said. Now, the government has asked Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) to take measures to invite tenders seeking firms which can set up the WtE plant. ‘Spent Rs ‘35cr for project’ Kochi: GJ Eco Power Private Ltd, in a press release issued here, claimed that the company had been completing all the steps for starting the works. The company also claimed that around Rs 35 crore had been spent by it for the project. The company authorities also said that it will send a negative message to the investors if the government cancels the agreement with the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wte-plant-govt-orders-to-cancel-pact/articleshow/75550325.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajiv Gupta to manage Covid-19 crisis in Ahmedabad||GANDHINAGAR: Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary (ACS), forest & environment and managing director, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL), has been appointed as overall incharge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad. This, even as the city recorded the highest number of cases in a single day, on Tuesday. Gupta who is known for executing projects and tasks and leading teams from the front, will take up the huge task of controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad. He has already been appointed as overall incharge of combating the pandemic in Gandhinagar. Gupta, who is credited for the completion of SoU (Statue of Unity) before deadline, is considered as the best bet for controlling the situation in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajiv-gupta-to-manage-covid-crisis-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/75564809.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Active case growth rate now below 5%, says Vijay Nehra||AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday, the day the city recorded its highest absolute number of fresh Covid-19 cases, municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that the growth rate of active cases in the city had fallen to below 5% for the first time. He also said the city’s testing figures had crossed the 5,000 tests per million residents mark, at 5,334. Nehra was speaking via social media in the afternoon, hours before he was advised to quarantine himself. Nehra said that the city at 5pm on Tuesday had 4,022 cases of which 3,101 are active. Nehra said that the help from citizens, the number can be reduced to zero. Some 79 patients were also discharged on Tuesday, taking the number of total discharges to 691. Nehra said that several people have been demanding to be tested as they fear they are infected. “I will say that not everyone is eligible for a test. Those who have come in contact with infected persons should first quarantine themselves and after seven days, if they have symptoms, they should get themselves tested,” Nehra said. He said that on Monday, the AMC screened 1,437 fruit and vegetable vendors and 1,409 were issued health cards while 28 showed some symptoms and were told to quarantine themselves. He also said that LG Hospital had begun full-fledged operations and 20 women with Covid-19 had delivered babies there, and were then shifted to SVP or Civil hospitals. He also appealed to private clinics and hospitals to start OPD work at the earliest. “We have begun operations at LG Hospital again with doctors and staff taking all precautions. OPD patients were being screened and Covid-19 tests were also being performed on patients about to undergo operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-case-growth-rate-now-below-5-nehra/articleshow/75564803.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Dhananjay Munde addresses essential supply issue in Beed||Aurangabad: Maharashtra minister of social justice and special assistance and district guardian minister Dhananjay Munde asked the district officials to work on shifting Beed district towards green zone during a review meeting held on Monday at the district collectorate. Beed is currently in the orange zone. Munde said that several decisions are being taken to save the district from Covid-19 outbreak and the health of the people is being given importance along with the public sentiments. The review meeting saw presence of MLA Sandeep Kshirsagar, district collector Rahul Rekhawar, superintendent of police Harsh Poddar, Zilla Parishad CEO Ajit Kumbhar, district civil surgeon Ashok Thorat and agriculture officer Rajendra Nikam. In view of extended lockdown, Munde said that efforts are being made to alleviate the problems of the people and prevent infection. “Doctors working for public health also need to be taken care of. Instructions have been given to administration for providing PPE kits to frontline health care providers. About 9,000 PPE kits have been made available for the district and immediate action should be taken by giving instructions at the ministry level to address the problems in the purchase of ventilators,” Munde said during the meeting. He said that for the convenience of farmers, diesel project is being started and a well-equipped vehicle is being provided with a diesel distribution meter and price indicating system is made available in the district in collaboration with Indian Oil Corporation. The minister further said that discussions have been held with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and the home minister Anil Deshmukh for deployment of 550 home guard personnel in the district police department as people stranded in other districts of Beed are being allowed to enter the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dhananjay-munde-addresses-essential-supply-issue-in-beed/articleshow/75563894.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Control rooms keep tabs on drinking water situation: Rajasthan minister||JAIPUR: The state government is continuously monitoring the drinking water situation in the state through control rooms and Covid-19 war rooms, said PHED minister B D Kalla on Tuesday. “Even before the lockdown began, assessing the potential problem of drinking water during the summer season, the state government has allotted Rs 50 lakh to each district to meet contingencies,” added Kalla. “On recommendation of the district collector, contingency proposals received from departmental officers, including new tube wells, private wells on rent, replacement of damaged pipeline and faulty pump sets have been approved and work is in progress. Additional proposals are also being approved by the department as per requirement,” the minister said. At present, drinking water is being transported in 27 cities through 1,962 tanker trips daily. Similarly, 640 tankers daily supply water to 757 villages facing shortage of drinking water. “A total of Rs 65 crore including Rs 41 crore for rural areas and Rs 24 crore for urban areas was released on March 30 for water transportation in the state. Special instructions have also been issued to provide water by tankers under SDRF in four water scarce districts of Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur and Hanumangarh,” Kalla added. The minister said that the 44th hand pump repair campaign has started in the state from April. Repair work of 16,610 hand pumps has been carried out so far. This is in addition to repairs of 2,11,302 hand pumps in rural areas and 32,147 hand pumps in urban areas carried out in 2019-20. Moreover, the state government has also issued approval for 531 vehicles for hire and 2,500 contract workers for hand pump repair campaign and water schemes on January 31. “A three-tier monitoring is in place for redressal of complaints related to drinking water during the lockdown period and summer season. Control rooms have been set up at the state-level and in all districts. They are functional 24x7. The state-level control room is at the Jal Bhawan in Jaipur,” the PHED minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/control-rooms-keep-tabs-on-drinking-water-situation-min/articleshow/75570565.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Farmers in distress as vegetable market remains closed in Bailahongal||Belagavi: The government’s decision not to open the vegetable market yard in Bailahongal has left growers in distress. On Tuesday, farmers arrived at the market yard with truckloads of fruits and vegetables, only to see the market closed and guarded by police. Hundreds of farmers in the region have harvested several horticulture corps and are desperately seeking ways to sell their produce. Mango growers are especially hit as they are not able to connect with the buyers of the seasonal fruit and their dreams of a bumper sale have been shattered. Ramesh Kuri, a farmer, told TOI: “The government had stated that all arrangements would be made to ensure hassle-free supply chain and marketing of agricultural produce. It must allow markets to function properly and farmers are ready to work adhering to social distancing,” he said. He further said that farmers were already beleaguered as supply was broken due to the lockdown. Disallowing the market to function will worsen the farmers’ plight,” he said. The designated market located right opposite the town municipal building was shifted to the space near the Ganesha Temple owing to lockdown. But now trade is banned even in the relocated market, he alleged. Another farmer Mallappa Naik, who has cultivated mango, sapota, banana and chikku said, “We have no buyers at all. Lack of assistance by the local body is adding to our woes. If this indifference by the government continues, farmers will have to dump their produce in the market to rot,” Bailahongal tahslidar Doddappa Hugar said that alternative arrangement have already been made for farmers to sell their produce. On a street in the town boxes have been drawn to maintain social distance and farmers can resume business there. There is clear direction from the deputy commissioner not to reopen the vegetable market, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmers-in-distress-as-vegetable-market-remains-closed-in-bailahongal/articleshow/75562467.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus claims 12 lives, highest single-day spike in Rajasthan so far||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday reported 12 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single day, taking the total casualty count to 89. While six persons died in Jaipur, three each succumbed to the virus in Jodhpur and Kota. Out of the 89 deaths in the state, 50 are from the city. The deceased from the city include a 55-year-old resident of Khajpura in Dudu, a 38-year-old youth from Idgah Basbadanpura, a 50-year-old man from Basbadanpur, 61-year-old woman from Ramchandraji Ki Chokri of Badi Chauper, 30-year-old woman from Shiv Nagar of Murlipura and 20-year-old woman resident of Noorani Masjid area in Purana Jalupura area. In Kota, a 54-year-old-man from Indra Market Shripura, a 47-year-old resident of Kunhari Ladpura and a 48-year-old woman of Sindhi Colony of Gumanpura lost the battle to the virus. In Jodhpur, a 52-year-old man from Ghantaghar area, a 57-year-old from Darpan Cinema area and 55-year-old from Khetanadi Lal Bangla have died. Apart from 12 deaths, 97 persons tested positive across the state. The districts which reported the cases are Jodhpur (41), Jaipur (25), Chittorgarh (9), Kota (9), Tonk (2), Bhilwara (2), Ajmer (5), Alwar (1), Rajsamand (1), Jhalawar (1) and Bharatpur (1). The total cases in the state stand at 3158. In Jaipur, the areas which reported cases are Chandpole (4), Adarsh Nagar (3), Kishanpole Bazaar (2), Jaisinghpura Khor (2), Kalyan Nagar of Tonk Road (2), Ramganj (2), Glass factory on Tonk Road (2) and one each case was reported from Purana Jalupura, Madhvas colony, Bapu Bazaar, Civil Lines, Char Darwaza, Polo Victory area, Mansarovar and Purani Basti. With 29 districts out of 33 districts of the state reporting Covid-19 cases, the health department has decided to develop Covid care centre in all the districts. Health minister Raghu Sharma said they have started working on advance planning for providing treatment to suspected and positive patients outside the residential areas in all the disticts. The dedicated Covid centres will be equipped with all basic facilities. Each centre will have bed capacity from 500 to 1,000. The government is planning to keep patients in these dedicated centres who are asymptomatic or who have mild symptoms of the disease. According to the health department officials, 70% of the total cases do not have any symptoms or have mild symptoms. These patients do not require much care like the other serious patients. Currently, such patients are being kept in hospitals such as SMS Hospital, RUHS Hospital in Jaipur and in district hospitals and those attached to medical colleges. The health department has issued complete guidelines for the dedicated Covid-19 care centers. The health department officials said the centres will be developed in places such as hostel, hotel, dormitory, marriage halls or any other such places. The centres will be different from dedicated Covid-19 care hospitals. According to the guidelines, these centres will have facilities for drinking water, parking facilities, laundry facility, security, food and ambulances. The centres will be equipped with psycho socio support. Counselors will be deployed and means of entertainment will be made available. Also, prophylactic treatment of hydroxychloroquine will be provided to healthcare workers deployed at the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-claims-12-lives-highest-single-day-spike-in-raj-so-far/articleshow/75565285.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Reopening liquor stores will hobble containment efforts: AP doctor associations||VISAKHAPATNAM: Associations of doctors, including Indian Medical Association (IMA) - AP state, AP Junior Doctors’ Association (APJUDA) and AP Government Doctors Association, want the government to roll back its decision of reopening liquor shops in view of the threat it poses in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Alcohol-related crimes including murders over drunken brawls were also reported in some districts. The APJUDA has given a representation to state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas while IMA is also planning to submit a petition to the chief minister’s office and health minister, seeking a ban on liquor sale. Speaking to TOI, vice-president of IMA-Vizag chapter Dr Malladi Sarma said the purpose of social distancing and containing the virus was defeated. “As such, alcohol is injurious to health and at this critical juncture, when people thronging liquor shops are not maintaining physical distance, chances of the spread of the pandemic is going to increase manifold. Road accidents and alcohol-related crimes and ailments will put a burden on both doctors and police, who are already overburdened. From IMA, we will submit a representation to the government soon seeking a ban on liquor sale.” Dr P J Srinivas, joint secretary (south zone) of Indian Public Health Association (IPHA) and a doctor at King George Hospital (KGH) said, “All our relentless efforts and hard work by healthcare workers for Covid control since the last 45 days will be wasted if liquor shops are allowed to function now. Cases are increasing daily. If liquor sale continues, the number of cases will definitely increase apart from other socio-economic fallouts of alcohol consumption. Even if the government enhances the price of liquor by 100%, alcohol addicts will try to procure liquor by any means, by even resorting to crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/reopening-liquor-stores-will-hobble-containment-efforts-doc-associations/articleshow/75562464.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Control rooms keep tabs on drinking water situation: Rajasthan minister||JAIPUR: The state government is continuously monitoring the drinking water situation in the state through control rooms and Covid-19 war rooms, said PHED minister B D Kalla on Tuesday. “Even before the lockdown began, assessing the potential problem of drinking water during the summer season, the state government has allotted Rs 50 lakh to each district to meet contingencies,” added Kalla. “On recommendation of the district collector, contingency proposals received from departmental officers, including new tube wells, private wells on rent, replacement of damaged pipeline and faulty pump sets have been approved and work is in progress. Additional proposals are also being approved by the department as per requirement,” the minister said. At present, drinking water is being transported in 27 cities through 1,962 tanker trips daily. Similarly, 640 tankers daily supply water to 757 villages facing shortage of drinking water. “A total of Rs 65 crore including Rs 41 crore for rural areas and Rs 24 crore for urban areas was released on March 30 for water transportation in the state. Special instructions have also been issued to provide water by tankers under SDRF in four water scarce districts of Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur and Hanumangarh,” Kalla added. The minister said that the 44th hand pump repair campaign has started in the state from April. Repair work of 16,610 hand pumps has been carried out so far. This is in addition to repairs of 2,11,302 hand pumps in rural areas and 32,147 hand pumps in urban areas carried out in 2019-20. Moreover, the state government has also issued approval for 531 vehicles for hire and 2,500 contract workers for hand pump repair campaign and water schemes on January 31. “A three-tier monitoring is in place for redressal of complaints related to drinking water during the lockdown period and summer season. Control rooms have been set up at the state-level and in all districts. They are functional 24x7. The state-level control room is at the Jal Bhawan in Jaipur,” the PHED minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/control-rooms-keep-tabs-on-drinking-water-situation-min/articleshow/75564805.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man killed in ‘accident’, wife’s body found at home||JAIPUR: In a highly complex case, Jaipur police have found a suicide-cum-murder case in Jawahar Circle police station area where a man found dead near Malviya Nagar overbridge, while his wife was found dead at their home in the same locality on Tuesday. The man was identified as Rajkumar Dhudhani, while his wife was identified as Laxmi Dhudhani. The couple was in their mid-60s. Mahendra Kumar Sharma, circle officer, Malviya Nagar said, “Rajkumar’s body was found near Malviya Nagar Puliya (overbridge) on Tuesday morning. His arm was broken and it appeared that he had been walking and hit by a vehicle. His body was taken to the hospital and while searching his clothes, we found a key to his house. On reaching there, we found the body of his wife Laxmi on the bed.” The cops reached the Dhudhani’s house around 8 pm on Tuesday and found that the door was locked from outside. On entering, they saw Laxmi’s body on the bed who had been dead for a while. “The couple had no children and lived in very small accommodation. We found that the door was locked from outside and even found Rajkumar’s bloodied clothes. His wife was bedridden for quite a while now due to various ailments,” added the official. Rajkumar also had a note in his pocket which led the cops to investigate the possibility that it was a case of suicide and murder. Sharma, elaborating on this aspect said, “It appears that Rajkumar killed his wife by slitting her wrists and then committed suicide by walking in front of a vehicle. The note found on him says that the duo will be together forever and even in next birth. The post-mortem of the two bodies will give us the exact cause of death. At present, the scenario of suicide and murder is the one which is making most sense.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-in-accident-wifes-body-found-at-home/articleshow/75564797.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Three special trains for guest workers||Kochi: Three special trains carrying guest workers from Kerala were operated to Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar from Thiruvananthapuram railway division on Tuesday, with two trains from Ernakulam and one from Alappuzha. A special train carrying 1,150 guest workers operated to Mughalsarai in Uttar Pradesh from Ernakulam Junction railway station and each passenger was charged Rs 920. Another train with 1,150 passengers travelled to Hatia in Jharkhand and per person fare was Rs 830. A train from Alappuzha was sent to Bettiah in Bihar with 1,124 guest workers and the ticket fare was Rs 930 per person. On Monday, only two trains operated from Kerala to transport guest workers to their respective states. The train service started on Friday with the first carrying guest workers to Bhubaneswar in Odisha. Five trains were operated from Kerala on the next two days each. First train from Kerala to West Bengal was operated on Monday midnight after it was rescheduled from afternoon due to delay in approval from Bengal government. Similar situation aroused with the train to Hatia on Monday. Total 13 trains were operated from Kerala to various north Indian states from Friday night till Monday midnight. Though the Kerala government planned to operate five trains daily for guest workers, the respective state governments are not ready to take in more passengers and arrange quarantine facilities for them, since people are coming in from across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-special-trains-for-guest-workers/articleshow/75562492.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Many in queue were ‘hired’ to procure booze for others||VISAKHAPATNAM: While protests and signature campaigns by NGOs against the government’s move to open liquor shops continue, it was learnt from various sources that many amongst the thousands who queued up outside liquor shops over the last two days were actually ‘hired’ by local slum leaders with political connections to buy booze on their behalf. Most of them were daily wage workers and poor people from the slums who were paid for their ‘services’ of standing under the hot sun for hours together. Some were also offered free booze besides their ‘wages’. Activists say political parties are using the reopening of liquor shops to do the ‘groundwork’ for the upcoming local body and municipal elections. Hiking the cost of liquor by 75 per cent or limiting the timings of the sale will not solve the problem but will only increase crime besides aiding in the spread of Covid virus, they warned. Advocate and social activist Abdul Raqueeb, who interacted with some of those queuing up outside liquor shops, said most of them were urban slum dwellers or vagabonds, who have been put up at various GVMC shelters and are getting free meals and essentials distributed by the government or NGOs daily. “None of them are migrant workers. I found they were paid upto Rs 2,000 to procure liquor by their slum leaders or small party workers. At a time when they have no jobs due to the lockdown, this came as an opportunity to make some some money besides getting free liquor as well. With the civic body elections coming up, distributing liquor would be one of the ploys to attract voters,” Raqueeb said. A doctor who has been associated with Covid relief works in various shelters concurred with the advocate. “Those getting freebies as Covid relief might have been given money to buy booze as well keeping the upcoming civic polls in mind,” he said. A few people even took to social media with suggestions. “Every person coming to the liquor shop should be marked with indelible ink (like the one used in elections). Such persons should not be eligible for free food and kits distributed by the government and NGOs. Their ration should be stopped. If they have money to spend on booze, then there is no need to give them freebies with tax-payers’ money,” one of them wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/many-in-queue-were-hired-to-procure-booze-for-others/articleshow/75562473.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Work at JDA sites gains momentum||JAIPUR: Work at four Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) construction sites has gained momentum following lockdown relaxations announced by the government. An official said the work at Jhotwara elevated road began on April 26 and since then five piles have been launched. Similarly, work for railway over bridges (RoB) at Sitapura, Danthli and Jahota has started rolling.  “The site offices are disinfected and engineers can also inspect the projects. Social distancing is seriously followed at the sites,” the official said. Officials said it was necessary to start work as cost of the multi-crore rupee projects would escalate. However, sources in the department said with most labourers having gone back to their native states, JDA has an uphill task to complete the projects even after the lockdown is lifted. At present, there are only 70 labourers at the sites. Moreover, contractors have expressed concern over supply of raw materials from other states. A senior engineer of project wing at JDA said, “In a letter, contractors of the projects have asked for extension and relaxation as it’s a double whammy for them. They are expecting to suffer huge losses due to the delay.” Currently, construction of two elevated projects and five RoBs worth approximately Rs 800 crore has been undertaken by JDA. “The contractors have mobilised heavy machinery for these projects and the fixed cost is being borne by them. A request has been made for financial assistance as it could not be decided at JDA’s level,” said an official source. “JDA has taken Rs 2,250 crore loans from National Capital Regional Planning Board (NCRPB) for city’s projects. It has to pay approx Rs 30 crore instalments against the loan taken only for Dravyavati river,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/work-at-jda-sites-gains-momentum/articleshow/75565291.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI seeks to pay minimum wages to daily wagers||AHMEDABAD: With payday nearing, industrial units facing revenue shortfall and liquidity problems have sought relaxation from the state government over payments to labourers. A representation regarding this was sent by the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) to chief minister, Vijay Rupani. GCCI has proposed that labourers employed as daily wagers be paid minimum wages in accordance with what has been proposed under MGNREGA. Meanwhile, the industry body also sought to make partial payments to employees. “Workers who earn up to Rs 20,000 per month be paid 70% of their salaries whereas those earning more than Rs 20,000 be paid 50% of their salaries,” according to the representation. GCCI has also sought clarity on whether the government directive of making full payments is applicable to industrial units manufacturing essential commodities in orange and green zones. The representation says that industry is in no position to make full salary payments to employees. “Factories located in red zones are not operational and some representatives of manufacturing units in red zones have approached the Supreme Court over the government’s directions to make payment of full salaries to labourers,” mentions the representation. The industry body has also urged the government that migrant workers who have been paid salaries for April be exempted from the return facilitated by the government, else it would be detrimental to industrial operations.  [NP1]||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-seeks-to-pay-minimum-wages-to-daily-wagers/articleshow/75563907.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Activists miffed over railways charging guest workers||Kochi: On May Day, hundreds of labourers who took the special train to Bhubaneswar from Aluva had to unwillingly part with Rs 530 per head as ticket charges. The insistence that these interstate workers, many of them who had no jobs and income support for weeks because of the Covid-19 situation, should pay for their journey was unavoidable, migrant rights activists said. It was particularly hard on those who had families travelling together because only small children were exempted from tickets. An official with Ernakulam district administration said they collected money from 90% of passengers but did not force anyone to pay. “We collected Rs 530 from the passengers. There was no other choice,” said the senior official who also admitted lack of funds. The train carrying passengers that left for Bhubanswar at 9.55pm on Friday had 1,140 passengers including children. “Tickets of many of the labourers were paid by their contractors or owners of industrial units where they were working,” he said. One of the workers on the train scheduled to reach Bhubaneswar on Saturday midnight said that they were forced to spend on the ticket. “When I told them that I had no money to spare, a policeman and another official scolded me and asked me to leave if I had no money. I paid for the ticket because I had no other option,” said Manoranjan Das, who hails from Bhadrak district in Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/activists-miffed-over-railways-charging-guest-workers/articleshow/75550355.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt reverses move to deploy teachers at liquor outlets||Visakhapatnam: The district administration on Tuesday backtracked on its decision to deploy government school teachers to manage crowd at liquor outlets in rural Visakhapatnam after drawing flak for the move. Various teachers’ unions had slammed the move and requested the district education officer to reverse the decision. They had threatened to boycott the duties from Tuesday. District education officer B Lingeswara Reddy said only a few teachers were deployed for crowd management at liquor shops on Monday. “But at the directions of the district collector, we have withdrawn their services at these outlets on Tuesday,” said Reddy. Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan said, “If the government wanted to use their services, the teachers can be deputed for supplying food to the poor, other supervisory activities and spreading awareness on Covid-19 pandemic.”. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-reverses-move-to-deploy-teachers-at-liquor-outlets/articleshow/75562490.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Constable held for accepting Rs 15,000 bribe||AURANGABAD: The officers of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught a head constable posted at fixed-point under the limits of Jawahar Nagar police station while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. An offence was registered against head constable Yamaji Laxman Khatane (51) under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act on late Monday night. He was produced before the court on Tuesday, which remanded him in judicial custody. The accused moved an application seeking bail, which was granted by the court. Sources at the police station said that the case reportedly involves a gutka trader, who was recently booked for trading the banned substance. The trader was evading arrest. Superintendent of police (ACB) Arvind Chawria said that Khatane had allegedly demanded a bribe for not arresting the man, against whom an offence was registered at Jwahar Nagar police station. Unwilling to give in to the policeman’s demand, the trader reached out to the Aurangabad unit of ACB office, where a complaint was register after a verification was carried out on Monday. After confirmation, the trader went to see Khatane at Baudhanagar fixed point— the place where the policeman asked the suspect to see him— with the powdered currency notes. Khatane was nabbed soon after he accepted the bribe from the trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/constable-held-for-accepting-rs-15000-bribe/articleshow/75563905.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Order returns, Rajasthan clocks Rs 75 crore liquor sales in a day||JAIPUR: After chaos and queues on the first day of opening of liquor shops after 40 days, order prevailed as tipplers lined up dutifully following social distancing norms on Tuesday. Senior officials of the state excise department said the shops across the state clocked sales worth Rs 75 crore. People could be seen carrying away crates of liquor fearing the shops might run out of stock. Barricades and police deployment ensured people followed social distancing norms and the size of the queues was considerably smaller compared to Monday. Many paid through digital modes as encouraged by the department. Excise department officials said they were trying to strengthen the supply from depots to shops, while pushing distillers and breweries to produce more. But beer will be in short supply in the coming days as breweries did not have time to produce enough to meet the summer demand because of lockdown. “Demand for beer goes up significantly in summer months. The breweries start production months before the onset of summer,” said state excise commissioner Bishnu Charan Mallick. ‘We will try to push production’“This was not possible this year due to the lockdown. But we will try to push production to meet the demand,” said Mallick. Because of the lockdown, business hours at shops have been changed from 10am to 6pm. On the day, shops selling both Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country liquor clocked sales of Rs 75 crore. On Monday, the revenue was only Rs 59 crore as shops had to be closed after large crowds gathered in front of shops in urban areas. A shop owner said that even though the queues were shorter, most customers bought quantities that seemed like for a week. “There was an element of panic buying. But it could also be that they don’t want to come to the shop every day. So the time to serve one customer took triple the time compared to ordinary days,” said Rajesh Dukia, a shop owner. After Delhi imposed 75 per cent corona tax on liquor, people were apprehensive that the state government might also take a similar decision. “This was another reason behind some customers tanking up,” said another shop owner. But phone calls and text messages to senior excise department officials on whether the state was mulling such a tax went unanswered. On April 29, the department had raised additional duty on liquor and beer by up to 15 per cent, estimated to bring in additional revenues to the tune of Rs 800 crore to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/order-returns-state-clocksrs-75cr-liquor-sales-in-a-day/articleshow/75565293.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar man’s musical ears made film songs immortal||Ahmedabad: In the words of legendary composer Pyarelal Sharma (of Laxmikant-Pyarelal fame), a sound recordist infuses life into a song; however beautifully composed, arranged or even written, it is this technician who makes it more melodious by ensuring a perfect mix of all musical instruments. On Monday, the Hindi film music industry lost a man who infused life into thousands of songs. Durlabhdas Odhavjibhai Bhansali, the veteran sound recordist of the golden era of Hindi film songs, died at his hometown Jamnagar. He was 95.Bhansali's name may not strike a chord with most people, as, like most members of film music department team, their credits roll away too quickly from the screen. But those who have worked with him swear by his sheer sense of music. "He had great understanding of tone and rhythm while recording. We have done innumerable films together. He was man of few words who only believed in executing his work perfectly," Pyarelalji told TOI. He particularly remembers "Main Shayar Toh Nahi.." from Bobby recorded with him. Lata Mangeshkar also expressed grief over his death. "I am saddened to hear about the demise of our industry's famous sound recordist Bhansaliji. Besides being a very good sound recordist, he was a very nice person too," she tweeted. Bhansali recorded nearly 13,000 songs in his career spanning four decades, some of the most famous being Satyam Shivam Sundaram (Title tract), Dost Dost Na Raha (Sangam), Tere Mere Milan Ki Yeh Raina (Abhimaan), Piya Tu Ab Toh Aaja (Caravan). Leaving Jamnagar in search of work in Mumbai, Bhansali, happened to meet that era's ace recordist Minoo Katrak and trained under him at Famous Laboratory, Tardeo. Bhansali had studied only till Class IX, but absorbed the skill with so much perfection that in years to come India's all the top music directors - Shanker-Jaikishan, SD Burman, RD Burman and Madan Mohan, to name few -- wanted him as a permanent member in the recording studio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-mans-musical-ears-made-film-songs-immortal/articleshow/75554893.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mysuru||Youth killed by friends in drunken brawl||Mysuru: A youth was stabbed to death allegedly by his two friends following a drunken brawl in Udayagiri police station limits late on Monday. The crime took place within 12 hours of opening of liquor shops, allowing people to get booze after six weeks of lockdown. Sathish was found dead near Kyathamaranahalli in south-east of Mysuru with stab injuries in an open place in the locality, police said. Sathish along with his two friends, Madhu and Kiran, had partied at night and the trio got into an argument that ended in murder. According to sources, Sathish and his friends had quarrelled over a girl. Sathish worked in a shop as a helper. In another incident, an inebriated driver in Nanjangud lost balance over his car and drove into an open field. The vehicle later toppled. Yogesh of Hullahalli was carrying liquor bottles in his car when the incident took place. Luckily, he escaped without any injuries. He was alone at the time of incident which took place near Byalyaru village, near his native place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youth-killed-by-friends-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/75562515.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KPCC chief fumes as CM refuses funds from Congress||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state government has not taken any money from anyone to send the guest labourers back home through special trains. Hence there was no need for accepting the money from the Congress. However, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran alleged that the chief minister was engaged in cheap political game by denying the funds provided by the five district congress committees to the respective district administration. The DCCs from the five districts tried to hand over Rs 10 lakh each to the respective district collectors earlier in the day towards the ticket fare of the guest labourers who was taken back home through special trains. The move was to protest against the decision to take ticket fare from the guest labourers. However the district collectors of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Kannur and Kozhikode refused to accept the fund since they had specific instructions from the government. The KPCC president said it was under the direction from the chief minister that the district collectors were not ready to accept the money. “When the Congress is coming forward to help the pravasis and gest labourers, the chief minister is insulting the Congress leaders. It is unjustifiable for a person who is holding the position of a chief minister. He at times behaves like a political leader from Kannur,” alleged Mullappally Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kpcc-chief-fumes-as-cm-refuses-funds-from-congress/articleshow/75562545.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Top officials reach out to hot spots in containment zones||Aurangabad: All senior officials of the administration led by revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar reached out to narrow lanes of the containment zones that have now been marked as hot spots for Covid-19.On Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases breached the 300 mark and recorded over 320 cases, following which the administration sought further co-operation from residents of areas with maximum number of cases. During his visit to Sanjay Nagar, Mukundwadi and other major areas of the city, district collector Uday Choudhary asked people to remain indoors and help in breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection in the city. Divisional commissioner Kendrekar walked through the narrow lanes of containment zones and the surrounding areas along with Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey. Sources said that the gesture was aimed at boosting the morale of healthcare workers posted on the frontline. The officers also wanted to send a message to the residents of these areas that the fight is against the disease and not them.Through a public announcement system, Kendrekar appealed to the youths to remain indoors so that the elderly members, children and all those with lesser immunity do not take a hit. “All those who have died so far in Aurangabad were not the ones who stepped out and violated lockdown norms. In most of the cases, it were the health and young members of the family that became silent carriers and passed on the infection to their family members,” said Kendrekar. He even appealed to the residents to co-operate and take advantage of the screening and testing being carried out in these areas so that all those who have been infected and are silent carriers are identified and isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/top-officials-reach-out-to-hot-spots-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75563917.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: RTOs give free khichdi to truck drivers at inter-state check posts||AURANGABAD: Truck drivers involved in supply of essential and non-essential goods are having a tough time in getting food on the highways as most of the dhabas and hotels are closed due to the ongoing lockdown. Keeping this in mind, the regional transport offices (RTO) in Marathwada have started offering free khichdi to the drivers at inter-state border check points. Biloli and Degular in Nanded district and Omerga in Osmanabad district have inter-state border check points for vehicles moving to and from Telangana and Karnataka. A senior official from the state transport department said there are a total of 23 inter-state border check points across Maharashtra, including three in Marathwada, and they have been asked to serve freshly cooked khichdi to truck drivers till the lockdown is not lifted. "Maharashtra shares borders with Telangana, Karnataka, Gujrat and Madhya Pradesh and all vehicles pass from these inter-state border check points. The vehicular traffic from these check posts has come down by around 15 % to 20% due to lockdown. While the drivers of goods carrying vehicles have been feeling the brunt of lockdown, we are making efforts at our end to help them in overcoming the food issues during travel," the official said. The RTO authorities have been asked to take the help of locals in cooking khichdi that is then packed in boxes for distribution at check points. "The norms related to social distancing and hygiene are strictly followed while cooking and distributing the food. The gesture show by us has been well appreciated by the drivers," he said. "The food is being served all throughout the day. A separate workforce has been given the task to look after cooking and distribution of khichdi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rtos-give-free-khichdi-to-truck-drivers-at-inter-state-check-posts/articleshow/75563931.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Requests pour in from stranded labour to return||Visakhapatnam: Requests to return home continue to pour in at the collectorate as governments across the country facilitate migrants workers to reach their home towns. On an average, district officials are receiving 1,000 to 1,500 each day. So far the district administration has received around 10,000 requests from the migrant labourer from Visakhapatnam stranded in other districts and states and around 8,000 from migrant labourer from other states stranded in Visakhapatnam. “We have been receiving a large number of requests from the migrant labour from not only other districts — mostly Guntur, Prakasam, Krishna and East Godavari — but also other states such as Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. Many of the labourers stranded in the city are from UP, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. We have set up two helpline numbers for this,” joint collector Venugopal Reddy told TOI. The majority of stranded workers are from Odisha. “Around 2,500 workers from Odisha are in the city and we are trying for a train. Another 850 workers from Jharkhand and 800 from Bihar are also stranded in the city. We have asked the government to arrange for means to send them home ,” a senior revenue official said. A train from Mount Abu in Rajasthan would leave on Tuesday night and reach on Thursday. “It was scheduled to reach today night. But the train has not started due to some reason. A few students and around 300 people of north Andhra districts are coming in that train,” the joint collector said. He further added that district officials are informing applicants that they would take care of their request. “It is not possible for us to address all applications at the same time. We are informing them that we are taking necessary permissions from states concerned to bring them back and send the migrant labour stranded in Visakhapatnam as well,’ joint collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/requests-pour-in-from-stranded-labour-to-return/articleshow/75562507.cms||Siva G
May 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar warns top officials in Pune over confusing orders||PUNE: Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday warned the top revenue, civic and police officials that they will face strict action if they continue to issue multiple orders pertaining to lockdown relaxations in non-containment zones in the city. Citizens have been left confused by the orders from multiple agencies, which are often contradictory to each other. Earlier in the day, state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued an order clarifying that only the municipal commissioners from the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) will take a call on regulating the timing of shops that have been permitted to operate. However, despite this, a joint press conference addressed by Pune’s top officials in the evening failed to address the confusion stemming from the contradictory orders, forcing Pawar to step in and issue the warning. "I have told the Pune divisional commissioner, district collector, Pune municipal commissioner and Pune police commissioner to come up with one single order. I have directed them to meet and issue that one final order, failing which severe action will be taken. I was told that the multiple orders issued over the past two days have been creating confusion among the citizens,” Pawar told TOI. Mehta had stated in his order, “It is very necessary to ensure smooth and seamless availability of supplies. Regulating the markets and shops with various restrictions such as specific days, timings, entry points etc is proving counterproductive and it is seen to be attracting crowd due to uncertainty.” Mehta said all shops and markets that have been allowed to remain open as per his May 2 and 3 order can operate for the full time allotted — 7am to 7pm. Only the municipal commissioner in the corporation limits and the collector in other areas can regulate these timings if needed. While Mehta’s order categorically states that no other authority can impose any other restriction about timings, there have been several instances of shops being forced to closed early. Vexed by the multiple orders, the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) on Monday had appealed to all shop owners and traders across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to keep their establishments shut until there was clarity on operations. The joint press conference on Tuesday evening was attended by divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham. Mediapersons present for the meeting had expected that the four officers would issue a joint statement to stem the confusion over multiple orders. But that did not happen. Venkatesham maintained that people wanting to use their vehicles for non-essential work would require a police digital pass. “Vehicles found plying without valid passes and valid reasons (like medical emergency) will be impounded. A minimum security fee of Rs 2,500 will be charged on the spot,” he said. Ram said common citizens will not get petrol at the fuel pumps in the municipal corporation areas unless they had a valid travel pass issued by the police or other government agencies. Interestingly, based on the state guidelines, Pune municipal commissioner Gaikwad on Sunday had granted permission for non-essential shops to open, with a cap of five shops per lane. Gaikwad told TOI that he would be issuing fresh orders on Wednesday regarding the opening of such shops. Despite repeated questions from the media, the authorities refused to clarify how the owners and staff of shops selling non-essential items would be able to reach their establishments if the police were cracking down on travel and if the pumps were refusing them fuel as they fall in the “non-essential” category. Many citizens have pointed out that the travel pass and fuel restrictions by the local authorities are in conflict with the state order that allows travel by citizens (one person on a two-wheeler and three in a car) in non-containment zones. An official from the petrol dealers’ association said, “The Pune collector told us in the morning that we could sell petrol to citizens. By evening, everything had changed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-warns-top-officials-in-pune-over-confusing-orders/articleshow/75565296.cms||Abhijit Atre
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Return of 3.25 lakh workers ensured: Gujarat government||GANDHINAGAR: The state government said in a statement on Tuesday that it has ensured the return of 3.25 lakh migrant workers to their native places. These include 42,000 workers who were from other states and the remaining were workers from within the state who had travelled to other cities for employment. Ashwani Kumar, the secretary to the CM, said that 35 labour trains have so far carried 42,000 persons back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and other places. In addition, the state government also gave permission to labourers residing in Surat to return to their native districts/talukas. This includes 5,500 workers travelling on ST buses, 1.67 lakh workers in private vehicles, and 1.14 lakh workers using their own vehicles or other means. About 28,000 migrant workers have been sent to their home states on 23 trains over the past three days. In addition, about 14,000 migrant workers left on 12 trains on Tuesday. The chief minister has formed a committee to ensure the overall management and coordination for sending migrant workers from Surat to their native districts/talukas. The committee is headed by minister of state for health Kishor Kanani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/return-of-3-25l-workers-ensured-govt/articleshow/75563938.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Udaipur||Back from Surat, Rajasthan labourer quarantines himself on a tree||JAIPUR: An 18-year-old migrant worker in Daabkiya village of Udaipur district climbed a tree and stayed there for three days to socially distance himself from his family amid the corona pandemic. The village sarpanch and a few other villagers, however, persuaded him to climb down on Tuesday. They have assured the worker, Ishwar Lal Rawat, of all help and asked him to sleep on a cot outside his house. Rawat arrived from Surat in a truck on May 2. For the safety of his family, he decided to quarantine himself on a tree near his house. “There was no work left for us in Surat. Somehow, I managed to be back in my village. But it was difficult to quarantine myself in my house. We have only two rooms and seven members,” said Ishwar. Quarantine facility in school has no electricityMy one-year-old nephew is quite naughty and will not stay away. Hence, I decided to build a temporary structure on the neem tree in my house with wood, tin and put a mattress over it,” said Ishwar. He two brothers also arrived from Mumbai on May 4 after facing immense hardships to reach the village. They have decided to stay in separate rooms at their home, but showed their appreciation for their brother’s decision. Ishwar’s elder brother Pappu Lal Rawat said, “We did not force him to stay on a tree. But the house is small and we do not have enough space to isolate everyone. His sacrifice at the time of crisis for the sake of the family is commendable.” Ishwar used to stay on the tree the entire day and also slept there. Except for eating and relieving himself, he had seldom come down. Village sarpanch Laxman Rawat, however, objected to it. “We have built a proper quarantine facility in the village school. But, he refused to stay there and decided to stay on a tree. This is absolutely not necessary,” Rawat said. Ishwar’s father Bhamru Lal Rawat said that there was no electricity in the school which forced his son to stay on the tree. Watch Rajasthan: Migrant worker back from Surat, quarantines himself on a tree||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/back-from-surat-rajasthan-labourer-quarantines-himself-on-a-tree/articleshow/75565306.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
May 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cashew procurement rates dip as traders struggle to access markets in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cashew procurement rate for an 88-kilo bag has come down to Rs 6,000 from over Rs 12,000 the previous year. Farmers fear that the procurement rates could plummet even further once the supply goes up after the lockdown is completely relaxed. S Koteswara Rao, member of the Palasa Cashew Manufacturers’ Association said, “ As of now, the procurement rate is Rs 6,000 per bag, given that the actual number of farmers who supply cashew is almost negligible due to the coronavirus scare. Contrary to what people believe, once the supply increases, the prices will fall further considering the low demand and the excess African stock on hand.” Farmers, too, are trying to ensure that their stock reaches the market at the earliest. However, their efforts are being hampered by the lack of labour. Ch Raju of Ramannapalem village told TOI, “As farmers we understand that time is of essence. The one’s who hit the market first will definitely get a better rate. However, there is one glitch, lack of labour. People are still wary of coming back to work.” It must be noted that much of the cashew being processed has been imported from African countries this year and the market procurement rate was projected to be hit. In the case of local farmers this season, those who can actually sell during the lockdown period are likely to be the lucky ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cashew-procurement-rates-dip-as-traders-struggle-to-access-markets/articleshow/75562523.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Startup makes pressure support ventilator||Kochi: A Maker Village-incubated startup has built a pressure-support ventilation (PSV) system, which is highly cost-effective and manufactured using locally sourced materials. Oxy’AR (Automated Resuscitator), the low-cost, portable system prototyped by HW Design Labs, is capable of pressure support ventilation and other modes by using adaptive pressure/volume control mechanisms. PSV systems offer a spontaneous mode of ventilation in which every breath initiated by the patient gets support from the ventilator, which helps the person regain the respiratory rate. “Most of low-cost ventilators are Ambu bags which provide mechanical support and therefore increase the risk of lung injury. When you force air into lungs it could be choking for some patients,” said HW Design Labs founder Jayakrishnan A N. “The system has in-built sensors for pressure, volume, heart rate, SpO2 and humidity and can monitor the vital parameters and remotely update the statistics to the medical staff thus reducing the risk of infection. The system is also capable of working using the in-built battery for four to six hours,” he said. According to Jayakrishnan, the ventilator prototyped by them is easy to manufacture and deploy in volumes in the backdrop of novel coronavirus spread. It is also highly cost-effective and per unit price would be around Rs 4,800 (volume estimates). “The product however needs to undergo validation by ICMR and other approved laboratories for necessary quality and regulatory compliance,” he said. The product can be deployed at houses and vehicles as well. Developing the machine during the lockdown situation which has severely restricted travel and logistics was not easy. Jayakrishnan said the low-cost development was possible because the Maker Village provides facilities to design, develop and test the product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startup-makes-pressure-support-ventilator/articleshow/75550405.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Narmada flattens curve, all 12 patients go home||Vadodara: Authorities in the Narmada district heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday after the last two positive patients were discharged on Tuesday. The district had witnessed 12 cases of coronavirus in the last 20 days and all the positive patients were admitted to an Ayurvedic Hospital that was turned into Covid hospital in Rajpipla. While other cities were already in the grip of the pandemic, coronavirus reached Narmada district only on April 15. “We got first two positive cases following which we swung into action. We already had all the facilities for quarantining and treating the patients. Within next few days, some more cases of Coronavirus were reported,” said Dr R S Kashyap, epidemic medical officer, Narmada. “The first few cases had travel history as they had travelled to different districts before arriving in Narmada. Whenever, any suspect case was reported, we immediately quarantined the persons with whom the person had come in contact with. We also tested them for the virus,” Kashyap told TOI. All the 12 persons including some senior citizens had some symptoms following which they were tested for the virus. “We traced their travel history and found out that they had come in contact with hundreds of persons. Many of them were quarantined and also tested. Fortunately, none of those persons and even the family members tested positive,” Kashyap added. While nine persons are under quarantine in Narmada, as of now, there is no positive case in the district. The last positive case was reported on April 23. All the 12 persons who have been discharged, though, will be kept under observation and they have to remain isolated for next few days. The authorities are, however, on the alert as many people stuck in other districts may soon start arriving in Narmada bringing with them the threat of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/narmada-flattens-curve-all-12-patients-go-home/articleshow/75561001.cms||Tushar Tere
May 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Beware, snakes don’t have any lockdown||Kannur: A few days ago when a jewellery shop in Payyannur was opened for cleaning, after relaxation in Covid-19 lockdown, the owner spotted a python in a corner. Wildlife rescuers were called in to catch the snake, and they found that it had laid eggs and was hatching it. “The python was hatching 27 eggs, so we rescued it and shifted to a safe place where it could continue hatching,” said rescuer Pavithran Annukkaran. It had entered via the tiled roof, he said. In the last one month, he caught around 37 snakes from different parts of the district, and most of them were cobras, he said. “The lockdown has brought down people’s movements and so the presence of snakes is visible even in urban areas,” he said. “Snakes come out in search of cool places during summer. This year, people are frequently spotting them near their houses, mainly because they are at home. Besides, the environment around is calm and so the reptiles come out,” said Nisheesh Chalode, another snake rescuer. He rescued around 100 snakes in the last one month or so. In a single day he got calls to rescue 16 snakes, he added. “Ensure that you do not stock unwanted things and gunny bags outside your houses. Also, snakes prefer to enter toilets due to the dampness,” Chalode added. However, there doesn’t seem to be an increase in snake population. According to Chandran Kuttikkol, another wildlife rescuer, the sighting of snakes has come down in recent times. “I got very few calls recently and I don’t think that more snakes are coming out because of the calm in the lockdown,” he said. He advises people not to release the snakes in faraway places because they are territorial creatures. “Normally snakes live within a 3km surrounding. If you catch and release them in faraway places they would not be able to survive,” he added. Though we cannot assertively say more snakes are being spotted in human habitats now, the lockdown has provided them the freedom of movement, said Riyaz Mangad, an expert associated with Parassinikkadavu Snake Park. At least 300 snakes have been rescued in the recent days in the district, he said. This means the human-snake encounter rate has increased, said Roshnath Ramesh, a wildlife biologist and researcher. “I feel the sightings have increased since people are at home and they observe the surroundings more closely. Since the surroundings are calm, there is possibility of natural foraging going high. However, it does not mean their population has gone up,” he said. We should study the environmental impact on the living organism during lockdown, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/beware-snakes-dont-have-any-lockdown/articleshow/75562590.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Eight cops quarantined after bootlegger tests positive||PALANPUR: Eight policemen of Prantij police station of Sabarkantha district were asked to remain home quarantined after a bootlegger whom they had caught on April 30 tested positive in Himmatnagar Civil Hospital on Tuesday. Two bootleggers who were on way to Rajasthan from Ahmedabad were caught by a police team led by a sub-inspector in Gambhoi village near Prantij.  Meanwhile, Aravalli district registered the second Covid-19 death after a 31-year-old man died on Tuesday. The patient Hanif Usman Gujarati tested positive in Modasa after returning from Ahmedabad where his mother died due to kidney ailment. Following the second death in Modasa, some areas have been declared as containment zones. Earlier, a 70-year-old woman from Ushalpur village near Bhiloda had succumbed to the virus. In Banaskantha, the number of cases spiked to 52 after nine more tested positive, said Jawahar Chandani, executive officer, Palanpur-based Banas Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/8-cops-quarantined-after-bootlegger-tests-positive/articleshow/75562586.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||State to request Centre to put paddy cultivation under MGNREGS||Mangaluru: Minister for agriculture B C Patil said, “Karnataka will write to the Centre, seeking inclusion of labour for cultivation of paddy, as an activity under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). This move will benefit youths who have come back to rural areas due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This will ensure that the youth are gainfully employed, and agriculture as an activity helps sustain the rural economy.” Reviewing agriculture operations on Tuesday in Dakshina Kannada district, Patil acceded to a request from Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, to bring agriculture activities under the MGNREGS. Nalin said changes in guidelines will certainly give a fillip to agriculture, and help districts become self-reliant with their requirement of foodgrains and cereals such as rice. “The finance department has given the go ahead for appointment of 2,236 raitha mitras for the state, and one such raitha mitra will look after two gram panchayats. The department has framed cadre and recruitment rules for their appointment, and 85% of them will be agriculture diploma holders, and the rest, BSc (agriculture) degree holders. They will be an interface between farmers and the department, to help them with their needs, and give them information about various schemes,” he said. Plans are afoot to provide vehicles to all 742 raitha samparka kendras (RSK) in the state, as against the 40-odd mentioned in this years’ agriculture budget, he said. The RSK officials will reach out to farmers facing specific issues, and their vehicles will also be equipped with mini soil testing equipment, Patil said, adding these steps are being taken in line with chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s vision that farmers do not face any further distress in these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/state-to-request-centre-to-put-paddy-cultivation-under-mgnregs/articleshow/75562605.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat has no work from home plans for its employees||GANDHINAGAR: With lockdown 3.0 in force, the state government has issued a notification to resume work at government offices with one-third staff. However, the Gujarat government has no plans to introduce work from home (WFH) option for employees yet. Almost all government offices – except those in essential services like health, police and other necessary works – remained closed in the first two phases of the lockdown and all employees were paid full salaries. Some officers in the state government are of the opinion that at a time when the state government is promoting and insisting that citizens should get their work done online, it is unfortunate that government employees are being forced to attend offices. A tech-savvy deputy secretary rank official said that at the secretariat, most officers and other employees have file-related work. “This work can easily be completed from a remote place and it is not necessary for us to be physically present at the office. By forcing us to remain present, the risk of us getting infected by Covid-19 increases,” the officer, who did not want to be named, said. He added that it is unfortunate that the state government makes claims of “faceless governance”, but employees are forced to attend office. “A number of central government PSUs and departments are allowing employees to work from home, but the state government is still not open to the idea,” the officer said. Another senior officer claimed that productivity of non-essential departments in the state government has hit rock-bottom, yet salaries are being paid in full to all employees. “At least, on a trial basis, the government should allow officers to work from home. The Integrated Workflow and Document Management System (IWDMS) for online file management was introduced a long back, but nobody uses it. If it had been adopted earlier, it would have increased productivity during the lockdown,” the official said. Kamal Dayani, principal secretary, general administration department (GAD), when contacted, said that the state government has no plans yet of allowing employees to work from home. “The government has decided to work at one-third strength. Employees living in containment areas are not being called to office. However, if the GOI issues any guidelines, we could consider the option of allowing employees to work from home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-has-no-wfh-plans-for-its-employees/articleshow/75563992.cms||Kapil Dave
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||One lakh litres of alcohol were sold in Dharwad district the day liquor stores reopened||HUBBALLI: Dharwad district saw the sale of 75,812 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and 24,700 litres of beer on Monday when stores reopened as part of easing of lockdown restrictions. According to the data sourced by the deputy commissioner of excise (Dharwad), Hubballi city recorded the highest sale with 40,000 litres of IMFL and 16,500 litres of beer. Dharwad secured the second spot with the sale of 22,595 litres of IMFL and 6,023 litres of beer. By Monday evening, many stores had their stocks cleared. On Tuesday morning, most of the stores were waiting for the arrival of fresh stock. Many stores, which exhausted the stock, did not open till the fresh supply arrived. Officials said that shops, who raised a request for stock, received the same by 12pm. They said there is enough stock at the depots of Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd and distilleries have resumed production. In Dharwad district, 68 shops with CL 2 licence and 24 CL11 C (MSIL) shops were allowed to sell liquor. These outlets can operate from 9am to 7pm. The shops located in containment areas continue to remain shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1-lakh-litres-of-alcohol-were-sold-in-dharwad-district-the-day-liquor-stores-reopened/articleshow/75565565.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dholera pitched as China alternative||AHMEDABAD: Dholera SIR Developers’ Association (DSDA) has sought to push Dholera Special Investment Region (SIR) as an investment destination to the companies in China that are exploring alternative geographies in India and Gujarat. A representation regarding this was made by DSDA to the Government of Gujarat, recently. Several companies who currently have their manufacturing base in China are looking to move out and India is at a very sweet spot for such companies, according to DSDA. “Being a greenfield smart city project, Dholera SIR is an ideal investment destination for companies that want to set up a manufacturing base,” said Rajdipsinh Chudasama, vice-president, DSDA. “This is because infrastructure is available readily for companies to set up base and begin manufacturing immediately. Moreover, with a single-window clearance system supported by the state government, it is indeed an ideal destination for companies looking to move out of China.” Chudasama went on to say: “We have urged the state government to push for Dholera as an investment destination to these companies. Moreover, Gujarat can also serve as a hub for import and exports hub due to land availability, labour availability, good port facility, road connectivity and 24x7 power supply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dholera-pitched-as-china-alternative/articleshow/75564007.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hotels, restaurants want 6-month tax holiday in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Hotels and Restaurants Association (HRA) of Gujarat has sought a six-month tax holiday from the state government, over losses incurred by the tourism and hospitality sector due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a representation made to the state government recently, HRA Gujarat said the hospitality sector is reeling from a severe working capital crunch. “The hospitality sector needs a lot of working capital which has taken a 90% hit. Paying GST and advance taxes, excise, licences fees, property tax and electricity duty will be extremely difficult. Moreover, several hoteliers had taken loans to construct and run establishments and in such times, timely payment of EMIs will be difficult,” the representation says. The association has sought a tax holiday from GST payments up to March 31, 2021. They have sought that the interest subsidy given to new hotels be extended to existing ones as well. The association also sought an electricity duty waiver for one year. “The property tax for 2020-21 should be completely waived while that for 2021-22 should be cut by 50%,” the representation says. The association has also sought a complete waiver of VAT on gas charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotels-restaurants-want-6-month-tax-holiday/articleshow/75564032.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court to Maharashtra govt: Who will pay for migrants’ medical tests, transport?||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the state government to clarify who will pay for medical screening as well as transportation of migrant workers who wish to return home. Via video-conference, Justice Suresh Gupte heard three PILs by NGOs and Sarva Hara Jan Andolan, a union, which highlighted the plight of migrants following the Covid-19 lockdown in Mumbai. The NGOs’ advocates, Kranti L C and Ronita Bector, submitted that following the Congress and the Centre’s announcements, as the state government is a coalition, it must bear all transportation costs of migrants, including by bus. On Monday, Congress had announced it will bear the expense of train tickets of migrants. The Central government had immediately said the railways will bear 85% of the ticket cost while the remaining 15% will be paid by the states. Justice Gupte said the Central and state governments must coordinate and inform the court at the next hearing on May 8 how this would be implemented. Kranti told the court migrant workers were incurring expenses to obtain medical certificates before they can return home and these should be borne by the state government. When asked by the judge who will pay for the medical screenings, the government advocate admitted that the policy was silent on this aspect and he would like to take instructions. The court directed the state to clarify the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-state-govt-who-will-pay-for-migrants-medical-tests-transport/articleshow/75564075.cms||Rosy Sequeira
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Record 79 Covid patients cured in city, discharged||Lucknow: Finally, there was some good news on the corona battlefront in Lucknow with a record 79 Covid-19 patients — highest in a single day so far — recovering and being discharged on Tuesday. Even more uplifting was the fact that the state capital now has more recovered Covid-19 patients than those undergoing treatment for the novel coronavirus infection. The leap in recovery figures on Tuesday took the total cured in Lucknow to 161, double of 80 still being treated in various hospitals. Of the 79 recovered patients, 33 were under treatment at Era’s Lucknow Medical College, 44 at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences and two at King George’s Medical University. Besides, as many as 45 discharged were from other districts and states even though they were counted in city’s list. They include 25 from Delhi, six each from Saharanpur and Jaipur and one each from Andaman, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh among others. The others who recovered belong to Lucknow, including 25 from Sadar, one each from Khargapur and Sarfarazganj and rest from other parts of the state capital. The staff nurse of a private hospital on Faizabad road was among those cured. The city residents were sent home in ambulance with advice to self isolate for 14 more days, while outsiders will remain in quarantine at SRM Institute of Engineering and Medical Sciences for two more weeks, said health officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/record-79-covid-patients-cured-in-city-discharged/articleshow/75565354.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna Lanka remains source of worry, 5 new cases detected||Vijayawada: Five of the eight new Covid-19 positive cases registered in Krishna district on Tuesday were reported from Krishna Lanka in Vijayawada city. With the new cases, the district tally went up to 286. Despite the measures taken by the district administration and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), the increasing number of cases from Krishna Lanka has become a matter of concern. City police have taken steps to ensure lockdown regulations in Krishna Lanka and other containment zones in the city are not violated. Health authorities in the city have shifted focus to containment and buffer zones. The new cases are contacts of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at government hospitals. Door-to-door family surveys have been conducted in Krishna Lanka and all primary contacts of Covid-19 patients have been identified, said health officials. “We absolutely need the support of the public to face this crisis. As long as people ignore social distancing, new Covid-19 cases will be reported in the city for a while. People should care for their family and stop roaming on the streets with silly reasons,” said Dr Ramesh, district medical and health officer (DMHO). Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said the administration is strictly implementing the lockdown and there has been no relaxation. “We have noticed that some people are coming on the streets after May 4 assuming that there are some relaxations. Vijayawada is completely declared as a red zone and there is no relaxation. We have divided the red zones across the district into 36 clusters, out of which 20 clusters are situated in Vijayawada city,” he said. Clusters which record cases in the last five days will be considered very active clusters. Clusters that recorded new cases between six to 14 days are termed active clusters. Areas that do not record new cases between 15 to 28 days are called dormant clusters. If no new case is reported after 28 days, the area will be declared a green zone, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-lanka-remains-source-of-worry-5-new-cases-detected/articleshow/75562700.cms||Venu Lanka
May 6, 2020||Surat||26 Covid-19 infections traced to two vegetable vendors||SURAT: The massive contact tracing of Covid-19 infections launched by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has revealed that 26 persons who tested positive were infected by two vegetable vendors. The drive was intensified after 26 positive cases surfaced from societies and apartments in Ashwini Kumar Road area in one week. SMC officials said the positive cases have been reported from Ataljinagar, Suryanagar, Vishalnagar, Modi Maholla, Ramnath Ovaro, Bhaktinagar, Rupali Society, Dhartinagar, Anandnagar Avash and Satyam Shivam Sundaram Apartment in Ashwini Kumar area in East zone (A) area. “In order to trace the source of infections, we carried out mass testing of 107 grocers, vegetable vendors and dairy product sellers. The results revealed that two vegetable vendors who were Covid-19 positive were regular visitors to these areas,’’ said an SMC official. “We believe that these people have been infected from vegetable vendors,’’ said sources. Moreover, the two vendors were asymptomatic. “Asymptomatic patients can spread more infections and therefore we urge citizen to wear masks and use sanitizers whenever they go to purchase essentials. If precautions are not taken, chances of getting infected are very high,’’ said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26-covid-19-infections-traced-to-two-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75562664.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||TSHRC asks T to help J&K students go home||Following a complaint from 260 stranded residents of J&K in the city, Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) has requested the state government to take appropriate steps to relocate the petitioners to their native place. “A significant number of students are girls and the majority of students are really young and thereby stressed out,” reads the letter addressed to TSHRC. Taking note of the complaint, the TSHRC has written to the chief secretary, Government of Telangana, as their stay has become risky in the present state, to ensure their safe return to J&K and report the outcome to the commission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tshrc-asks-t-to-help-jk-students-go-home/articleshow/75564891.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mysuru||Two poachers held for hunting monitor lizards||Mysuru: Forest officials in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary arrested two persons for poaching and seized the carcass of two monitor lizards which they allegedly hunted inside the forests on Sunday evening. The accused have been identified as Kumar (36) and Selvan (51), residents of Marikottayam village in Hanuru taluk in Chamarajanagar district. The duo had entered the forests at Gopinatham range under Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary on the pretext of grazing sheep, the foresters said. Leaving their sheep to graze near the forests, they illegally entered deep inside the forest along with their dogs and managed to catch two monitor lizards, they said. The forest staff, who were patrolling the Alambadi beat area, noticed the two walking near Hunase Marada Thopu with the lizards and arrested them. They were produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-poachers-held-for-hunting-monitor-lizards/articleshow/75562723.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 6, 2020||Indore||Indore: Delivery of putrid greens makes residents see red||INDORE: Civic body’s doorstep delivery of greens have apparently made Indoreans see red. Residents in various parts of city have started complaining of getting dry and putrid vegetables, hardly three days after Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) started delivery of seasonal vegetables in combo packets. Though home delivery of vegetable packets has drawn mixed response from citizens, people in some parts of city alleged mishandling on part of staff engaged in packaging and delivery work as major reasons behind the problem. “We had ordered vegetable combo pack and when we received our order, we found that many of the vegetables were dry and rotten. It seemed like they were kept in sunlight for a long time before they were packed and delivered,” said Rajendra Verma, a resident of Gulab Bagh. “We cannot even raise a complaint or ask for refund,” he said. The residents also complained about quantity and absence of green vegetables in combo packets. “I weighed the packet when it was delivered, and found that about 200gm vegetables less,” said Ramesh Gupta, a resident of Nano City. Devendra Totla, a resident of Annapurna, claimed that there were no green vegetables in the packet he received on Monday. “The combo packet had carrot, capsicum, tomato, green chili, ginger, lemon but there was no vegetable in it,” he said. “What am I supposed to do if they are not delivering vegetables?” he added. Distributors said that delay in orders and time taken in packaging works are the reasons behind the issues. “Though vegetables are delivered by afternoon, we get orders only after 10.00pm, and after this, workers are engaged in packaging work,” said Shakti Warhe, one of the distributors. Collector Manish Singh however said that the system will take time to get streamlined. “Efforts are on to address vegetable delivery related issues on basis of feedback received from citizens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/delivery-of-putrid-greens-makes-residents-see-red/articleshow/75564100.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Doctors booked as patients do not keep safe distance||VADODARA: Three doctors were booked for violation of public notification at Panigate police station as patients of their hospital near Suleimani Chawl failed to follow social distancing norms here on Tuesday. Cops said during patrolling in Suleimani Chawl area, a large crowd was witnessed at Faith Hospital and nobody was maintaining social distancing norms. Police went inside the hospital and questioned the doctors why they were not ensuring that patients followed guidelines for coronavirus pandemic. Dr Hasam Moiyuddin, Dr Mubarak Patel and Dr Mohammed Hussain Agarbattiwala could not give a satisfactory reply. “Being doctors, they should be more careful and ensure that people keep a distance from each other. But here no precautionary measures were being taken despite increasing number of cases in Panigate area. Thus, we registered an offence against the three doctors,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/docs-booked-as-patients-do-not-keep-safe-distance/articleshow/75561043.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||MSMEs to resume operations today||Trichy: The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in the fabrication and engineering sector have initiated preliminary arrangements to resume their operations from Wednesday. But the companies into Information Technology (IT) and Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) functioning at Trichy Elcot IT Park have decided to wait for a while to return to the workplace as they have plans to continue with the work from home option. From May 6 industries including those in the export business are planning to return to their work by following preventing measures as advised by the officials. It has been more than 40 days since the industrial sector stalled their operations owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Elcot IT Park sources said that the six companies occupying the 60,000 square feet IT Park space at Navalpattu is convenient with the work from home protocol for now. “Only after May 17, the IT and ITES companies may resume their full-fledged operations from the IT park,” an official with Elcot said. Meanwhile, MSMEs in engineering and fabrication sectors have planned to operate with 50% staff strength in multiple shifts. The district administration has said that the MSME employees can move within the district with the company ID cards or letter pads acknowledged by the MSME management. As the movement of inter-district employees such as those residing in neighbouring Thanjavur and Pudukkottai districts to Trichy district was cited as a constraint, Trichy district administration has assured to fetch a solution by coordinating with the neighbouring district administrations. “We will resume the operations to get over the idle environment and make progress in executing the work orders. Social distancing and other precautionary measures will be ensured while resuming the operations,” A R Syed Arif, past chairman, CII Trichy zone, said. MSMEs will screen the employees by checking body temperature with thermal scanners to allow them to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/msmes-to-resume-operations-today/articleshow/75564910.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||34 recover, discharged in Rayalaseema||Tirupati: In what comes as a relief to the Rayalaseema region, 34 Covid-19 patients who reported a complete recovery were discharged from hospitals in Chittoor, Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Tuesday. In Chittoor district, designated a red zone by the Union ministry of home affairs, 20 Covid-19 patients were discharged. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 14 cases, while the total number of positive cases reported in the district was 82. Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that of the 13,589 samples collected for Covid-19 screening, only 82 tested positive, while the test results of 868 samples are awaited. In Kurnool district, where 25 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, 12 patients who recovered were discharged from Covid hospitals in the district. The district tally stood at 516. Ten deaths have been reported in the district so far and a total of 126 patients have recovered and been discharged. State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy held a review meeting with officials of the district administration in Kurnool on Tuesday. In Kadapa district, two patients who recovered were discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/34-recover-discharged-in-rayalaseema/articleshow/75562740.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Surat||Two circulate insulting video against Gujarat CM, held||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths arrested two persons on Monday for alleged violation of lockdown order and for their negligent act that can spread the infection. The accused had made a video on their mobile phone insulting the political leaders and government officers. They later circulated the video on social media. Police arrested Mahesh alias Michael Vaghani, 36, and Dhaval Bharodiya, 25, both residents of Simada area in city and active members of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS). While Vaghani is seen passing the insulting comments, Bharodiya made the video on his mobile phone. Vaghani talks about the plight of migrant workers having to live without amenities including drinking water from outside the locked gates of a shelter home. The accused also insulted chief minister Vijay Rupani along with other leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-circulate-insulting-video-against-cm/articleshow/75562764.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur cops get innovative at liquor shops||GUNTUR: Novel thinking is way to handle the new challenges in the times of novel coronavirus, it seems. Police officials were initially clueless when tipplers thronged liquor shops on Monday after they were opened after a gap of 40 days. Within next few hours, Guntur rural district police came out with an umbrella solution to manage the crowds at liquor shops. Police directed people to carry an umbrella to maintain social distancing. They enforced it at all the liquor shops and didn’t allow those who didn’t have an umbrella. “The umbrella trick yielded good results as people were more disciplined in the queue lines on Tuesday,” said rural district SP Ch Vijaya Rao. In fact, tipplers too had liked the idea of carrying the umbrella as it had become very difficult for them to stand in queue for long hours in the scorching heat. “It served double purpose. Umbrella saved them heat and also prevented them going close to the next in the line,” said Vijaya Rao. The rule has been enforced at all liquor outlets across the district. In fact, enforcing the rule even in the markets including rythu bazaars will help maintain the social distancing in the crowded places.  Senior officials are reportedly contemplating replicating the rule at all market places as people have been seen jostling with each other and ignoring social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-cops-get-innovative-at-liquor-shops/articleshow/75562782.cms||Samdani MN
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon to get new Covid-19 facility, to get 160 beds||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) on Tuesday decided to increase 160 Covid-19 beds looking at the alarming number of cases in the district. Acting on a petition given by the former Malegaon central Congress MLA Aasif Shaikh Rashid, the civic administration has firmed up its plans to establish a new Covid health centre at the Haj House in Malegaon. District collector Suraj Mandhare on Monday along with MMC officials inspected the Haj House where the facility would come up. Shaikh said that the MMC has cleaned the entire Haj House including a school and a sprawling hall that are within the same premises. "On this entire campus there would be 100 beds, including 60 ICU beds. MMC is also making arrangements to provide oxygen to patients who need it," he told TOI. MMC officials said that work is being carried out on a war-footing at Haj House to make it ready for use within the next three-four days. "The Haj House has adequate toilets, proper ventilation, lights and adequate water," said MMC sources. According to Shaikh, who is the son of the Malegaon mayor Tahira Sheikh, there was a meeting between the mayor and MMC officials including the civic chief Dipak Kasar on Tuesday afternoon. "The mayor has given her nod to the civic administration's plan to take over at least 25-30 beds in two private hospitals of the city to treat Covid-19 patients. The formalities between MMC and the hospitals would be worked out soon," added Aasif Shaikh. At present, there are about 150 beds in two hospitals that MMC use to treat Covid-19 patients. Malegaon has witnessed an alarming number of cases in the past few days. So far 338 cases have been reported from the textile town with 13 of them have succumbed while 28 have recovered from infection. Shaikh said that the situation in Malegaon is gloomy as cases are constantly increasing. He appealed people to remain indoors that would help in curbing the spread of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-to-get-new-covid-19-facility-to-get-160-beds/articleshow/75562766.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||With libraries closed, elderly opt for book swapping||Mangaluru: The closure of parks, playgrounds and libraries has resulted in many elderly citizens and children being driven to their wits’ end to keep themselves occupied while forced to remain indoors. The closure of libraries has certainly left the elderly a miffed lot. Being deprived of access to libraries has prompted many to return to the time-tested system of swapping books with neighbours and friends. Even at 93, Erya Sulochana N Rai’s voracious appetite for books is not easily sated. A frequent visitor to her neighbourhood library in Mangaluru since 1955, the unprecedented situation has pushed her into nigh unbearable boredom. However, a saviour arrived in the form of her neighbour Preeti D, a homemaker, who having read through the books in her mother’s possession, decided to swap what she had with the ones Sulochana Rai did. “I borrow around eight books once a week. This was the first time in my life where I was deprived of anything to read, and I was very fortunate that Preeti took notice of my problems. Her mother and I share a passion for Kannada novels, and when Preeti suggested that the two of us swap books, I was delighted,” Sulochana told TOI. Preeti’s mother, a septuagenarian, was faced with a similar dilemma when the lockdown put an end to her regular visits to the government library. Her daughter’s suggestion has now put a new set of books for her to devour, and Preeti is busy expanding this network so that more people can spend the lockdown more meaningfully. Since they are not very well acquainted with technology, accessing and reading eBooks is not a feasible option for senior citizens. Archana Shivashankar, a bank employee and her 70-year-old mother Jayanthi, a retired government servant, are among those who have benefitted from the book-swapping exercise in Mangaluru. Archana said that she is hoping to get in touch with more people, and get her hands on as many books with the lockdown being extended. Ashok B, a retired Reserve Bank of India employee in Bengaluru, is among those not very comfortable with eBooks, and is eagerly awaiting the lifting of the lockdown so he can visit the neighbourhood library and pick up a hardcopy. Deputy director of City Central Library, Mangaluru Raghavendra KV said that, on average, around 80 senior citizens visited the library every day prior to the lockdown. “The government will take a call on reopening libraries,” said Raghavendra, adding that the department of public libraries had uploaded eBooks on the eSarvajanikaGranthalaya app. “Citizens can also access the eBooks on www.Karnatakadigitalpubliclibrary.org,” he said. Sumangala, who works at Babygudda Government Library in Mangaluru, admitted that senior citizens were among the most frequent visitors to the library. “Most of them prefer to read Kannada novels,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-libraries-closed-elderly-opt-for-book-swapping/articleshow/75562769.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Many were paid to stand in queues||Vijayawada: On the second day of the reopening of liquor outlets in Krishna district, long queues were seen outside wine shops. Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (APBCL) has opened wine shops after the state government granted permission. The government had initially increased the liquor price by 25 percent. Despite the cost, long queues were seen across the shops in Krishna district. Though wine shops in Vijayawada remained shut due to red zone restrictions, many rushed to nearby villages to buy liquor. A few people were seen employing others to wait in queue and get liquor. “We have lost our livelihood due to the lockdown. There is no work for us. So I have decided to stand in the queue and get alcohol for a landlord in my village,” said K Srinivasulu, a daily labourer from Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district, who was spotted waiting for alcohol at Hanuman junction. Many people had also fielded their daughters and wives in the liquor queues. “A similar thing happened during the demonetisation time. The poor have become a target for the rich. They are bribing the poor and making them stand in queues to buy alcohol. This happened because the government opened the wine shops despite the lockdown. The state government should immediately close wine shops if it is committed to fulfilling its promise on implementing ban on liquor,” said Ch Babu Rao, CPM state secretariat member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/many-were-paid-to-stand-in-queues/articleshow/75562808.cms||Venu Lanka
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||BJP MLA, ABVP against liquor sale; protest held in Mysuru||Dharwad/Hubballi/Mysuru: The government’s decision to resume the sale of liquor has come in for much criticism from various quarters, including a BJP MLA and a Sangh Parivar affiliate. Hubballi-Dharwad West legislator Arvind Bellad said the restriction should have continued till May 17. He said the ban on liquor had resulted in peace returning to the homes of the poor. “Many addicts had managed to live without liquor and were moving towards a healthy life, giving their earnings to the family. With the sale of liquor resuming, these people will return to bad habits,” Bellad said. He favoured a permanent ban on the sale and consumption of liquor in the country. The MLA said the government was getting a revenue of Rs 20,000 crore through the sale of liquor and doling out Rs 30,000 crore to the poor people through the social welfare department. “The beneficiaries of the government’s aid were spending the amount on liquor, which is undesirable,” Bellad said. Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student’s arm of the BJP, termed the government’ decision unfortunate and demanded that liquor stores be shut till the Covid-19 pandemic is eliminated. ABVP state secretary Prateek Mali said the decision to allow sale of alcohol and permit 900 new liquor outlets in the state would prove disastrous. He said the education sector has already been hit by the Covid-19 lockdown and permitting liquor business will cause damage to the students’ community. Mali urged the state to withdraw its decision immediately. Members of the All India Mahila Sanskritik Sanghathan (AIMSS) in Dharwad and Mysuru also opposed the government move. In Mysuru, members of the AIMSS and All India Democratic Youth Organisation staged a protest, demanding withdrawal of the government order. Maintaining social distancing, the protesters gathered near the DC’ office on Tuesday and said the government’s decision has pushed hundreds of poor families into suffering. The government order will affect the family members of alcoholics, they feared. The activists later submitted a memorandum to additional DC B R Poornima.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjp-mla-abvp-against-liquor-sale-protest-held-in-mysuru/articleshow/75562964.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Heath screening of police personnel in wedding lawn||Nashik: In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the textile town of Malegaon, the Nashik Rural police has begun health screening of police personnel, especially those who are posted on lockdown duty. Police have sought a wedding lawn in Malegaon for the purpose. A large number of police personnel and staff of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) are battling Covid-19 crisis with a few of them testing positive for the infection. Over the past few weeks, more than 60 police personnel and SRPF men deployed in Malegaon have contracted novel coronavirus infection. In a bid to ensure that the spread of Covid-19 does not spread among more policemen on duty, various steps are being taken by senior police officers, the screening at wedding lawn being the latest. Superintendent of police (Nashik Rural) Arti Singh said that Covid-19 threat looms large everywhere across Malegoan. Police personnel are performing their duties in containment zones where the chances of them contracting the infection are very high. However, to keep the morale of police personnel on duty high during such times, Singh herself has shifted to Malegaon and has been working from the containment zone for close to two weeks now. Singh has continuously been communicating with the on-duty police personnel inquiring about their health. She is also visiting the places where the SRPF personnel are given accommodation to ensure that they are provided with all the medical facilities, proper food, sanitization facilities, good beds, mosquito nets, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/heath-screening-of-police-personnel-in-wedding-lawn/articleshow/75562798.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man stuck in UP, wife works as domestic help||Ahmedabad: A bag made of jute sack, which she had stashed in her underarms, was Ashakumari Prajapati’s only asset that she wanted to carry to her native place in Etawah district where her husband was stuck for around one-and-a-half month. Ashakumari, 35, along with her 12-year-old son, residents of Amraiwadi, was waiting at Ahmedabad district collector office to get herself registered so that she could reach to her husband, Ishram. The only earning member of the family, Ishram, had gone to Etawah to attend the last rites of a family member, but got stuck there after lockdown was announced across country. To feed her son and herself, she began pleading to locals to get work and she finally ended up getting work as a domestic help in a residential society in Jogeshwari area near Amraiwadi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-stuck-in-up-wife-works-as-domestic-help/articleshow/75543056.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Surat||Police just failed to notice brewing trouble in Vareli||SURAT: The migrant workers’ uprising in Vareli raised serious questions against Surat district police’s preparedness to tackle violent situation, even as the nation entered the third phase of lockdown on May 4. Many accuse the department of failing to notice the brewing unrest among the workers, who were facing multiple issues, and snowballed into a massive rioting on Monday. Things came to pass when more than 20,000 workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had left Vareli in private vehicles during the past one week after getting permission from the local administration to go to their hometowns. However, they were sent back from the borders and not allowed to cross. While leaving the city, many of these workers had also vacated their rented rooms and so, when they were forced to return, the landlords refused to rent out the property back to them. The issue, however, was later resolved by the local leaders. Amid all this, now the owners of chawls are demanding rent from the jobless workers. In some cases, the community kitchen started by the NGOs to provide food to these workers in Vareli, have also stopped functioning as the workers started to leave leading to workers not having anything to eat for a day or two after returning. Density in worker colonies near industrial clusters of Surat district is much higher than migrant workers living in the city. Timely action would have prevented violence, many opine. Dhaniram Dubey, sarpanch of Vareli told TOI, “The workers were not allowed to cross Gujarat border and were allegedly thrashed by the police. They had to pay for the journey and are without jobs for over a month now and penniless. They were reasonably angry. Some anti-social elements took advantage of their plight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/police-just-failed-to-notice-brewing-trouble-in-vareli/articleshow/75562790.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Tipplers in Krishna district use bottles as placeholders||VIJAYAWADA: In a bizarre instance, almost fifty bottles queued up outside a liquor store instead of customers, at Kesarapalli village of Gannavaram mandal in Krishna district on Tuesday morning. According to Gannavaram cops who were guarding the store, a large number of customers first arrived even more punctual than the previous day at 9 am. The shops were scheduled to be opened only at 11 am. However, once the state government brought forth a new GO increasing the tax on liquor to 75%, the store continued to remain closed till 2 pm to upload the billing systems. Meanwhile, several customers remained resilient and kept the previous day’s liquor bottles at to reserve the place they were standing in the queue, as they took shelter under a shed. Finally, the bottles were moved aside at 1pm and customers spent anywhere between 30 minutes to one hour in line to purchase alcohol. Police said the wine shop witnessed its highest business on Tuesday as people from Vijayawada, Gannavaram town and other adjoining villages crowded the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tipplers-use-bottles-as-placeholders/articleshow/75562823.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Surat||Manpower crunch hits Bharuch units||SURAT/BHARUCH: If the industries located at Dahej, Vilayat, Ankleshwar, Panoli, Jhagadia and Palej GIDC estates of Bharuch had any hope of being up and running within the next few days, it has been dashed.They were granted permission by the authorities concerned to start production activities from April 25, but absence of workers put paid to resumption of full-fledged operation. The district administration has granted permission to more than 3,500 industries to start production. But it had also limited workforce to 33 per cent. You can’t scale up production capacity without having 75 per cent workforce in big projects, Dahej Industries Association secretary Sunil Bhatt said. Vilayat Industries Association vice-president Ashish Garg said, "Industries in operation and those under construction both are badly affected due to migration of workers to their hometowns from the district. Severe manpower crisis is very much visible here. Construction and commissioning activities of over 50 projects with investment of more than Rs5,000 crores in Bharuch are affected by the absence of workers. State government should do something about this.” Industries associations of Dahej, Vilayat, and Saykha have jointly sent a detailed representation to principal secretary, industries and mines department of the state government seeking support. “We have requested the government to not increase water or drainage cess charges and that it invest money for now on desalination plants and common effluent treatment plants. It can recover the cost later from the industries because currently they are facing a liquidity crunch,” Vilayat GIDC Industries Association president Mahesh Vashi said. Several projects are unable to start their activities due to lack of infrastructure. A common effluent treatment plant and water distribution pipeline at Saykha estate were commissioned recently and hence could not be utilized, Saykha Industries Association president Chandresh Devani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/manpower-crunch-hits-bharuch-units/articleshow/75562830.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi temple receives online donation of over Rs 2 crore||Nashik: Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, has received nearly Rs 2.54 crore in the form of online donation in the last 48 days. Chief executive officer Arun Dongre said that nothing can bar people from expressing their devotion towards their faith. “The government has imposed lockdown in the country but the devotees are still making donations for the temple through online transfer platforms. We have received donations of Rs 2,53,97,778 in last 48 days since lockdown,” he said. The temple is closed since March 17 after the district administration had instructed all the religious institutions to remain shut until further instructions. Although the temple services are closed, the devotees are being benefited by watching various programmes and live arti over dish TV and the temple’s mobile application. “We have our mobile application through which the devotees can be in continuous touch with us. Also, the devotees watch the live telecast on Tata Sky and our website. The outbreak of Covid-19 has forced us to stay indoors, but with the help of various online platforms, devotees are being benefited,” said Dongre. In last 48 days, nearly 35 lakh devotees have watched the temple’s programmes via Tata Sky while sitting at home. Over one lakh devotees have downloaded the mobile application. Also, nearly nine thousand devotees visit their website everyday, added Dongre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-temple-receives-online-donation-of-over-rs-2-crore/articleshow/75562826.cms||pragya jain
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Liquor shops to open in state from today||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday announced that the state cabinet has decided to permit sale of liquor through shops across the state irrespective of their zones — Red, Green and Orange. However, no permission will be given in containment clusters where 15 shops are located. Similarly, permission will not be given for bars and pubs. The government also took decision to hike the prices by 16% on the existing rates and 11% on cheap liquor brands. The CM said shops will be opened between 10am and 6pm. Owners will have to ensure physical distance is maintained at the shops. “If physical distance is not followed and buyers don’t wear masks at the shops, we will seal the shops,” he said. He said the state government was compelled to take decision on opening liquor shops as four neighbouring states, AP, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh have started liquor sales, and people from Telangana were going to those states to purchase the liquor, giving rise to smuggling. Even some people began manufacturing Gudumba (illicit liquor), he said. Meanwhile, excise police have taken up checking of all liquor shops in the state. They have compared the present stocks and records with those available on March 22. The drive was conducted to know if black marketing of liquor was done. There were allegations that stock was emptied in some shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-shops-to-open-in-state-from-today/articleshow/75564941.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Trading in Byadagi chilli market poses threat to Covid-free district||Haveri: Haveri district is in the green zone. The administration has strictly blocked border areas, restricting movement of vehicles and people. However, entry of trucks coming to Byadagi red chilli market to carry out trade is proving to be a threat, say locals, who have appealed to the authorities to strictly prohibit trade for some more days. Chilli growers and traders from Ballari, Gadag, Dharwad and other districts of Karnataka and also from Andhra Pradesh come to Byadagi to sell their produce in one of Asia’s biggest chilli markets. Since these places are either in red or orange zones, MLA Verupakshappa Ballari has requested the district administration to ban the entry of trucks from other places to Byadagi chilli market. According to sources, a driver of one such trucks had home-quarantine stamp on his hand. Yet he was roaming freely in the chilli market. All social distancing norms are thrown to wind in the market, said sources, adding that the authorities have not been conducting health check-up for farmers, traders and drivers. This being the chilli season, trading is brisk on Mondays and Thursdays. Trucks enter Byadagi carrying thousands of tonnes of chillies. “I have requested the district administration to ban the entry of trucks from other districts and from outside the state,” said MLA Verupakshappa Ballari. People allege that trading has been going on unabated despite a ban order deputy commissioner. “I have issued strict instructions to stop trading activities in Byadagi chilli market. However, if trading is going on despite ban orders, I will look into it. Meanwhile, labourers are engaged in removing chilli stalks and the activity is going on smoothly. The workers are following social distancing norms. We are taking every measure to ensure Haveri district continues to be in the green zone,” clarified deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai. Shivanand Mallanagoudar, commission agent in the Byadagi chilli market, said that all agents and buyers and have been informed not to bring chilli to the Byadagi market till the lockdown is lifted. CAPTION Workers at the Byadagi chilli market adopt safety measures like the use of hand santisers and social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/trading-in-byadagi-chilli-market-poses-threat-to-covid-free-district/articleshow/75562822.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||With Lockdown 3.0, testing in U’khand down by 50% although +ve cases continue||Dehradun: Even as the number of tests being done is picking pace in several states across the country, the Uttarakhand health department has considerably reduced the testing in the past one week. 347 samples were tested on April 29, followed by 553 and 409 on April 30 and May 1 respectively. However, on May 2, the testing went down to 240 samples which further reduced to 201, 148 and 230 samples on May 3, 4 and 5 respectively. City-based activist Anoop Nautiyal, who is closely monitoring Covid-19 related developments in the state told TOI that as per the data provided in the regular bulletins by the health department, the number of tests has reduced by almost 50% in past four days.  "If we take out an average of tests done between April 28 to May 1, the outcome is 403 tests per day. The average of tests done between May 02 and May 05 is 205, just half of the earlier four days. Even if we see the number of samples tested in Uttarakhand weeks prior to April 28, not even a single day was there when less than 250 samples were tested," Nautiyal said. He added that with the government giving relaxations in lockdown and migrants returning, the situation will be very difficult for the health department to handle if testing was not ramped up. Interestingly, the testing has decreased even though two more labs started testing in Uttarakhand in the past fortnight. Not just the samples tested, even the number of samples being collected for testing has reduced in the past 10 days while the number of positive cases are rising. To recall, the state has registered three Covid-19-positive cases in the past four days. Commenting on the decline in testing, additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said, "The number of samples sent for testing goes down during the weekend as OPDs in hospitals remain closed which is also one of our primary source of information about Covid-19 patients. Also, one more reason for less testing in the past couple of days is that we had to shut the lab at Doon Hospital because of misplacement of a sample due to which the lab had to be sanitised.” He added that keeping in view the relaxation in lockdown, the rate of both sample collection and testing will pick up pace in the days to come. Meanwhile, with seven cases of Covid-19 reported from AIIMS Rishikesh in the past 10 days, the premier institute has turned into an epicentre of coronavirus outbreak in Uttarakhand. Over 200 doctors and other healthcare workers are under quarantine within the institution, as per health officials. Commenting on the matter, Pant told TOI that AIIMS Rishikesh has been asked to strictly follow the ‘infection prevention guidelines’ of the central government to prevent further outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-lockdown-3-0-testing-in-ukhand-down-by-50-although-ve-cases-continue/articleshow/75562838.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown helps rly take up long-pending track works||Trichy: Utilizing the lockdown period, long pending track maintenance works in the Trichy railway division have commenced. Several minor works which have been ignored by the department owing to frequent movement of trains are being fixed for smooth running of trains, officials said. Although the railway department incurred loss due to suspension of passenger and express trains during the lockdown, it has come as a relief for authorities to execute it without any interruption. Railway authorities have undertaken various works to improve safety and operational efficiency of trains, officials said.Welding, rail renewal works, packing of ballast and clearing overgrowth are the works undertaken across the Trichy railway division by maintaining proper social distancing. The process of detecting minute track defects is also being carried out which will help reduce shaking or jerking during train operation. “Each and every inch of the track is being examined and would pave way for safe and efficient operation of trains, officials said. Examination and replacement of rails at level crossings would be done periodically. “To execute any work at the level crossings, permission from the district administration and traffic police is required to stop vehicular traffic across the railway gate. Over a period of time, the tracks have been buried due to vehicular traffic. That should be relayed properly. That process is also possible without closing the level crossing,” officials said. Meanwhile, to take up special works, authorities from the engineering department have sought permission from the district collector. Once they get the nod, they would begin work within a few days, an official from Trichy railway division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-helps-rly-take-up-long-pending-track-works/articleshow/75564932.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik library asks state to open services||Nashik: The Samuhik Vachanalaya Nashik (SaVaNa) has written to the higher and technical education minister Uday Samant to allow them to open the services of the library for the masses. They are seeking permission as individual shops are now permitted to open in non-containment zones. The library has written to the minister after receiving a letter from the Directorate of Libraries, Maharashtra that the closure of all-state libraries to be continued till May 17 as the government has extended the lockdown till then. Shrikant Beni, executive member said that the state has ordered the liquor shops to operate from May 3. “We received the orders that we have to keep the shutters of the library down. This is unfortunate for us. Also, as the standalone shops are permitted to be operational, we request the ministry to let us open our services also.” Beni has also written a similar letter to the director of state libraries in Mumbai which states that the services to start with minimum staff, resume the services of issue, and return of the books. There are about 1,80,000 books in Sa Va Na||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-library-asks-state-to-open-services/articleshow/75562852.cms||pragya jain
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||No relaxations for shops in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the Karimnagar has turned into a role model for containment zones at a time when the country was unaware of the concept of these zones. Speaking at press press conference on Tuesday, CM said that since 66 % of total cases are from Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Vikarabad, no relaxations would be given for shops in Hyderabad. Decision on further relaxations will be taken at the special meeting held on May 15. He said the total number of cases touched 1,096 with new 11 cases on Tuesday and 43 persons were discharged. “As on today, 628 patients have been discharged and 439 active cases are being treated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-relaxations-for-shops-in-hyd/articleshow/75564954.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||NMC to vacate old wadas with police help||Nashik: The civic administration has asked the owners and tenants living in old and dilapidated wadas in the city to vacate the structures before the monsoon season sets in. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) issued a public notice to this effect on Tuesday. It has also warned that civic officials would be forced to vacate the wadas with the help of the police if the owners don’t do the needful on their own. Last year, more than a dozen wadas had collapsed during monsoon. The civic body had warned the occupants to vacate the wadas but the plea fell on deaf ears. An official from the civic administration said, “We have already served several notices in the last one year asking owners of old wadas to vacate the structures but they did not. Some tenants staying in the wadas have dispute with the owners.” “We have decided to vacate the old and dilapidated wadas for the safety of residents and avoid any untoward incident in the future,” said the official. There are over 650 old wadas spread across the six divisions of municipal corportation—Nashik East, Nashik West, Satpur, Cidco, Nashik Road and Panchavati. Half of the old wadas are in Panchavati, Nashik East and Nashik West divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-vacate-old-wadas-with-police-help/articleshow/75562875.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Postponement of NEET, JEE main a boon for freshers||TRICHY: The postponement of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and JEE main this year due to Covid-19 outbreak has come a blessing in disguise for state board students as they will get more time to prepare for the examinations. This will benefit freshers who have completed Class XII this year, as many of them have started preparations only after the board examination. On Tuesday, MHRD announced that JEE mains will be conducted between July 18 and 23, and NEET on July 26. Usually, the examinations are held in April and May. For many students who are yet to start preparations, the 10-week additional time is a boon if utilised properly, said R Venkatesh from Seekers Educational Services, Trichy. While coaching centres are not conducting classes owing to the lockdown, those attending online classes are benefiting, he said. S Ranjani, an aspirant from Thillai Nagar and a student of the state board Class XII, said that she anticipated the postponement and started preparation as soon as the examinations ended. “Now, we got some more weeks. I believe that I can crack the exam without waiting for another year,” she said. However, she also feels that the competition may be tougher this time as repeaters from state board too will get more time. S Sethuram of Nivedita Career Academy in Thillai Nagar is anticipating another revision of dates given the increasing number of Covid-19 cases across the country. “We have intensified our online classes, which is saving the travel time for aspirants,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/postponement-of-neet-jee-main-a-boon-for-freshers/articleshow/75564938.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Private schools adopt novel ways to collect fees from parents||TRICHY: While no decision has been made on reopening of educational institutions yet by the school education department, some of the city schools have resorted to novel ways of collecting fee for ensuing academic year. A private school in KK Nagar is sending SMS to the parents thanking those who have volunteered to pay the fee for the ensuing academic year. However, the message was also sent to parents, who were yet to pay as they were expecting postponement of fee collection considering Covid-19 outbreak. On Tuesday, parents started receiving calls from the school detailing them on the fee amount for this academic year and the modes to pay at the earliest. Few schools, however, have offered to accept the payment of the fee in three instalments. “While my husband received only half the salary for April, reminders for the payment of school fee is indeed painful especially when the government is yet to make any announcement on reopening schools,” said S Jayanthi, a parent from KK Nagar. Meanwhile, the schools have tried to justify their move saying that fee collection is inevitable. Principal of one of such school said that only the parents, who can pay the fee have been asked to pay. Further, they said that they rely on the money collected as fees from children to pay teachers. The principal said that they allow parents to pay the fee in three instalments and added that many parents are yet to pay even last year’s fee which amounts to Rs 8 lakh. If we don’t collect the fee, parents may pull out children from our school and get them admitted to other schools for next academic year, said the principal. There was an instruction from the school education department asking schools not to collect fee during this lockdown period. While the lockdown is extended till May 17, which may be extended if Covid-19 cases increase, the school education department had also asked private schools to give full salary to their teachers for the month of April. “This has left many private schools in a Catch-22 situation especially those who solely depend on school fee collected from parents to disburse salary of teachers,” said a senior official from Trichy district chief education office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-schools-adopt-novel-ways-to-collect-fees-from-parents/articleshow/75564951.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1,250 migrants say bye, more to leave today||HYDERABAD: The second special train for migrants from Telangana took 1,250 workers from Bihar to their home state on Tuesday. Government officials have maintained secrecy about the entire operation to ensure that there will not be a stampede like situation at the railway station. More special trains are scheduled to leave from different railway stations located on the city outskirts early on Wednesday. Ghatkesar police of Rachakonda commissionerate were informed about the special train leaving from the railway station on Monday night. Meanwhile, cops of different police station in the city including police of Afzulgunj, Chaderghat, Asif Nagar, Narsingi, Madhapur, Begumpet, Jubuilee Hills, Bollarum and Tukaramgate, have alerted the migrant workers of Bihar who enrolled with them to go to their native state on Monday morning. RTC buses have been arranged to pick up the workers from each area and 46 special buses reached Ghatkesar railway station after midnight with the migrant workers from Bihar. Health check ups were conducted for all the migrant workers. “Masks, packaged food and water were provided to each migrant worker. The workers are mainly from construction, pharma and hospitality sectors, ” said a Ghatkesar police official. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat along with Medchal collector Venkateshwarulu, IAS officers Ronald Rose and Rajat Saini flagged off the special train to Khagaria in Bihar. Meanwhile, 120 workers from Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand who were working at two PSUs in Ramagundam have left in two special buses to their states on Tuesday morning. “The workers who wanted to return to their native places, made their own arrangements and police have issued them passes,” Ramagundam MLA K Chandar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-train-takes-them-to-bihar/articleshow/75564157.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Eyebrows raised as ration cardholders get message claiming 45 kg rice distributed||THANJAVUR: A message from the ration shops to the people of a village in Thanjavur on Tuesday, falsely reflects more amount of rice given to the beneficiaries instead of the actual amount distributed to them. This has led to villagers doubting if they would receive June’s quota of the essentials. Around 230 cardholders residing at Puliyakkudi village near Papanasam taluk in Thanjavur district received similar messages after they got free rice as announced by the government during the lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak. The cardholders had received 20 kg of rice and also dal and sugar, on May 4, from the ration shop functioning in the village, which comes under the primary agriculture credit cooperative society (Z-174) in Papanasam taluk. Following this, they received a message on their mobile phones about their procurement. “As usual we received message for getting rice, sugar and dal from the ration shop. However, it mentioned that we received 45 kg rice while I received the routine 20 kg. Everyone in our village, who got the essentials from the shop, received a similar message with a different amount of rice that is more than 20 kg,” R Senthil Kumar, a resident of the village told TOI. When they approached the ration shop, they did not get a proper reply, he alleged. Then, the villagers took the issue to the officials concerned, he added. Villagers raised apprehensions whether the excess rice mentioned in the message would be deducted from the next month's quota. “Already villagers are struggling to make both ends meet during this lockdown as there is no income. If the excess rice mentioned in the message would be deducted from June’s quota, people will have no option but to starve,” Senthil Kumar added. This kind of practice is prevalent in many ration shops in the district, alleged secretary of Thanjavur district Cauvery farmers’ protection association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan."Similar problem arose at Patteeswaram ration shop a few months ago in the distribution of kerosene to cardholders. Such practices should be curbed,” he added. When contacted, M Ekambaram, joint registrar of cooperative department, Thanjavur told TOI that there was no chance for such kind of misappropriation. “It must be because of device error and that would be set right immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eyebrows-raised-as-ration-cardholders-get-message-claiming-45-kg-rice-distributed/articleshow/75564957.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Pilgrims stuck in Raj seek help||Warangal: Nearly 80 pilgrims from Warangal stranded in Kolar tahsil of Rajasthan for the past 50 days are not receiving medical care. According to pilgrim head Ramesh, the group had travelled to Rajasthan to attend a jatara. Many of them suffer from high blood pressure, thyroid issues and diabetics and are running out of medicines, he said. After the incident came to light on Twitter, Warangal Urban district collector Rajiv Gandhi Hanumanthu is making efforts to bring the pilgrims home- Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pilgrims-stuck-in-raj-seek-help/articleshow/75564962.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||No plans ready yet as Telangana workers set to return from Gulf, four nations||HYDERABAD: With 1,750 Telangana workers set to return home from the Gulf region and other countries in the first batch from May 7 over a period of seven days, the state government’s bigger worry now is how to rehabilitate them, conduct Covid-19 tests and provide quarantine facilities for them. Unlike the Kerala government which has already put in place a system on how to test the workers once they return from Gulf, quarantine them and also rehabilitate them, the Telangana government is yet to make any concrete plans. While the preliminary testing at the port of entry with thermal scanning will happen, a major issue is on how they would be tested and where they would be quarantined. “Since the workers are returning over a period of time, the Covid-19 protocols can be followed, including home quarantine,” an official said. “Quarantine can be done in engineering colleges or schools which can be converted for the purpose as it has already been done in some districts now apart from hospitals,” the official said. The government of India is operating seven special flights to Telangana and bringing back the workers from Kuwait, the UAE, the US, the UK, the Philippines and Malaysia, beginning this Thursday. In recent days, the Telangana government had deliberated on the issue of providing the returning migrant workers with employment. The matter has been discussed with some industries to accommodate them, sources said. The workers will also be given training at the National Academy of Construction for engaging them in construction activity, sources added. But, neither the government nor the Indian embassies have a clue on the total number of workers willing to return. “We do not have the figures of those who want to return because the process of data collection is still on in the embassies. Workers who are inclined to return are registering on the websites. It does not mean that everyone who is in the Gulf wants to return,” said a senior official of the Telangana Overseas Manpower Development Company Limited. Figures till May 2 show that 1.5 lakh Indian nationals in the UAE had registered their names to return. There are 35 lakh Indians in the UAE alone, including 10 lakh Malayalees. According to sources, the International Labour Organisation and the ministry of external affairs held an online meeting with the Protector General of Emigrants, who is the protector of emigrants, and also private and government recruiting agencies who send workers abroad. In the meeting held on April 29, views were elicited from them on how many are likely to return and for what reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-plans-ready-yet-as-t-workers-set-to-return-from-gulf-4-nations/articleshow/75564168.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Liquor shops likely to open soon||Nashiik: Guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has directed the district administration to issue fresh order for allowing sale of alcohol in Nashik. Speaking to TOI, Bhujbal, who is also the minister for food and civil supplies, said a delegation of alcohol shop owners met and urged him to allow sale of liquor in the district. Accordingly, he has directed the district administration to issue fresh order for allowing sale of liquor in the district. "I have also given instructions to the liquor shop owners to adhere to the norms of social distancing," Bhujbal said. When contacted, office-bearers of Nashik district liquor shops owners association said there was rush of people in the morning on Monday outside alcohol shops, but the district administration delayed the issuance of order. "By the time we received it was 2.30pm. There would have been no rush if the order was issued in the morning. We met the district guardian minister and urged him to allow sale of liquor in the district," an office-bearer of the association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/liquor-shops-likely-to-open-soon/articleshow/75562902.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Second special train leaves for UP with migrants from around Vadodara||VADODARA: Since the nationwide lockdown was declared in March, Divya Patel, a PhD student at the M S University, was stuck at the girls hostel campus of the university. On Monday midnight, she got a chance to return to Varanasi, her hometown in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Like many other, Patel, too boarded the shramik special train, a second such train to depart from Vadodara with 1,251 migrants from UP. The second batch of migrants are from Vadodara and three neighbouring districts of Dahod, Narmada and Chhota Udepur. Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal was assigned the task to coordinate with collectors of the three neighbouring districts for return journey of the migrants. The train is carrying 655 migrants from Chhota Udepur, 314 from Dahod, 70 from Narmada and 212 from Vadodara district. “I work with a Bharuch-based company. I reached Vadodara in a bus,” said Ramesh Tyagi. Another migrant worker Ramashankar Kashyap from Chhota Udepur too travelled to Vadodara in a bus. The Vadodara district administration had coordinated for 48 buses that brought migrants and students like Patel to the Vadodara railway station. All the passengers first bunderwent the mandatory screening through thermal guns and medical check-up before they boarded the train following social distancing norms. Agrawal has also coordinated for a third train to Lucknow, UP and is expected to carry 1,200 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/second-special-train-leaves-for-up-with-migrants-from-around-vadodara/articleshow/75561094.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ‘Gulf-returnees can be groomed to take up role of entrepreneurs’||HYDERABAD: Gulf workers who return home should not be seen as a burden by the government, but considered assets in building the nation. They could also be groomed to set up their own businesses and generate employment opportunities, claim associations and individuals, working for the welfare of workers in the oil-rich nations. So far, the Telangana government has not come up with an NRI policy, which the organisations have been demanding for several years now. “Gulf workers should not be treated as beggars. Their importance should be realised. Those who return should be considered as ‘skill gain’ and ‘brain gain’ by the state,” Emigrants’ Welfare Forum president Mandha Bheem Reddy. This is exactly the skill that workers from Nizamabad who are in Kuwait and want to return say should be utilised by the government. “The workers have acquired skills that are of international standards in the areas that they have worked,” pointed out Gangula Muralidhar Reddy, a social worker in Kuwait. The Nizamabad collector has been given a letter with names of workers who want to return in the wake of Covid-19. Those who have been involved in the welfare of Telangana Gulf workers said it should also not been taken for granted that the returning workers are only looking to be employed. “There are many who have slogged and have made money. They should be assisted in setting up industries so that they hire many workers,” a social worker said. For instance, Mulkanoor Cooperative Credit and Marketing Society was founded by Aligireddy Kasi Viswanatha Reddy of Mulkanoor village in then Karimnagar district in 1956. The society was formed with 373 members and the community of farmers went on to engage in various activities. They disbursed loans to raise crops, started selling electric pumpsets, constructed godowns, introduced hybrid maize, built a shopping complex, started a petrol pump and purchased lorries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulf-returnees-can-be-groomed-to-take-up-role-of-entrepreneurs/articleshow/75564172.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Spike in cases with untraceable source of infection a concern||Coimbatore: Tracing the source of infection seems to have hit a roadblock in many Covid-19 cases in the district, which has, of late, been seeing a spike in such cases. Presently, there are eight patients, whose source of infection is not clear. Earlier, there were just two such cases.Public health experts say this can’t be considered a sign of community spread or transmission, going by the World Health Organization’s definition of the same. According to them, patients are not revealing the history of their travel and movements honestly, making it difficult to trace their source of infection.In the present circumstances, epidemiologists say, the strategy should be to protect the vulnerable.The number of untraceable cases in the district had risen to eight on Monday, from two in mid-April. The new cases comprise the family of three from KK Pudur, 31-year-old pregnant women from Karumbukadai and the 44-year-old cancer patient, who died in Chennai. The other two cases with unknown source of infection are the five-year-old boy from Kinathukidavu and the pregnant woman from Vettaikaranpudur.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “All their immediate family members, neighbours and the contacts they have revealed so far have tested negative. While checking the possibility that the cancer patient might have contracted the virus in hospital, all the 74 staff and a few patients in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he was admitted, have tested negative.”Officials, however, say none of the above cases could be considered untraceable. A senior corporation official, who didn’t want to be identified, says, “The pregnant woman from Karumbukadai has frequented her mother’s house in Podanur, which is a containment zone with almost 30 positive patients, four of who are police officers.”The deputy director of public health, meanwhile, says in the case of the three-member family, the businessman had visited Madukkarai, besides roaming around KK Pudur, which was a containment zone. “While they say they had returned from Kerala just a month ago, their statements sometimes contradict. There are chances that they might have come at later date.”The deceased cancer patient is also from Kavundampalayam, another containment zone. However, none of the patients are from the same street or the immediate neighbouring ones from where positive cases were reported in the past.Dr Mariappan Thiruppathi, former scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research, says every patient’s infection has to have a source. “Most patients do not reveal their movement history properly intentionally or unintentionally, because they have to recollect everything they did in the past two weeks. They may have visited their parent’s house, where there was a package left by the latter’s friends or neighbour. The patient may have touched that first and moved that. If that friend or neighbour was a carrier, they can get infected.”Public health experts say finding the source is crucial to slowing down the spread of the contagion. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says, “Finding a source when the spread is limited is important, because we can isolate them, trace their movements and quarantine their contacts to slow down the spread.”Epidemiologists, meanwhile, say it is better to start protecting the vulnerable. “A community spread or transmission of this kind of virus is often inevitable. The solution is to protect the vulnerable, keep them indoors and hope that whoever they come into contact with are immune to the virus,” says Dr Kulandaisamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spike-in-cases-with-untraceable-source-of-infection-a-concern/articleshow/75564190.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Kailash Mansarovar Yatra uncertain this year, state doesn't have Centre's nod yet||Pithoragarh: The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, which usually starts in the second week of June through the Lipulekh Pass of Uttarakhand, is shrouded in uncertainty this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Officials of Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), the nodal agency for the yatra in the state, said they have not had any intimation yet to start preparations for the pilgrimage from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), which conducts the yatra. “Preparations for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra start as early as February. We are waiting for a go-ahead from the MEA, after which we will start our preparations,” said Rahul Meena, the managing director of KMVN. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande, who is also the nodal officer for the Kailash Mansarovar pilgrimage in the state, also reiterated, “The district administration hasn’t received any information from the MEA to start preparations for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra.” Several departments contribute to the yatra, including Uttarakhnd Police, Indo Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Jal Nigam and the Public Works Department (PWD). Usually, the yatra involves 1,000 pilgrims undertaking the pilgrimage in 18 batches. The KMVN sets up six camps for the pilgrimage in places like Bundi, Gunji, Kalapani and Nabidang. This year, none of these preparations have been done. The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra through Lipulekh Pass started in 1981. It has been interrupted only two times since, during the 1998 Malpa landslide and the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods. The pilgrimage is instrumental is boosting the area’s tourism economy. Last year, KMVN earned around Rs 4 crore revenue from the yatra, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kailash-mansarovar-yatra-uncertain-this-year-state-doesnt-have-centres-nod-yet/articleshow/75561495.cms||Prem Punetha
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Meerut to have two wholesale vegetable markets after closure of Naveen Sabzi Mandi||MEERUT: The city administration has marked two areas, Kankerkhera and Jagriti Vihar, where wholesale vegetable markets will come up after being relocated from Naveen Sabzi Mandi, which was shut on Monday. As many as 24 traders and their contacts were tested positive in Naveen wholesale market, leading to its closure. Vendors of both the mandis will be issued different set of coloured passes to check overcrowding. And only fruit sellers and grocery shops will be allowed in Naveen wholesale market once it opens after two days. “Naveen Sabzi Mandi will be shifted to LIC Ground in Kankerkhera and in Jagriti Vihar areas. It should be ensured that social distancing is followed strictly there. Colour coding should be done for each mandi and passes of separate colours should be issued to vendors for different mandis,” Anita C Meshram, Meerut divisional commissioner, said in an order. Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra had asked SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh to inspect the locations before shifting the mandis. Narendra Singh, secretary of Naveen wholesale market union, said, “An inspection of the new spots has been done and arrangements, whatever needed, are being made for the relocation.” The decision comes a day after 24 people from Naveen Sabzi Mandi tested positive, sending shockwaves in the area as this might increase the chain of Covid-19 cases further in the city. Expressing concerns about the rising cases in Sabzi Mandi, doctors on Monday have said that residents should exercise caution while purchasing vegetables. “One should take the vegetables in a bucket or a bag with zero contact with the seller. Then keep it in warm water with disinfectants like vinegar for at least an hour. After this, vegetables should be washed thoroughly at least twice before consumption,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut’s district surveillance officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/city-to-have-2-wholesale-vegetable-markets-after-closure-of-naveen-sabzi-mandi/articleshow/75562926.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Can use bank interest to help the needy, says Darul Uloom||Muzaffarnagar: Country’s most influential Islamic seminary, Darul Uloom, Deoband has permitted use of bank interest to extend help to the needy amid Covid-19 pandemic. The fatwa (edict) from Deoband, a proponent of conservative school of thought in Islam, is being seen as a progressive step. ‘Riba’ or interest earned by depositing or lending money is not considered good in the Islamic tenets, and in most sections it is considered ‘haraam’ (forbidden). The fatwa was issued by the seminary on a question asked by a Karnataka resident, Mohammad Usman. The query read, “There is enough money from the interest in the bank account of our area’s mosque. And at present, many poor are suffering because of lockdown and they have no ration in their homes. In such a situation, can the needy persons be helped with this money?” The reply was quick. A panel of clerics at the fatwa department of Darul Uloom, which included Mufti-e-Azam Habiburrahman Azmi, Mufti Mehmood Bulandshahri, and Mufti Zainul Islam, gave go-ahead to use the interest money for the poor. “According to Islamic laws, the interest given by banks is ‘haraam’ (prohibited), it cannot be used. But the interest money can be given to the poor and disabled without any intention of sawab (reward). So if bank account of the mosque has such interest money and its management wants to give it to poor and needy people or wants to buy ration for them during the lockdown, there is nothing wrong in it,” the answer read. Several Muslim scholars and prominent people of the community have welcomed the advisory, which they said will guide and inspire many. Islamic scholar Mufti Yaad Ilahi Qasmi said, “It is a good fatwa at a time when we are facing a pandemic. Many needy people will benefit from it.” Muzaffarnagar-based lawyer Aasad Zama also hailed the move. “We used to hear from our elders that bank interest is prohibited. And also that it cannot be used even to help the poor. But the fatwa has made it clear that bank interest can be used to help needy. A big section of Muslims don’t use this interest money and it remains idle in their account. Now, it can be used.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/can-use-bank-interest-to-help-the-needy-says-darul-uloom/articleshow/75562934.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Migrant labourers sent in buses||HUBBALLI: Over 400 migrant labourers left to their destinations including Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Vijayapura, Yellapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Hassan and Bagalkot by 14 NWKRTC buses from the new bus stand here on Tuesday. Meanwhile a bus ferried about 30 passengers to Basavakalyan in Bidar district from Dharwad bus Stand. As many as 50 passengers arrived in Hubballi by two buses from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/migrant-labourers-sent-in-buses/articleshow/75562910.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Forensic report nails Andhra ex-SEC’s assistant secretary||HYDERABAD: Former AP State Election Commission (SEC) chief Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s assistant secretary Samba Murthy was behind the mysterious letter written to the Union ministry of home affairs, the cyber forensic report of AP State Forensic Science Laboratory said. It also said the letter was not drafted in the APSEC office. A copy of the forensic report (which is in possession of TOI) revealed there was no transfer of the letter on WhatsApp from the then SEC, Ramesh, to Murthy. The AP CID has a criminal case against Murthy. CID said the SEC assistant secretary gave a false statement to police and tampered with the hardware. The FSL report revealed that there was no WhatsApp communication between Murthy and Ramesh. It found that a pen drive with a pre-loaded document was accessed on the laptop. CID is investigating as to where the letter could have been drafted. The issue started on March 15, when Ramesh postponed local body elections citing Covid-19 situation. The state government approached Supreme Court two days later. On March 18, the apex court upheld the decision of the then SEC postponing the election. On the same day, a letter was sent to the Union home secretary purportedly by Ramesh, seeking protection and requesting central forces’ deployment. YSRC MP V Vijaya Sai Reddy filed a complaint, alleging the letter was drafted by the opposition Telugu Desam leaders and not by SEC’s office. When CID grilled Murthy said he typed the manuscript provided by Ramesh in the laptop and copied it into pen drive. .The FSL report revealed that on March 18 no letter was typed in the laptop and no documents were scanned.When contacted, Ramesh was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forensic-report-nails-andhra-ex-secs-assistant-secretary/articleshow/75564972.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Man who supplied sanitizers, masks to cops among infected||Meerut: A 24-year-old man, who supplied masks and sanitizers to UP police, was among 24 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on late Monday night, sending shockwaves in the department. A BJP councilor’s younger brother and PL Sharma district hospital’s cleanliness supervisor were also among those found infected, raising concerns of a larger number of contacts and leaving a big trail for the health department to trace. These cases belong to Prahlad Nagar, Sheesh Mahal (Lala Ka Bazaar) and PL Sharma hospital. The 24-year-old man had tested positive at a private facility after he got his check-up done at a private hospital. His father said, “It started with normal cold, but later his sense of smell and taste got affected. That is when I showed him to a doctor. He was then admitted at LLRM Medical College.” The family has a business of supplying equipment, like handcuffs and others to the UP police. However, when the pandemic struck, they shifted to manufacturing sanitizers, masks and other Covid-19 essentials and started supplying them to police in various districts, his father confirmed. They had supplied sanitizers and masks to Meerut police a month ago. Hori Lal Singh, designated for purchases at Police Lines, said, “We had purchased some sanitizers a month ago. However, later, when our rates did not match, we stopped purchasing from them.” Meanwhile, three of his contacts have been quarantined including the doctor. While the BJP councilor’s younger brother from Sheesh Mahal also tested positive, soon after which the area was made a hotspot. The six new hotspots include: Era Garden (Saraswati Lok) in Brahmpuri, Pushp Vihar (TP Nagar), Sheesh Mahal (Kotwali), Narangpur village (Rohta), Putha village (TP Nagar) and Prahlad Nagar (Lisari Gate).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-who-supplied-sanitizers-masks-to-cops-among-infected/articleshow/75562916.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||40 trains to transport workers promised, only one ran from Telangana||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had, on Monday, announced that 40 trains would be operated daily from Tuesday to send migrant workers to their home states. He even spoke to SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya over phone to arrange trains. But on Tuesday, only two trains departed from the South Central Railway (SCR) zone in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Telangana is yet to finish the registration of workers and provide SCR a list of trains required. On Tuesday, a train with 1,250 migrant workers left from Ghatkesar station to Khagaria junction in Bihar at 3.05am. Another train carrying 1,212 workers left for Chandrapur in Maharashtra from Rayanapadu near Vijayawada in AP at 3am. SCR sources reveal the nodal officers and Telangana are yet to provide them with a list of 40 trains for each day, along with details of passengers who will be travelling. “Running of 40 special trains daily will be a large-scale operation and hence a clear analysis of routes... is important. Originating and destination stations have to be carefully picked to avoid red zones,” said a railway official, on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, in a press conference on Tuesday evening, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said 11 special trains are being sent to various states like UP, Jharkhand, Bihar and the state government had paid Rs 4 crore advance. Officials said identification of workers and registration, which began a couple of days ago, will itself take two to three days. “Going by the number of registration of workers, only 12 to 15 trains are required daily. Secondly, trains can be operated only to destinations where a large number of people belong to the same state,” a senior GAD official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-trains-to-transport-workers-promised-only-one-ran-from-t/articleshow/75564179.cms||Arya Sharan
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Demand to relocate flower market||Residents of Srirangam have demanded the relocation of a wholesale flower market functioning in Sathara Street, after the Koyambedu market in Chennai emerged as one of the biggest clusters of Covid-19 infection in the state. After a brief gap, the market resumed operation on Tuesday. But, residents after noticing the huge crowd at the market alerted the district administration and Trichy Corporation about social distancing norms being flouted. Revenue officials reached the market and urged the vendors to maintain social distancing. Srirangam zone so far has not recorded any positive case. Corporation sources said they are planning to shift the market. “We will relocate it to an open ground similar to the vegetable market,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-to-relocate-flower-market/articleshow/75564964.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 6, 2020||Nashik||120 students stuck in Punjab reach Nashik||Nashik: The 120 students stranded in Punjab’s Lovely University reached Nashik late on Monday following which they left for their homes in six different buses arranged by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. "These students were stranded in Punjab. We requested Supriya Sule to help us in bringing them back to their homes. She coordinated with several people and made it possible," Bhujbal said. The students had reached Nashik on Monday night and were put up in MET-Bhujbal Knowledge City overnight. They left for their homes at 10am. "We had made arrangements to send these students by our college buses. They had breakfast in the morning and we provided them with food and water for their travel," Bhujbal added. According to the district administration, the students had left for Nashik from Jalandhar on May 2 after their primary screening. They were screened again after they reached the city. "No student has shown any symptom of Covid-19 and will stay in home quarantine for next two weeks," a district administration official said, adding the buses have been sent to Solapur, Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Pune and Ratnagiri. There are a total 165 students from the state studying at the aforesaid university. Of them 120 have reached Nashik and the remaining 45 will reach Nashik on Wednesday. "The other 45 students have also left from Punjab and will reach here tomorrow (Wednesday). We have made arrangements for them and they will also be sent to home in the college buses," the official said. Prasad Khedkar, a PhD student of Lovely University, said "All the students were feeling stressed due to the lockdown. Although the hostels were providing us food, panic had started to creep in. Our parents were also getting worried. We are grateful to the government for making arrangements for us." Apart from the students, there are a total eight teachers who hail from Maharashtra and were working at the university. They were accompanying the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/120-students-stuck-in-punjab-reach-nashik/articleshow/75562938.cms||pragya jain
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Telangana, Maharashtra slugfest over dumping workers at border||NAGPUR/HYDERABAD: Maharashtra and Telangana were caught in a slugfest on Tuesday over alleged dumping of migrant labourers during the lockdown. While Maharashtra alleged that around 10,000 labourers were left “like animals” at Sirpur-Korsa border in Chandrapur district, Telangana has denied the charges and said that only those with necessary permission were being sent in vehicles after proper screening and health check-ups. Maharashtra officials said this could result in introduction of coronavirus in remote tribal villages in eastern Vidarbha’s Gadchiroli district, a Covid-19 green zone. They alleged that most of the labourers were sent from the hotspots of Telangana and said their sudden arrival has triggered a massive damage control exercise by the local administration. While Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said he would look into the issue, a senior government official said the migrants labourers were “ferried like animals” in trucks and dumped at Sirpur-Korsa, which is around 40 km from Gadchiroli’s Ashti taluka. Gadchiroli district collector Deepak Singla said the indifferent and inhuman approach of Telangana government had taken him by surprise. Singla said Telangana may have now stopped sending the migrants, but the damage has been done. “Labourers coming from there are potential threat,” he said. Gadchiroli SP Shailesh Balkawade said they set up quarantine zones immediately at the place where the labourers were left behind. Singla said the actions of Telangana were flagged by him during a video-conference with chief minister Uddhav Thackarey, who had asked the state nodal officer to speak to Telangana authorities. Meanwhile, Telangana’s Komaram Bheem district collector Sandeep Jha has denied having received any communication from his Gadchiroli counterpart on the dumping of labourers along the border, Jha said: “We have also been coordinating with Chandrapur collector as the district shares a long border with us.” He said they are also keeping a watch on those trying to escape in boats using the river route. Adilabad district SP Vishnu Warrier, who is also in-charge SP of Komaram Bheem district, said, “The question of dumping any worker at the border by us does not arise. Those with a valid vehicle pass are only being allowed to cross over to the other side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/t-maha-slugfest-over-dumping-workers-at-border/articleshow/75567651.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man dies, villagers ransack forest office in Nirmal district||HYDERABAD: Enraged over the death of a 60-year-old farmer after he was reportedly manhandled by forest department personnel, villagers of Gandi Gopalpur on Tuesday attacked the office of the forest range officer and damaged a government vehicle in Nirmal district. Foresters claimed that the farmer had committed suicide. Alleging that 60-year-old farmer Gadde Narsaiah died after he was manhandled by forest department personnel after he was taken into custody on Monday, the villagers stormed FRO’s office at Udumpur, ransacked it and damaged a jeep parked in the vicinity. Forest department personnel, including FRO Ramesh, escaped unhurt. According to the forest officials, the elderly man was taken into custody on Monday after he was found lighting a fire in the forest abutting Gandi Gopalpur, which is in the core area of the Kawal tiger reserve, and was subsequently released. Narsaiah, however, died at a government hospital at Utnoor town in Adilabad district on Tuesday. “The person was not manhandled by our staff and the forest department is not responsible for his death. The FRO has come to know that the 60-year-old is presumed to have committed suicide. He was brought to the office of FRO Udumpur for inquiry and was released in a healthy condition after requests from the husband of a sarpanch and vice-sarpanch on Monday, after taking personal bonds from them and they took him to his village,” an official release from the forest department said. Forest officials have informed police about the attack and damage caused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-villagers-ransack-forest-office-in-nirmal-dist/articleshow/75564981.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Sic zones in Trichy out of containment list||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation on Tuesday removed six places from the list of containment zones after they completed the mandatory 28 days isolation period without reporting any fresh Covid-19 positive cases. Though residents have welcomed the much-awaited relief, they have planned to stay indoors as Covid-19 outbreak is still active. Since April 5, the corporation had been cordoning off localities in Palakkarai, Thillai Nagar, Thennur, Bhima Nagar and Mannarpuram. As many as 14 containment zones were established in the city. While the entry of outsiders was banned, residents were not permitted to step out of the zones. Meanwhile, as the 28-day quarantine period got over for six containment zones, authorities removed three each in K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai zones. “Though we feel relieved with the removal of barricades, we will continue to stay indoors,” said S A Sayeed, a resident of Quaid-e-Millet Street in Khaja Nagar. Earlier, the residents were deprived of milk and medicine due to restrictions, but the relaxation will pave way for the resumption of normal life allowing people to go out for essential needs. However, the corporation has instructed the residents to alert the authorities if anyone has Covid-19 symptoms. “In the next five days, few more containment zones including Kalinga Nagar will get relaxation,” a corporation official said. Similarly, local bodies in rural parts of the district have removed six containment zones and relaxed the restrictions. Six relaxed rural containment zones are situated in Manapparai, Manachanallur and Lalgudi unions, while Thuvakudi municipality has withdrawn one containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-zones-in-city-out-of-containment-list/articleshow/75564969.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||30,000 of 12 lakh migrants sent home, 20,000 of 2 lakh Maharashtra residents back||Mumbai: Fewer than 30,000 of the over 12 lakh migrants, tourists and pilgrims stranded across the state have reached their home states in the past three days while just around 20,000 of the two lakh residents of Maharashtra have returned from other states. ‘There has been a delay in transferring migrants due to the lengthy procedure. For booking an entire train, we need at least 1,200 passengers. Mobilizing migrants is a difficult task, as the district collector has to deposit the ticket amount with the railway administration,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. He said “very few” residents of Maharashtra are keen on returning from New Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. “Apparently, those with lucrative jobs, particularly in the IT sector, may not be keen on returning. On the other hand, daily wage earners are eager to be back,” he said. Konkan divisional commissioner Shivajirao Daund said in recent past, 2,000 workers from Gujarat reached Maharashtra via Palghar. “We had received a comprehensive communication from the Gujarat administration along with a list of workers. As they complied with all the procedures, we allowed them entry into the state,” said Daund. Daund added both the ministry of home affairs and the state have laid down a standard procedure for entry of migrants. “We insist on a letter from the district collector along with complete details of migrant workers and their medical certificates. Only then do we allow them entry. On their entry, as per the standard procedure, our medical team examines the migrants and thereafter admits them in the state. Even after they enter, we insist on a 14-day home quarantine,” said Daund. Nashik divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane said Jalgaon and Nandurbar collectors faced a piquant situation recently when 17,000 people from Gujarat sought entry. “Many had no letter from Gujarat administration nor were they medically screened there,” said Mane. In Chandrapur, 1,000 migrants from Telangana reached by train, following a lead by relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30k-of-12l-migrants-sent-home-20k-of-2l-maha-residents-back/articleshow/75564204.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Seven discharged, active cases now down to four||Coimbatore: The number of active novel coronavirus cases in the district dropped to four on Tuesday when seven patients were discharged from hospitals. The recovered patients comprise five police officers from Podanur, another cop from Kuniamuthur police station and a woman from Sirumugai. While the cops were admitted to the PSG Hospitals, the woman was undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital. They were discharged as they tested negative for the virus twice. All the recovered patients have been advised to remain in home quarantine for another two weeks. Now, only the 31-year-old pregnant woman and the family of three from KK Pudur are undergoing treatment. All of them are at the ESI Hospital. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said results of at least 160 people, whose samples were collected on Sunday and Monday, have come and none of them were tested positive for the virus. “We have collected samples from more frontline workers who are deployed in containment zones today (Tuesday).” The district administration, meanwhile, said every person who enters the district from other districts or states through the 11 check posts would be stamped. “The stamp will mention they are in quarantine and its duration,” the deputy director of public health said. However, the focus is on quarantining people coming from Chennai. While people from other districts have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, those from other states have to be in quarantine for as many days in one of the quarantine facilities in the district. There are four such facilities - a lodge in Mettupalayam, a school each in Pollachi and city, and a college outside the city limits – in the district. “After the 14 days in the facility, they need to remain in home quarantine for another 14 days,” Dr Kumar said. Since Monday, 31 people have been put in these quarantine facilities, while another 627 people have been placed in home quarantine. People in quarantine will have a dark green sticker stuck outside their houses, stating the entire duration of quarantine with start and end dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-discharged-active-cases-now-down-to-four/articleshow/75564272.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Man, 30, dies of Covid-19 in Meerut, death toll mounts to eight||MEERUT: A 30-year-old Meerut man, involved in manufacturing of masks, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, taking the death toll to eight. He is the youngest to have died in Meerut so far. While at least 11 person tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut on Tuesday, taking the tally to 177 (including one admitted in Kanpur). Two tested positive in Shamli and Hapur each and one tested positive in Baghpat, Bulandshahr and Muzaffarnagar each. With the fresh cases, Hapur’s tally reached 45, Shamli’s 28 (including two patients admitted in Agra, and three each in Auraiya and Mainpuri). Baghpat’s tally is 18, Bulandshahr’s 59 and in Muzaffarnagar, the tally is 24. Dr RC Gupta, principal of LLRM Medical College, said, “A 30-year-old man, who was admitted on Monday morning and died in the evening, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was brought in a critical condition with severe chest congestion. People should understand that it is crucial to bring the patient to the hospital on time.” While Aditi Singh, district magistrate of Hapur said, “Two people have tested positive in Hapur, including a five-year-old child. Another is linked to the sabzi mandi here. So we have shifted the mandi to an alternate spot to Vijay Vihar.” Dr KN Tiwari, Bulandshahr’s chief medical officer said, “One person has tested positive in Bulandshahr’s Shikarpur area.” This puts 13 people in the cluster of the Ayurvedic doctor who had tested positive and died in Delhi. Meanwhile, health officials in Shamli, too, confirmed that two positive cases from the district had links with the Naveen Sabzi Mandi in Shamli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-30-who-made-masks-dies-of-covid-19-in-meerut-death-toll-mounts-to-8/articleshow/75562943.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rain, squall in Banaskantha, one dead||PALANPUR: Heavy wind with rain and dust storm claimed life of a seven-year-old boy and injured several others in separate incidents in Bhabhar taluka of Banaskantha late Monday night. The deceased boy was identified as Rohit Thakor of Sanesda village in Bhabhar. He died after a tin box containing cement fell on him due. One person was critically injured after a tree fell on him while he was working in a farm. A tin box flying the air hit a 18-year-old youth causing serious injury in Bavaljudi village of Vadgam taluka on Monday night. According to district officials, over a dozen cattle were killed due to falling of trees and electricity poles. Several kuchha houses collapsed, trees and poles got uprooted due to the heavy winds that was blowing at high speed. The winds were so strong that a telecom tower of the BSNL collapsed and only its mangled remains could be seen on Tuesday morning, said Shivram Patel of Vedanch village in Palanpur. He added the winds has casued heavy damage to standing crops. Standing millet crop sown in 3.5 lakh hectare faces severe damage. The deputy director of Agriculture Banaskantha however was of the opinion that the unseasonal rain has proved to be blessing in disguise as the farmers will not require water to irrigate the millet crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-squall-in-banaskantha-one-dead/articleshow/75562948.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Maharashtra slugfest over dumping workers at border||NAGPUR/HYDERABAD: Maharashtra and Telangana were caught in a slugfest on Tuesday over alleged dumping of migrant labourers during the lockdown. While Maharashtra alleged that around 10,000 labourers were left “like animals” at Sirpur-Korsa border in Chandrapur district, Telangana has denied the charges and said that only those with necessary permission were being sent in vehicles after proper screening and health check-ups. Maharashtra officials said this could result in introduction of coronavirus in remote tribal villages in eastern Vidarbha’s Gadchiroli district, a Covid-19 green zone. They alleged that most of the labourers were sent from the hotspots of Telangana and said their sudden arrival has triggered a massive damage control exercise by the local administration. While Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said he would look into the issue, a senior government official said the migrants labourers were “ferried like animals” in trucks and dumped at Sirpur-Korsa, which is around 40 km from Gadchiroli’s Ashti taluka. Gadchiroli district collector Deepak Singla said the indifferent and inhuman approach of Telangana government had taken him by surprise. Singla said Telangana may have now stopped sending the migrants, but the damage has been done. “Labourers coming from there are potential threat,” he said. Gadchiroli SP Shailesh Balkawade said they set up quarantine zones immediately at the place where the labourers were left behind. Singla said the actions of Telangana were flagged by him during a video-conference with chief minister Uddhav Thackarey, who had asked the state nodal officer to speak to Telangana authorities. Meanwhile, Telangana’s Komaram Bheem district collector Sandeep Jha has denied having received any communication from his Gadchiroli counterpart on the dumping of labourers along the border, Jha said: “We have also been coordinating with Chandrapur collector as the district shares a long border with us.” He said they are also keeping a watch on those trying to escape in boats using the river route. Adilabad district SP Vishnu Warrier, who is also in-charge SP of Komaram Bheem district, said, “The question of dumping any worker at the border by us does not arise. Those with a valid vehicle pass are only being allowed to cross over to the other side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-maha-slugfest-over-dumping-workers-at-border/articleshow/75564197.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Developers worried of worker exodus, dangle bonus offers||HYDERABAD: Less than 24 hours after the city’s realty sector started to pick up pace, with migrant labourers slowly returning to work, a call from the police, on Tuesday morning, put brakes on the activity once again. Speaking to TOI, developers said that the cops asked them to draw up a list of labourers, employed at their sites, willing to go home. They will, subsequently, be accommodated on trains being arranged by the state . "We have started the process. By the end of the week we’ll know how many people are set to leave,” said R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president (business operations), Prestige Group (Hyderabad), fearing that a sizeable group of workers – almost up to 50% -- will sign up for the journey back home, especially with 40 trains scheduled every day. On Tuesday, the two under-construction Prestige sites had only 800 and 150 workers respectively. The fear is much the same among all developers, said Ramakrishna Rao, president of Credai-Hyderabad. “We are trying to motivate the workers to hold on till the festival season; but it is up to them,” he said. Fearing a mass exodus, many developers are doling out incentives to labourers willing to stay back. On offer are bonuses to promises of a Diwali bonanza. “We have decided to offer 20% extra to workers who stay back,” said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/developers-worried-of-worker-exodus-dangle-bonus-offers/articleshow/75564206.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 6, 2020||Nashik||2,000 workers, students leave for Bihar from Nandurbar||Nashik: More than 2,000 migrant workers and students left for Dharbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar by two trains from Nandurbar on Tuesday afternoon while the authorities will soon be arranging two more trains to transport more labourers to Bihar and Odisha. District officials said that 992 people boarded the Darbhanga-bound train and the remaining 1,022 the Saharsa-bound train to reach their homes. State tribal welfare minister and district guardian minister K C Padavi, along senior district administration officials, flagged off the two trains. “We have ensured that proper arrangements, like food and social distancing, were made for the people who left by the two trains,” said the minister One train left at 3:15pm and the other at 4pm. “The migrant workers from Bihar who used to work in the district got stuck after the lockdown and were desperate to reach home. Similarly, the students from Bihar, who study in education institutions in Nandurbar district, were also eager to travel back to their hometowns,” said district officials. Both the Maharashtra and Bihar governments coordinated before sending the migrant workers and students back to Bihar. The officials said that two more trains will be arranged shortly for 1,245 labourers from Purnia and 1,213 labourers from parts of Odisha. The district officials and Railway officials ensured social distancing and sanitation of the two trains that left on Tuesday, besides arranging food packets for the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2000-workers-students-leave-for-bihar-from-nandurbar/articleshow/75562960.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 6, 2020||Indore||Indore to groom Ethiopian city in waste management||INDORE: Another feather in the cap for Swachh Indore — It has been selected as supporter city to assist one of the cities of Ethiopia in implementing solid waste management system. Country’s cleanest city has been selected for this task as part of ‘Waste Wise Cities Campaign’ proposed under UN-Habitat programme of United Nations. Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) additional commissioner Rajneesh Kasera said that they would be providing assistance to city of Bahir Dar, Ethiopia in handling solid waste management efficiently. “This programme is meant to clean up and establish sustainable waste management practices in 20 cities around the world by 2022,” Kasera said while speaking to TOI. He said that applications were invited from different cities to apply either as Changemaker City – taking up the challenge or as Supporter City, assisting a Changemaker City (civic and technical twinning). “We have already adapted best possible practices in solid waste management on basis of which, we decided to go for the second option,” he said, adding that after evaluation, Indore has been selected as Supporter City and be paired with city of Bahir Dar. “This programme would not only help us share our best practices with other cities but also bring opportunities for us to learn and improvise for future needs,” he said. On being asked about key principles outlined in this campaign, Kasera said that this campaign focuses on best solid waste management practices, which includes improving collection and transportation of waste, promoting 5R principles – reuse, reduce, recycle, rethink and refuse the single use items, among other efforts to change public behaviour towards waste. “Introductory call between both the cities, and activities related to this campaign will start once Covid situation settles,” he added while talking to TOI..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-to-groom-ethiopian-city-in-waste-mgmt/articleshow/75564205.cms||Ashok Kumar
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for controversial video||Hyderabad: The central crime station on Tuesday booked an old city resident, Abu Faisal, for allegedly making and circulating a video containing inflammatory content. Faisal, a resident of Barkas, who is staying in Dubai, against whom few cases were registered by Hyderabad police in the past, had released a video, urging minorities not to cooperate with authorities fighting Covid-19. After the video went viral on social media, the cybercrime police registered a case under IT Act and under IPC sections for trying to create enmity between different communities. “Investigation is underway and we are collecting technical evidence against him,” said KVM Prasad, ACP, cybercrimes.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-controversial-video/articleshow/75564997.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Two of biggest migrant shelter homes empty||Nagpur: Two of the biggest migrant shelter homes in Nagpur, at Bokhara’s Tuli College and Reshimbagh’s Jain Kalar Bhavan, closed down as all inmates left for their homes after spending 40 days stranded due to the lockdown. Similar is the case with other shelters where everyday a batch of migrants leave for their home states either by bus or train. Around 500 migrants still remain to be sent home in city’s shelter homes.Devendra Kumar of NGO Livewell Foundation which is managing the Agrasen Bhavan shelter at Ravi Nagar said now only a handful remain at his centre. “Majority of them have gone and that takes away the anxiety of a few who remain behind. They know that the process of evacuation has actually started and soon they too will be connected to their return journey,” said Kumar. He added that the ones who are awaiting the homebound journey do keep getting calls from their home. “Obviously relatives wonder why they are not yet on the bus or train. But we also counsel them and tell them that arrangements are being made and it’s only a matter of time. Formalities related to paperwork have already been completed for everyone,” said Kumar. For shelter owners/hosts, there already seems to be a sense of loss of developing. Mohabbat Singh Tuli, chairman of Tuli group of educational institutes, which hosted over hundred inmates said everybody cried when the last bus left. “For over a month there was so much activity here with families around, food being cooked etc. Now all of a sudden there’s a deafening silence and complete darkness on the campus. I felt like my family has left after spending some time during vacations,” said Tuli. Vijay Chourasiya, caretaker of the Reshimbagh centre, said all 70-odd inmates leaving the facility did feel like a sudden change after a hyperactive daily schedule. “Only one of the inmates is currently admitted to the government mental institution, while all others have already reached their homes. It was our pleasure to serve them,” said Chourasiya. Former mayor and MLC Anil Sole says now it’s time to focus on people from Nagpur division who are stuck elsewhere. Sole wrote to state assembly speaker Nana Patole saying there are over 45,000 people from Nagpur division who are stuck due to the lockdown. “The government needs to take proactive steps so that local residents can be reunited with their families at the earliest,” said Sole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-of-biggest-migrant-shelter-homes-empty/articleshow/75564208.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 6, 2020||Indore||Lockdown halts transport business||Indore: Lockdown has halted the transport sector with just about 20 per cent rolling in transportation of essential goods. While for the rest, lack of drivers and subordinate staff as many have left for native villages are seen as major challenge in resuming work with easing lockdown guidelines. Rakesh Tiwari, state president, All India Motor Transport Congress, Madhya Pradesh chapter said, “Survival is the biggest challenge in such a scenario. Drivers and workers are reluctant to come back fearing corona infection. Government should announce insurance cover for drivers also so that they get a sense of security.” To survive slump in lockdown period, transporters have sought suspension of state and municipal tolls and reduction in VAT on diesel. Tiwari said, “Many transport firms especially smaller ones will shut down. State, municipal tolls and diesel together constitute about 80 per cent of the operating cost, if these are suspended, the sector will be immensely benefitted.” Many transporters said though many industries are gradually resuming operations with ease in lockdown guidelines and may require transportation, lack of drivers will play a spoil sports for them. Transporters of the state held a meeting to discuss issues related to compliance and resuming operations. They demanded that all statutory compliances should be deferred by six months, and interest on EMIs should be waived for the deferred period. Transporters said to aid the industry survive this slump, all taxes including road tax, goods tax and passenger tax should be deferred till October 31, 2020 and thereafter it should be taken at 50 per cent for the rest of the period in the current financial year. Vijay Kalra, vice president, All India Motor Transport Congress, west zone said, “On duty drivers are getting infected with Covid-19. The government should make arrangements utilizing infrastructure at petrol pumps and toll plazas for sanitization of vehicles, screening of drivers, helpers and creating adequate awareness on the highways and roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/lockdown-halts-transport-business/articleshow/75543103.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Many ATMs in Trichy go dry due to heavy withdrawals||TRICHY: Many of the ATMs in the city have gone dry as there have been heavy withdrawals over the last few days. This has been the case despite bank branches loading cash in ATMs daily at some of the key locations. While ATM withdrawals are high during the first five days every month, the lockdown has increased the rate to an unprecedented rate, said bank officials. S Bashir from KK Nagar said that he searched for ATMs from TVS Tollgate through Kajahmalai till K K Nagar but found the ATMs of IOB, SBI and Indian Bank dry. He had to go all the way to Mannarpuram where withdrew from an ATM of a private bank branch. Bashir says that he even thought of going to his bank for withdrawal, but decided against it as there was already a queue for bulk cash withdrawal. “This unprecedented level of withdrawal has been a challenge during the lockdown to keep the ATM machines running,” said G Sathyanarayanan, lead bank manager (LDM) of Trichy. There are roughly 430 ATMs across the district among which 360 machines are in the city limits. Explaining the pattern of withdrawal before the lockdown, LDM said that ATM machines are filled daily on the first five days of a month. Cash is loaded on alternate days till the middle of the month and once in two or three days the rest of days. “However, most bank branches are loading cash daily as they are receiving cash shortage alert almost daily from the ATMs. We will instruct banks to keep stock of cash in ATMs to ensure that they don’t go dry,” he said. He said that withdrawals have almost doubled in many ATMs and currently an ATM witnesses up to 650 withdrawals per day which was roughly 300 on normal days. Overall deposit of cash has come down significantly whereas there was considerable increase in withdrawals, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-atms-in-city-go-dry-due-to-heavy-withdrawals/articleshow/75564975.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 6, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Brace for prolonged power cuts for two more weeks||INDORE: Residents will have to deal with prolonged power cuts for two more weeks as Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited (MPPKVVCL) has released a new shutdown schedule for its ongoing pre-monsoon maintenance work. The discom was unable to extend shutdown duration, so, it has extended days to ensure maintenance of feeder lines and distribution network. “We have to extend the shutdown schedule till May 20,” said discom superintendent engineer Ashok Sharma while talking o TOI. “About 30 per cent of our 11KV feeders are in need of immediate repair or maintenance. This work requires at least five to six hours in a day. So, we were left with no option, but to extend the shutdown plan,” Sharma said, adding that shutdown duration would not be more than four hours. “All maintenance work has been planned during morning hours between 7am and 11:30am to prevent any major inconvenience to citizens,” he said. The extension of shutdown comes a week after discom started its maintenance work on April 29 and found around 108 feeders, which need immediate maintenance. Discom officials engaged in the maintenance work said that they were facing several issues like replacement of jumpers, identification of hot points on grids and substations, pruning of tree branches, straightening of hanging overhead cables, during the work. “Most of the maintenance work is to be carried out in north parts of the city, where number of critical feeders are much higher than those in other areas,” they pointed while talking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/brace-for-prolonged-power-cuts-for-two-more-weeks/articleshow/75564211.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Four missing COVID-19 patients booked in Nanded||Aurangabad: A case was registered against four COVID-19 patients, who went missing at Nanded district in Maharashtra, police said on Tuesday. The police have launched a manhunt for four persons, who were among 20 pilgrims from the Langar Sahib, part of the Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand Gurdwara, over 255 km from here, an official said. Of the 20 pilgrims who tested positive, 16 were traced on Sunday, while the hunt was on for the remaining four, all of whom are residents of Nanded, he said. At least 20 pilgrims tested positive for COVID-19, after swabs of 97 persons staying in the Langar Sahib were sent for testing between April 30 and May 1. However, by the time the reports came in, the 20 had moved, the official said. A case under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other provisions of the IPC, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act was registered at Vazirabad police station, he added. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/four-missing-covid-19-patients-booked-in-nanded/articleshow/75562971.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Two test Covid-19 +ve in central region||TRICHY: The central region of the state reported a decline in the progression rate of Covid-19 cases after a day of sudden spike with two cases being reported in Trichy and Perambalur on Tuesday. As many as 39 cases were reported from the region on Monday. A 30-year-old man from Pullambadi area in Trichy tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. According to sources, he was a Koyambedu returnee. The district administration identified 28 Koyambedu returnees and tested their samples. Four of them tested positive on Monday. The public health department was in the process of collecting samples of the positive patient’s close contacts and secondary contacts. The district administration took samples from 667 people who returned from Chennai and other states recently. Of them, five tested positive including Tuesday’s case for Covid-19. The new positive case took the tally of Trichy district to 56. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has so far treated 47 cases. As many as nine patients from Trichy, nine patients from Ariyalur, 12 patients from Perambalur and one patient from Pudukottai is undergoing treatment at MGMGH. A day after reporting 25 Covid-19 positive cases, Perambalur on Tuesday reported only one positive case, a 5-year-old girl from Valikandapuram in Perambalur. The girl along with her family of four returned to Perambalur from Royapuram, Chennai in a truck on May 1. On information, health officials collected samples from the family members. All others in the family, except the girl, tested negative. A containment zone has been established at Valikandapuram. More than 200 people have been put under quarantine in the district. In Ariyalur, no fresh Covid-19 case was reported on Tuesday. However, samples of 56 people who have returned from Chennai were collected. Officials said that Chennai returnees who tested negative were moved from institutional quarantine to home quarantine. They were told to alert the authorities if they develop any symptoms. A total of 455 people awaiting test results are in quarantine facilities established at nine places in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-test-ve-in-central-region/articleshow/75564982.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Start-ups struggle with uncertainty over expansion into new markets, finds survey||HYDERABAD: ‘How to identify and tap into new markets?’ is the biggest question lingering in the minds of entrepreneurs of early-stage start-ups amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In response to a survey conducted by start-up incubator T-Hub on problems that entrepreneurs are facing during the lockdown, 58.13% of 1,241 respondents said that they want to identify and tap into new markets, but do not know how to go about it. Start-up founders also said that they were uncertain about the ways to identify opportunities. Over 50% of them said that they know there are opportunities but are unsure about ways to identify them. Founders also raised concerns over funding as almost 49% said that they know people who may want to invest or loan some money, but that they are unable to convince them or close the deal. The survey was conducted to help T-Hub figure out what programmes to design and conduct to help business owners in the face of the Covid-19 crisis. Start-up founders from across the country responded to the survey, which had 15 questions. A little over 40% of the respondents said that they have new features or products, but had doubts about conducting tests on them in the market before going ahead with a full-scale launch. Other questions from the survey include startups finding it difficult to effectively manage a remote team, unsure of how to ease the minds of staff about uncertainties they face, among others. Apart from identifying the problems entrepreneurs are facing, T-Hub also tried to find out if entrepreneurs or founders need assistance in the form of solution kits, long-term mentorship, training programmes or workshops, among others. Amid the pandemic, startups are also reaching out to T-Hub with specific tasks to connect them with investors, or for information on various loans and grants. Besides these, startups are also seeking guidance on adapting to the rapidly changing business landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/start-ups-struggle-with-uncertainty-over-expansion-into-new-markets-finds-survey/articleshow/75564210.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Social boycott row in Telangana village||HYDERABAD: A group of villagers of Doodgaon in Mendora mandal of Nizamabad district lodged a complaint with authorities that a section of villagers are boycotting them socially. They alleged that people of a certain caste have circulated information among themselves that whoever speaks to them or has any interaction would be imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh. Revenue officials, however, said they resolved the issue. Though both the groups belong to Backward Classes, there is one dominant caste in the village. People belonging to this caste took exception to a boy of another caste marrying a girl belonging to their caste. “Both the families had no problem with the marriage,” a local official said. However, villagers who belonged to the boy’s caste sensed they were being boycotted. They brought this to the notice of local authorities who enquired into the matter. Villagers said they were not being allowed to buy things in the village. They were also being denied tractors to carry out farm works. After the authorities received a complaint on April 29, they conducted a preliminary enquiry on May 1. Meanwhle, tahsildar of Mendora mandal Ilyaz Ahmed told TOI that the issue has been amicably settled. After questioning both groups, officials got them to come to an understanding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-boycott-row-in-t-village/articleshow/75564984.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 6, 2020||Pune||Trains for migrant workers may start from Daund to avoid crowding at Pune station||PUNE: Collector Naval Kishore Ram said 68,000 migrant workers have applied to travel from Pune to various destinations. “We do not want the commute from Pune railway station as it will bring in a crowd. We will ferry them to Daund or Lonikand and have the rail services from there. Talks are on with the railway authorities,'' he told TOI. Train services will be from destination to destination and the workers will be arranged as per social distancing norms. They will be provided water and meals as they start their travel and if the journey is for more than twelve hours they would be provided food by the railway authorities. “All these workers can be checked by the receiving state who will decide whether they should be home quarantined or go into institutional quarantine,''he said. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI that no directions had from the Centre, but NGOs and political parties have approached the administration to fund the workers’ travel and they are looking at the logistics. “We are registering the workers online with help from police officials who have arranged kiosks,” he told TOI. There are demands from some states about a non-Covid-19 certificate which is not possible, he said. “We have told the Indian Medical Association members not to charge them much and check whether the workers have any Covid-19 symptoms or influenza and certify their travel. Once we receive the states’ permission, we will check for the number of persons travelling to the specific destination. If there are more than 1,000 persons we will arrange a train, ''he added. Only Madhya Pradesh has agreed to bear the expenses, Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trains-for-migrant-workers-may-start-from-daund-to-avoid-crowding-at-pune-station/articleshow/75564987.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Households wary, but start letting in helps||KOLKATA: Domestic helps were back at work at a number of households from Monday. It was the first day of the third phase of the nationwide lockdown that relaxed norms for maids who live near their employers’ houses that are not within containment zones. However, even as several stand-alone houses allowed domestic helps, almost all major residential housing complexes in the city refused entry to the maids after detailed governing body meetings between Saturday and Sunday. “Initially, we were hoping to bring in the maids after the end of the lockdown, but looking at the steady rise in the number of persons affected with the disease in the last few weeks, we have decided not to allow any part-time maids from outside to work within the complex as of now,” said Sunil Agarwal, a resident of South City. Several other housing complexes in the city, including Upohar condominium, Fort Oasis and Power Tower in New Town have also refused entry to part-time helps. While some complexes, such as Urbana, have allowed entry of drivers till the parking area and has also residents to bring in permanent maids, others — such as Silver Spring — allowed resident maids employed with one flat owner to work at other flats if the maid is willing and the original flat owner permits the same. Many families with senior citizens and toddlers said that they were having a tough time without maids as they also had office work. Behala Sakherbazar resident Somnath Das was among those who asked both his maids to join work from Monday. “For the past six weeks, my wife and I had to do all the household chores. Both of us are in our late 70s and it is impossible for us to do everything by ourselves and we had been practically surviving on daal-bhaat these days,” said Das, a former state government official whose children live abroad. While several families had paid the salary to the maids for the month of March, most didn’t pay them for April. “I worked at six houses but now only two of them have asked me to join. Four families, haven’t paid for April and have also asked me not to come,” said Sandhya Das, a domestic help and resident of Thakurpukur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/households-wary-but-start-letting-in-helps/articleshow/75565000.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Eight Myanmar tablighis released on bail||Nagpur: The eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Myanmar, booked by Tehsil police for violation of Foreigners Act, were granted bail on personal bond of Rs15,000 each by a court here on Tuesday.The Tablighis, after touring Delhi and visiting Nizamuddin Markaz, had reached Nagpur on March 7. It is learnt that though they had visited the Markaz, they did not attended the religious congregation at the same venue which later turned into a coronavirus hotspot. The Tablighis were residing at a mosque at Gittikhadan before shifting to Lal Masjid in Mominpura on March 27. They were later rounded up and shifted to institutional quarantine facility at MLA Hostel. On April 5 last month, an offence was registered against the eight Tablighis for flouting the norms of the tourist visa by participating in religious preaching. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station said chargesheet would be soon be put up against them before the competent court. Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel has been pursuing the case. The tablighis were represented by counsels Jayant Aloni, Riyaz Khan and Francis Karayil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eight-myanmar-tablighis-released-on-bail/articleshow/75564215.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 6, 2020||Indore||Indore: 2/3rd of discharged people are aged 21 to 50 years||INDORE: Almost two-third of patients cured of Covid-19 infection in city belongs to the age group of 21 to 50 years of age, according to data from chief medical and health officer. Out of 329 patients discharged till May 3 in district, 66.27% (185) were of the age group of 21 to 50 years. The maximum discharged of 103 persons were witnessed in age group of 31-50 till May 3. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD Respiratory medicine, SAIMS, with maximum Covid-19 patients in city said, “This is primarily because people in the age group 21-50 are mostly asymptomatic contact of Covid-19 infection. They are undergoing treatment because of the protocol and getting cured easily.” These persons are most active age groups and are mostly infected ones also. But, as they are without any comorbid conditions and have high immunity, they are fighting the infection easily as compared to other age groups, said Dosi. In Indore, persons between age group of 31-50 are mostly infected with Covid-19 infection. Out of 135 infected persons till April 6, 37.77% were of the age group 31-50. The severity of infection depends on the viral load of person with infection. If any person came in contact of somebody with severe infection, he will get severely infected, said Dosi. However, in case of higher age group like above 60 comorbidities and low immunity are the major reason behind the low discharge rate, said Dosi. But, it doesn’t mean persons of higher age group are not getting cured. They are also getting cured, added Dosi. Also, the records suggest the maximum and minimum age of the persons discharged so far is 98 and 4 years respectively till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2/3rd-of-discharged-people-are-aged-21-to-50-yrs/articleshow/75564229.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 6, 2020||Indore||14 Covid-19 patients return home cured||INDORE: A 57-year-old resident of Chandan Nagar returned home from MRTB hospital a month after admitted in critical condition because of Covid-19 infection. He was among the 14 people including one woman of Khargone discharged from the two different health facilities on Tuesday. Three persons including two females were discharged from MRTB and rest from Sewakunj Hospital. The 57-year-old male was admitted to hospital on April 4 in critical condition and requiring oxygen constantly. He was put on bipap immediately, said Dr Salil Bhargava, HoD of respiratory medicine MGM and superintendent of MRTB Hospital. He was kept on observation and administered antibiotics, HCQs, high doses of vitamins. He was also been kept motivated and told about persons of high age group and similar condition getting cured, said Bhargava. Luckily, this worked and the situation of the male improved. Later, oxygen content in his blood and X-ray reports improved. His swab samples were collected twice and it was tested negative, added Bhargava. Indore reported 1654 positive cases of COVID-19 infection and 468 persons were discharged till May 04.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/14-covid-19-patients-return-home-cured/articleshow/75564216.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man dupes social worker of Rs 3.67 lakh||Hyderabad: A cyber criminal was booked by the cybercrime police on Tuesday for duping a city-based social worker looking to buy PPE online for distribution to frontline workers of Rs 3.67 lakh.  As there is shortage of masks and gloves,Viswanathan, a resident of West Marredpally, checked for them online on India Mart. “Viswanathan received a call from a person who introduced himself as Louis Rhys from UK and said he would supply PPE. However, he asked Viswanathan to deposit money in his bank account stating that money has to be paid in advance.” After Viswanathan paid the money online, the accused went incommunicado,” Cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad told TOI. Viswanathan later lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dupes-social-worker-of-rs-3-67-lakh/articleshow/75564213.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Government teachers chip in with Rs 15 lakh to help families of over 2,000 students||THANJAVUR: Teachers from 105 government schools in the district have donated essential items such as rice and grocery worth Rs15 lakh to families of 2,832 students enrolled in their schools under the mission ‘Our school, our children, our family’. District collector M Govinda Rao inaugurated the distribution at a function organized at a school in Pasupathipalayam here on Tuesday. He also handed over the essentials to be distributed at various blocks to chief educational officer M Ramakrishnan. Teachers from various government schools expressed their willingness to extend a helping hand to the families of their students, as most of them were struggling to feed their family members as there was no income due to total lockdown. Some of them had already distributed essentials at various places on their own, he added. “Instead of donating the essentials individually to a few people, we wished to mobilize teachers willing to donate something to the families of their students. 533 teachers including 103 headmasters from 105 schools came forward to execute the mission,” he said. The teachers chipped in Rs15.28 lakh and purchased the required essentials and handed over them to the families hailing from Thanjavur, Bhoothalur, Papanasam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Mathukur, Pattukottai and Ammapettai blocks in the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-teachers-chip-in-with-rs-15l-to-help-families-of-over-2k-students/articleshow/75564985.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 6, 2020||Nashik||BJP MP approaches Aurangabad top cop against Jaleel's remarks||Aurangabad: Maharashtra BJP leader Bhagwat Karad on Tuesday said he had approached Aurangabad police commissioner seeking action against local AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel for the latter's "provocative" statement on reopening of liquor shops. Jaleel on Monday said the decision to open liquor shops amid easing of restrictions in the coronavirus-induced lockdown was not correct and warned that vends that open here will be "forcefully shut down" by his party. "The language used by Lok Sabha MP Jaleel is provocative. I have complained against him to the city police commissioner and urged him to take action," said Karad, a Rajya Sabha MP and a vice president of Maharashtra BJP. Karad, who is based in Aurangabad, said he was also against the government's decision to reopen liquor shops, as Aurangabad is in red zone due to high number of COVID-19 cases. In his statement, Jaleel had also said that liquor consumption led to domestic violence in lower income households and women bore the brunt of assaults by their inebriated husbands. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-mp-approaches-aurangabad-top-cop-against-jaleels-remarks/articleshow/75562991.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Caps Lock: Computer hub yet to reboot, long trips frustrated||NEW DELHI: Standing in the middle of the desolate public plaza of Nehru Place district centre, homemaker 37-year-old Ashima Gupta frantically scanned the sprawling complex for some sign of life. However, except a lone stationary shop, everything was shuttered. Gupta needed a printer for her son’s school assignments and had heard that shops in the computer hub of the city had opened, only to find they were rumours. “Though classes are taking place online, it helps to have a printer for some assignments. There is a lot of study material being uploaded by teachers. I want my son to read these on paper as the constant glare of the computer screen can harm him,” said the Sheikh Sarai resident, who had gone there with her husband. The Guptas were not the only desperate ones. Jitesh Verma (43), who works with a private firm, was also hoping to find some shops open in the computer hardware and software market that attracts customers from far-off places. “My laptop is very old and not functional anymore. I wanted to buy a new one as you can’t do all your work on a smartphone. Working from home is a different ballgame. I’m at my wit’s end working on excel sheets on my phone,” said the Janakpuri resident. “The computer shops in west Delhi are closed and Nehru Place was my best bet. I had heard offices can now open. Since this is also an office complex, I expected a few shops to open,” said Verma. Praveen Suri (55), a Mayur Vihar resident, said, “My laptop is fine, but the charger has stopped working. I’m managing by borrowing my neighbour’s charger, but he needs it too. While people are working from home, their children are busy with online classes. Computers and a good Wi-Fi connection have become an essential part of life. I don’t think any residential area in Delhi has computer shops. These markets and malls should be exempted.” Maya Shankar Singh, who runs Lotus Systems and Services, said, “I’m getting many calls from people who want to get their laptops repaired urgently. With work from home and online classes, demand has increased manifold. There were rumours that some people had opened their shops, but we are all sitting at home.” Sachin Kujreja of Amritash Infosol said even he had been receiving a huge number of inquiries despite his establishment only serving corporate clients.  “From retail stores to suppliers and those who provide set-ups for companies, Nehru Place caters to all types of computer work. Apart from the demand for desktops by students and laptops for those working from home, many queries have been made for chargers,” he added. “The work at computer shops in Nehru Place is not labour intensive and most of the towers mainly have offices with negligible public interaction. If allowed, we can also courier goods anywhere in Delhi-NCR. A new charger costs Rs 800-900 and the customer won’t mind paying Rs 50 extra as courier charges,” said Kukreja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/caps-lock-computer-hub-yet-to-reboot-long-trips-frustrated/articleshow/75564996.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Examiners told to get papers from centres||KOLKATA: Several ICSE examiners who are yet to finish evaluating answer scripts have received messages from their team leaders, reportedly asking them to fetch the papers from their centres, leading to much confusion among the teachers. Most of them have reportedly replied they can’t travel to the centres as public transport is not allowed in Red Zones and those stuck in containment areas are not allowed to even step out of their homes. “On Monday, I received a message on the WhatsApp group formed for our centre that really took me by surprise. The head of our group asked us to fetch the answer scripts from the centre as otherwise she would have to visit individual examiners to hand over the scripts. I replied that when the lockdown started, it was planned that we would receive the answer scripts at home for evaluation,” said a teacher at a central Kolkata school who lives in Howrah, where stricter clampdown has been imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus after multiple Covid-19 positive cases emreged in the area. “I wrote to the head that I cannot even step out of my house as the entire locality I live in has been turned into a containment zone and barricaded. I said I could at the most take permission from the local police station and walk up to the main road to take the papers if someone comes to deliver them.” “There is no question of going to the centre as no buses or cabs are available,” said another teacher. A few days ago, on the instruction of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination, heads of exam centres reportedly noted down the residential addresses of examiners so that the answer scripts could be hand-delivered to them. According to an official, it’s the responsibility of the team leaders to deliver the papers to her examiners’ homes and for that, the authorities are supposed to arrange for vehicles for them. Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School and joint secretary of the Association of Heads of ICSE Schools, said if the examiners had received such messages, they could approach their centre heads. “The answer scripts have to be hand-delivered to examiners,” he said. Council secretary and chief executive Gerry Arathoon said, “It is a minor issue that will be resolved.” Last year and till the lockdown was announced, evaluation of board answer scripts was a centralised process with examiners correcting the papers at the centres assigned to them. Nobody could carry the answer scripts home. But the rule had to be modified after the spread of novel coronavirus took an alarming proportion and the examiners yet to finish correction are allowed to complete the process at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/examiners-told-to-get-papers-from-centres/articleshow/75564242.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Book depots, hosiery shops open in city upon rule revision||Nagpur: After over 40 days of being shut, many book depots and hosiery shops opened on Tuesday in accordance with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) revised guidelines. Food outlets in the airport and railway station premises, though, expectedly chose to remain closed as there was no chance of customers coming their way. Construction sites, too remained inactive due to the logistical challenge of finding labourers.Gaurav Agrawala, secretary of builders’ association Credai Nagpur Metro said, “We are ready to start work while adhering to guidelines of keeping workers on site, but are not getting permission to bring labourers here. They ask us to use the workers already on site, but everyone has already left.”Initially there was some confusion about opening up of shops, which seemed to be a bureaucratic hold-up. Western Book Depot owner Vinod Nangia said, “I enquired with someone at NMC and they said no circular had come till now. I waited till noon, when finally the circular was sent to me by an acquaintance. We opened the shop but as expected, hardly any customers were there.”For Anand Chopda, owner of Novelty Book Depot, it was a moment of anxiety when cops came asking about the reason for opening the shop. “I opened my shop after speaking with the local corporator, who confirmed that permission had been granted. Soon after opening, two cops came on a bike and said only stationery shops are allowed,” Chopda said.“We explained to them that all book depots sell stationery items as well. They saw that we were selling pens, compass boxes, sketch pens etc, following which they were convinced and left,” he added.Shop owners in Khamla, however, were not so lucky as the cops shut them down midway. Former corporator Prakash Totwani said, “Around five shops, book depots and hosieries were shut by the cops today. Even though the traders said that NMC has given permission for them to operate, the cops said written order had not been received at the local police station.”Though it was a slow business day, shop owners got time to acclimatize with the ‘new normal’ and prepare for the eventual rush that shall come their way.Niraj Agrawal, owner of Agrawal Copy Centre said, “In the morning we sanitized the whole shop — something we may do everyday. Circles have been drawn for people to stand. There were just a handful of people today because schools are still closed and offices, which require stationery, have not started operating at full capacity.”Book depots are also discussing the possibility of home delivery in green zones with schools. Under this plan, schools will inform parents about book depots being open and they can place orders for textbooks and other stationery items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/book-depots-hosiery-shops-open-in-city-upon-rule-revision/articleshow/75564231.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor sales to restart in Buldhana||Nagpur: Buldhana collector Suman Chandra announced resumption of liquor sales in Covid-19 non-containment zones across the district after an over 45-day-long dry spell bringing cheer to tipplers.The decision to open the retail outlets across Buldhana district was taken with restrictions, a notification issued by the district collector stated. Liquor shops in rural area can remain open, while in urban areas it will not be allowed to open in containment zones. The collector also put 10am to 6pm timing restrictions for liquor shops.It also issued directives to the owners to install board informing revised timings and ensure not more than five persons were allowed to stand in front of the shop, follow social distancing, wear masks etcAs per guidelines, the shopkeeper will have to keep a thermal scanner to scan all customers. If any customer is found suffering from fever, cold and cough, no liquor should be sold to them. No bar and restaurants or functioning of any eating house will be allowed, the notification stated. Meanwhile, the state government has issued a clarification empowering municipal commissioners of Nagpur, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), Nashik and Aurangabad to regulate timings of shops that will open in these areas.The clarification states, "All shops/markets, which are allowed to remain open as per order dated May 2 and 3, 2020, shall remain open to their full operational timing and days. No restrictions like timings, day, etc will be imposed by any authority except the municipal commissioners and district collectors in rest of the areas."After remaining in green zone, Wardha district collector Vivek Bhimanwar has given relaxation for opening of shops and establishments across the district between 7am and 2pm on Tuesday.Bhimanwar issued an order saying some activities remain prohibited such as saloon, spa, beauty parlours, film theatre, school, colleges and mass gatherings. District has not reported any Covid-19 positive case since beginning of outbreak in region. Administration has also warned of strict action against those violating social distancing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-sales-to-restart-in-buldhana/articleshow/75564237.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Over 800 people booked for not wearing masks||Nashik: More than 800 people have been booked by city police between March 22 and May 4 for not wearing face masks while moving around on the streets. According to a senior police officer, these people have been booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. As per the Epidemic Disease Act, which is in force in Nashik and elsewhere, the district administration and police have made wearing masks compulsory for citizens when they are in the public place. However, a large number of people still continue to move around the city without wearing the mask. On this backdrop, police are continuously patrolling various parts of the city and booking people who are not following the norm. The four units of Nirbhaya squad of the city police are also patrolling city areas and taking action against such people. "Form March 22 to May 4, we have booked 4,696 people under section 188 for various reasons that were in violation of the orders issued by the police and the district collector under the Epidemic Diseases Act," the police officer said, adding that this also include the 853 people who were caught without mask. Further from March 25 to May 3, the city traffic branch has collected fines to the of Rs 19.89 lakh from errant motorists. "The spread of Covid-19 is only increasing in the city and the district following which people should avoid moving out of the house without any strong reason. If at all they are stepping out of the house, they should be wearing mask and maintain social distancing and adhere to all the rules laid by the administration," the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-800-people-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75563015.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 6, 2020||Pune||Stranded seek more ways to get health certificates||Pune: The 47 medical facilities authorized to issue fitness certificates to migrant workers in Pimpri Chinchwad police jurisdiction are proving to be inadequate, with over 45,000 having enrolled their names. Long, serpentine queues and a complete lack of social distancing stand testimony to the undue burden placed on these facilities, which issue the all important certificate, a pre-requisite for workers looking to travel back home. On Tuesday, workers living in villages near Chakan flocked the Chakan and Mhalunge police stations. The scene was the same outside Chakan health centre and hospitals. Madhav Kankawale, medical superintendent of rural hospital, Chakan, said that they were able to issue certificates to 950 workers. “Conducting a proper check up is most important — it takes 30-45 minutes to check one person,” he said. Many of them start queuing up early in the day and spend hours in the line, even as the day gets progressively hotter. “I came to the hospital at 7am and got done with my medical check up at noon. Everyone stands for hours without any food and water,” said Virender Singh, who hails from Bihar and lives in Nanekarwadi village. Many have no choice, desperate as they are to return home. “I want to return to my native village as the situation will become worse in monsoon. I will be safe there,” a worker from Bihar said. “We got half our salary last month and the future is very uncertain. At least I can work on my farms back home,” Santosh Singh, from Bihar, said. The workers are demanding that more facilities be allowed to issue certificates. However, the authorities don’t see the need. “The designated hospitals are sufficient at the moment,” additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale told TOI. Chakan Municipal Council said the town has 30,000 workers. “We will rope in more private hospitals,” chief officer Nilam Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stranded-seek-more-ways-to-get-health-certificates/articleshow/75564993.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||600 ST buses to ferry 15k people||Pune: Close to 600 buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be pressed into service within a week to transport around 15,000 people stranded in the city to different parts of the state, sources in the state transport body said. A senior official of the MSRTC Pune division told TOI that the last-minute preparation for movement of stranded people was being carried out at present. "Currently, we are listing the names of people who want to travel to their home districts. This exercise is being carried out by the district administration along with the tehsil offices. The process is likely to go on for some time till we get a complete list of people and the places they need to travel to. For inter-state travel, preparations are being made and we expect close to 600 buses will be used to transport people," he added. "The buses for inter-state travel are only for those who are stranded and have registered themselves with the district administration. They will be transferred to the bus stops of the MSRTC from where they will board the buses. In all likelihood, two bus stops in Pune -- Swargate and Wakrewadi -- will be used for this purpose," said another official. "Our depot managers are in touch with the tehsildars and other concerned representatives and are monitoring the registrations and updating the data on the basis of which the number of buses will be arranged," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/600-st-buses-to-ferry-15k-people/articleshow/75564991.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Nine of 13 who fled Dahod prison held||VADODARA: The Dahod police nabbed nine out of the 13 prisoners who had made a daring escape from the Devgadh Baria sub-jail on May 1. Two were nabbed on Sunday while seven others were caught on Monday. The prisoners were involved in serious offences like murder, rape, dacoity and others. Police had formed several teams and roped in cops from multiple police stations and branches to hunt for these prisoners. Extensive combing operations were conducted across the district to nab the accused. The accused who were kept in two different cells had forced open the lock of their cells in the jail and then the barrack where they were kept. It is alleged that they scaled a 21-feet high wall to escape from the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nine-of-13-who-fled-dahod-prison-held/articleshow/75561124.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Indore||FICCI urges Madhya Pradesh govt to emulate Haryana MSME revival model||INDORE: Stressing on financial constraints and towering liabilities of fixed charges on MSME, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) suggested an incentive scheme in lines with ‘Haryana MSME revival Interest Benefit Scheme’ for the state. Stressing on urgent government intervention to support MSME sector, FICCI recommended Haryana model to MP government where eligible unit would get 100 per cent interest benefit on loans availed for payment of wages of employees and other expenses up to a maximum of Rs 20,000 per employee. As per the scheme, interest benefit shall be limited to the interest paid by the unit to the bank up to a period of six months and the rate of interest should be calculated at a rate of 8 per cent per annum or actual rate of interest charged by the bank/financial institution on term loan/working capital loan whichever in lower. Payment of wages to workers for April when establishments were closed due to lockdown has become a major disagreement between industries and workers. Many industries have showed helplessness in paying wages while some have agreed to pay 33 to 50 per cent. Industries claimed many workers are demanding wages for entire month on basis of Centre’s directive to pay wages to employees. Pramod Dafaria, president, Association of Madhya Pradesh (AIMP) said, “We have made a representation to government stating that we would pay 33 per cent of the wages to workers and rest amount should be equally divided into state and ESIC.” Industrialists said government should not force industries to pay wages to workers in a scenario when everyone has suffered huge losses. Gautam Kothari, president, Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan said, “As association we have advised our members to look at their book of accounts and pay at least 50 per cent salary to workers. Industries know their social liabilities and but industries needs to be operational to serve workers.” K Kothari also said that labour department should intervene to address the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ficci-urges-state-govt-to-emulate-haryana-msme-revival-model/articleshow/75564236.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Son performs doc father's last rites alone as mom, bro battle corona||Bijnor: The last rites of a local doctor who died of coronavirus late on Monday night were performed by his son on Tuesday as his mother and brother are undergoing treatment at LLRM Medical College in Meerut for the infaction.The funeral was conducted in accordance with WHO norms. The doctor's body was brought to Bijnor from Meerut on Tuesday afternoon.According to officials, the Chandpur-based private doctor tested positive for Covid-19 on April 27. He was admitted in LLRM Medical College in Meerut.The deceased ran a clinic at Shahchandan mohalla in Chandpur town, where a corona patient was traced. It is learnt that the doctor came in contact with him.Health department officials and police put the doctor's family members under quarantine and their samples were sent for testing. Both the doctor's wife and son tested positive.The trio was undergoing treatment in Meerut, where the doctor breathed his last on Monday night.Chief medical officer, Bijnor, Vijay Yadav said,"The body was cremated as per norms. The deceased's son performed his last rites."According to officials, around 1,828 samples were collected for testing. Health department has received reports of 1,419 people. Out of these, 31 tested positive while the outcome of 409 samples is still awaited.According to officials, 20 patients have so far recovered from the infection. One patient has died. There are still 10 active cases in the district.There are 17 hotspots in the district which have been sealed. Police are keeping a close eye on hotspots by deploying drones to check if residents are following lockdown norms.With wife and one son admitted for Covid-19, only one son attends funeral of Bijnor doc who died of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/son-performs-doc-fathers-last-rites-alone-as-mom-bro-battle-corona/articleshow/75563054.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 6, 2020||Pune||Teachers to get special passes for assessing board answer sheets in Pune||PUNE: District and civic authorities have been directed to provide special passes to teachers involved in the assessment of Class X and XII state board exam answer sheets to ensure completion of the assessment process within time. The move follows the Supreme Court’s decision seeking declaration of board examinations’ results before June 10. “Permissions must be given on urgent basis so that answer sheets can be sent to the respective schools/ junior colleges, answer sheets can be taken home by respective teachers for assessment, answer sheets can be taken to moderators post-assessment, moderated answer sheets can be submitted to respective divisional boards and officials appointed by the board can travel to places to inquire about any malpractice that has happened during the examination,” said a letter by additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna to all district collectors and commissioners of the municipal corporations. BK Dahiphale, Pune divisional secretary of the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said, “There is no question of a security breach as nobody can recognise which answer sheet belongs to which student since we have a barcode system. Secondly, as nobody is allowed to venture out, the teacher is least expected to be influenced or visited by anyone while at home or while transporting the answer sheets.” Many teachers and retired officials raised questions regarding the delay in taking this important decision. Vasant Kalpande, a former chairman of the state board, said this was the first time in almost two decades that board had allowed teachers to take the answer sheets home, “As mentioned in the letter, the letter regarding answer-sheet assessment from the state board to the government was sent on April 16. When they know that board results are an urgent issue, why was the decision taken so late, especially in the day and age of the internet where meeting with all officials from different departments was possible at a minute’s notice. Now, these teachers have to apply for police permission, then they will get the answer sheets home, among other formalities. All this could have been done earlier, which would have given them enough time to check the papers.” Uday Nare, a teacher from the Mumbai division, wondered if the assessment process would be completed on time. “I don’t think the result can be declared for both classes before June 10. I think it will take till June end or July first week. Every teacher gets a bunch of about 1,000 answer sheets on an average. S/he checks about 25 papers in a day. After the teachers check the papers, they go to the moderator who re-evaluates all of them. Now, it is not necessary that teachers and moderators are in the same city or even district. The answer sheets with top marks in each subject are then again evaluated by the chief moderator. After all these, internal marks are added and then the process of result preparation starts, all of which are double-checked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-to-get-special-passes-for-assessing-board-answer-sheets/articleshow/75564995.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 6, 2020||Surat||Collector’s record room gutted in Surat||SURAT: Important documents related to the Disturbed Area Act were destroyed in a major fire that broke out in the record room of the district collector’s office at Jilla Seva Sadan on Tuesday morning. Official sources said that about five fire tenders were pushed into service after the fire incident was reported at about noon. The fire personnel had to break open the main door of the record room to gain entry and control the fire. Basant Pareek, chief fire officer (CFO) told TOI, “The record room was closed and few people present at the spot witnessed smoke coming out of the room and that they informed the fire department.” Pareek added, “The fire broke out due to short circuit. The fire tenders were able to douse the fire within 15 minutes.” Sources said that important documents related to the Disturbed Area Act have been destroyed in the fire. A senior officer said, “Due to lockdown, the record room was closed. A meeting of the senior state ministers and officials was being held on the fifth floor when the fire broke out on the third floor. Many important documents of Disturbed Area Act have been destroyed in the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/collectors-record-room-gutted-in-surat/articleshow/75563038.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||De-addicted at maths, alcoholics can’t resist the temptation now||HUBBALLI: For the many Lingayat seers and pontiffs in North Karnataka, the Covid-19 lockdown was the best opportunity to counsel and de-addict alcoholics. Their reinvigorated campaign was successful in spreading happiness in households which otherwise bore the brunt of violence perpetrated by members addicted to liquor. Mallappa (name changed), gained from such counselling. The youth was forced to stay away from alcohol due to the lockdown and started serving at the Dingaleshwar Math in Balehosur. His abstinence ended on Monday when liquor stores reopened after 46 days. “I received nine such complaints in one day from our devotees’ community. Utilising this forced occasion, we had started counselling devotees to de-addict themselves. But our efforts went in vain,” said Dingaleshwar Swami. Like him, many seers and pontiffs also feel that their efforts during the lockdown have gone down the drain. They are unhappy with the government’s decision to reopen liquor shops. These religious leaders were hoping that the government would use this opportunity to ban liquor forever since there was a semblance of peace and prosperity in several homes as alcoholics abandoned their addiction. Guru Mahant Swami of Chittaragi Santhan Math in Inkal said resumption of liquor sale suddenly pushed family members of alcoholics to sufferings. He said there had been incidents when men sold their wife’s saris, mangalsutra and even stole money to buy liquor. “It’s very painful to listen to such stories. Many families once again face domestic problems due to resumption in the sale of liquor,” he said, urging the government to ban liquor. Siddharam Swami of Tontadarya Math in Gadag also made the same demand and urged the government to consider the issue from a social perspective rather than economic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/de-addicted-at-maths-alcoholics-cant-resist-the-temptation-now/articleshow/75561627.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Man kills self in police lock-up||RAJKOT: A 58-year-old man, who was arrested for domestic violence, hanged himself to death in the toilet of Rajkot Taluka police station’s lockup after Monday midnight. The deceased, Vinu Parmar, was arrested following an application of complaint given by his wife Rama on Monday morning. Post-midnight, he went inside the toilet in the lock-up and hanged himself with the door stopper using a handkerchief. Cops got suspicious as he did not come out for nearly an hour. On breaking into the toilet, they found his body. Police said Parmar was also arrested on February 29 for molesting a nine-year-old girl in Bhimnagar locality where he lived. He was booked under sections of Pocso Act, but released on bail around 20 days ago. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that Parmar feared that his bail in Pocso case would also be cancelled after being arrested for domestic violence. This may have driven him to suicide,” said JV Dhola, police inspector, Taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-kills-self-in-police-lock-up/articleshow/75563070.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nashik||57 liquor shop owners, operators booked||NASHIK: The Nashik city police on Monday booked 57 liquor shop owners and operators for not adhering to the guidelines issued by the state government and the district collector regarding measures to be taken in view of Covid-19 outbreak. The shopkeepers concerned were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) and other sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The Mhasrool police, Deolali Camp police and Satpur police took action against two shopkeepers each, Adgaon police, Indiranagar police and the Mumbai Naka police took action against three liquor shop owners each, Bhadrakali police, Sakharwada police took action against four shop owners, Gangapur police and Upanagar police took action against five shopkeepers each, Ambad police took action against seven. The Panchavati police took action against eight shopkeepers while the Nashik Road police took action against nine liquor shop owners. On Monday, liquor shops were allowed to re-open. They were instructed to follow certain norms like not letting more than five people gather at the counter, maintaining distance of six feet between two customers, sanitize the shop area after every two hours, make available hand-rub sanitizers in sufficient quantity for the customers, etc. Police officials said that the aforesaid shopkeepers were found guilty of not adhering to any of the norms they were asked to follow, following which they were booked under different sections of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. Police forced the shopkeepers to down their shutters after they found that the queues were stretching to more than a kilometer at many places. The norm of maintaining distance of six feet between two customers was not followed at any liquor shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/57-liquor-shop-owners-operators-booked/articleshow/75563061.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||22 TJs return to their states, 54 more left in city||Nagpur: Stranded due to lockdown and a few because of Covid-19 infection, Tablighi Jamaatis (TJ) have started to return to their respective states. While 22 TJs have returned, 54 others are awaiting permission.Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel and his team is pursuing the matter. “Collector Ravindra Thakre is giving positive response to applications and allowing TJs’ return. Group of eight TJs from Jabalpur returned immediately after seven of them were discharged from the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH). A group of 10 TJs from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, also left to their hometown a day ago in two four-wheelers. Three TJs of Sargaon in Chhattisgarh also left a day ago. One TJ from Shahdol in Madhya Pradesh left on Tuesday,” he said.Seven Jabalpur-based TJs had tested positive. Guntur TJs were on their way back from Rajasthan when they were stopped by police at Saoner on April 3. They were quarantined at Lonara college and tested negative.Patel told TOI, “Guntur TJs had been quarantined in Rajasthan before they were given permission to travel to their hometown. They faced testing and quarantine twice.”Sargaon TJs had been quarantined at Lonara and were negative. A TJ from Shahdol had tested positive and was discharged from IGGMCH on Tuesday.Patel also said, “33 TJs from New Delhi had arrived here in three groups on February 28, March 2 and 6. Eleven from Manipur are here since March 3. Their applications seeking permission to leave the city will be submitted on Wednesday.”A group of 8 TJs from Myanmar is also staying in the city and going through legal course.Apart from all these, a TJ couple of Chandrapur, which had returned from Indonesia and Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, are under institutional quarantine at Vanamati. The duo had tested positive, completed 14-day isolation treatment at GMCH and also 14-day ‘home quarantine’ in Vanamati. They are yet to get permission to return to their hometown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/22-tjs-return-to-their-states-54-more-left-in-city/articleshow/75564240.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Amanmani Tripathi, aides granted bail by Bijnor court, quarantined for 14 days||BIJNOR/DEHRADUN: In a case involving arrest of independent UP MLA Amanmani Tripathi and six of his aides for violating lockdown and trying to travel to Badrinath and Kedarnath on a false pretext, a court in UP’s BIjnor granted them bail, following which, they were quarantined in the district for 14 days. Bijnor superintendent of police Sanjeev Tyagi said, “Their samples will be collected and sent for tests. If they test negative for novel coronavirus, they will be released.” The MLA’s lawyer, SK Babli, said, "The CJM’s court on Tuesday granted bail to Tripathi and his friends on a personal bond of Rs 20,000. He had a pass for Uttrakhand but did not have one for travelling in UP.” The MLA had claimed that he was crossing the border to perform post-cremation rites of UP CM Yogi Adityanath's father, Anand Singh Bisht, who had passed away recently. The UP CM’s family, however, refuted the claim. Yogi Adityanath’s younger brother Mahendra Singh Bisht told TOI, “We do not know him. We are also not aware who gave him the permission to travel. The family members are carrying out the post-cremation rituals of our father at our native Panchur village in Pauri district.” The UP government had earlier issued a clarification saying that neither had the CM authorised Tripathi to go to Uttarakhand on his behalf nor had the state government given him permission to do so. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government on Tuesday said it will wait for the police report before taking any action. Asked about a letter signed by Uttarakhand additional chief secretary Om Prakash to the Dehradun district magistrate (a copy of which is with TOI) asking him to grant Tripathi and his aides permission to travel to the shrine towns, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “Law will take its course and we will wait for the police report. The matter is being probed by Uttarakhand police.” According to sources, the legislator and his aides had started from Dehradun on May 2 and crossing two districts — Tehri and Pauri Garhwal—had on Sunday reached Gauchar in Chamoli district with the intention of proceeding towards Badrinath when a team of officials stopped them. A police team at the Muni-ki-Reti checkpost in Rishikesh had intercepted the three vehicles and an FIR under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act was registered against the MLA and his aides for the violation of lockdown. UP Police was also informed. They were later arrested in Najibabad town of Bijnor district in UP and booked under sections 268 (public nuisance), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, section 51 of Disaster Management Act and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amanmani-tripathi-aides-granted-bail-by-bijnor-court-quarantined-for-14-days/articleshow/75563093.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Desilting begins in Delhi, it’s a race against time||NEW DELHI: Busy with the Covid-19 containment drive for the past few months, the civic bodies have finally started the work to desilt drains before the monsoon. The three municipal corporations, the public works department and other related agencies have taken permission from Delhi government and will remove silt regularly from roadsides to avoid unhygienic condition. Residents in several areas have also urged the agencies to intensify spraying of disinfectants to control mosquito breeding and vector-borne diseases. An East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) official said the work had started with drains below 4 feet in Dilshad Garden and Shahdara. “We submitted our plan to the principal secretary of the urban development department and also took permission from three district magistrates for the work. Our department is ensuring silt is removed regularly,” he said. On Tuesday, TOI found desilting work being carried out in central Delhi’s Paharganj and Karol Bagh, and east Delhi’s Loni Road and some areas near Swami Dayanand Hospital. Last month, Delhi government held a meeting with various department and agency officials. In the meeting, headed by UD principal secretary Rajiv Yaduvanshi, the agencies said the work had been delayed due to the lockdown. An official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said 243 drains were more than 4ft deep and machines had been deployed at Chirag Delhi Nullah, August Kranti Marg drain near Siri Fort Auditorium, Vasant Vihar, Greater Kailash, RK Puram and other places. It plans to finish the work by May 15. But residents are doubtful as the work usually gets over by the first week of June even when it starts in March. “This year no work started till April end. We are already facing mosquito problems,” said a GK resident. “The process of spraying insecticides was affected after the staff got diverted for the anti-virus drive. But since last Sunday, we have told them to simultaneously spray insecticides,” said Sandeep Kapoor, standing committee chairman of EDMC. As per SDMC’s latest report, released on Monday, 16 malaria and 13 dengue cases have been reported in Delhi this year against two malaria and eight dengue cases till this time in 2019. Chikungunya cases have also increased from four to 10. Till May 2, domestic mosquito breeding checkers have visited 29.5 lakh houses against 91.4 lakh during the same period in 2019. Similarly, 36,000 houses have been sprayed in comparison to 2.2 lakh in 2019 and the corporations have taken up only 1,183 violation cases against 8,347 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desilting-begins-its-a-race-against-time/articleshow/75565001.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||We cannot afford to wait for a train, so we left for MP on foot: Migrants||NAVI MUMBAI: A few migrants from Pune who had begun to walk down to Panna district in Madhya Pradesh reached Navi Mumbai during their long journey home on Tuesday. “We did water-proofing work in buildings in Pune. After the lockdown was extended, we ran out of money and there was limited food available. We thus decided to start walking home,” said Rakesh Sahu, one of the workers. Another member of the group said he had around Rs 15,000 at the start of the lockdown 40 days ago. “Now it is gone. We did fill up the inter-state travel forms in Pune but the long queues for getting the forms and then for submission got us worried. We were anxious about when we would get the chance to travel by a train to our state. Daily food supplies offered were not enough. So, we are determined to somehow reach MP on foot. If we get a lift from any private vehicle en route, we will be grateful.” Several other migrants with children from Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were also seen walking along the Sion-Panvel Road on Tuesday under the hot May sun. On Monday night, a Pune-based migrant, his wife and two daughters who had come to Thane for medical reasons just before the lockdown, were seen walking back to their district. “My wife Vaishali had to undergo a post-pregnancy operation in Thane, and so we put up with a relative in Kalwa. After 40 days of the lockdown, we realized there was not much food left for us or for the relative in Kalwa,” said Balaji Suryawanshi, aconstruction worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/we-cannot-afford-to-wait-for-a-train-so-we-left-for-mp-on-foot/articleshow/75566305.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC notice to centre, state over NMC’s continuation of restrictions||Nagpur: A day after five lawyers challenged the civic chief’s lockdown extension notification of Sunday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the respondents, including the centre and state governments, asking them to reply by Thursday.While quoting the petitioners’ contentions on rights, power and jurisdiction under which the stringent restrictions prevailing in Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon and Pimpri Chinchwad, were extended in the city, justice Anil Kilor also issued notices to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner and the collector asking them to file an affidavit before the next hearing.The petitioners — Shreerang Bhandarkar, Kishor Lambat, Kamal Satuja, Prakash Jaiswal and Manoj Sable — contended that the commissioner’s notification extending restrictions for the non-essential products, including liquor, was issued in complete breach of Friday’s government orders.Their counsel, Shyam Dewani, contended that the municipal commissioner usurped powers of the district collector and passed orders contrary to guidelines issued by the centre and state governments through separate notifications. “As far as stand-alone shops and those in residential colonies are concerned, guidelines issued by the both governments are absolutely clear. However, exceeding his jurisdiction, the commissioner is not even permitting opening of such shops and offices, in their breach,” said Dewani.While demanding quashing of the civic chief’s notification, Dewani further argued that no major Covid-19 cases are coming out, except from containment areas. Therefore, there isn’t any need to close all the non-essential shops in the other city areas that is leading to several problems faced by citizens.“The government specifically excluded containment zones of Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions along with the Malegaon Municipal Corporation from lockdown relaxation. It permitted partial resumption of normal life allowing reopening of certain shops and services in other areas. However, by ignoring NMC’s own data about containment of Covid-19 cases within four specified areas of Central and East Nagpur, the commissioner issued notification,” said Dewani.He further pointed out that both the governments already laid down guidelines under the National Disaster Management Act based on the directives of National Disaster Management Authority and took a decision to permit opening of non-essential shops and offices. “The commissioner, however, wrongly assumed that the state’s notification is issued under the Epidemic Act and by passed the guidelines in excess of his powers and jurisdiction, while continuing restrictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-notice-to-centre-state-over-nmcs-continuation-of-restrictions/articleshow/75564249.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||3 new cases, more relaxations in state||Thiruvananthapuram: Only three positive cases were reported from Wayanad on Tuesday; all three were direct contacts of a truck driver who had tested positive after returning to Mananthavady from Chennai. The three positive cases are mother and wife of the driver and the third one is the son of the truck cleaner. However no samples tested negative on Tuesday. As many as 37 active cases are being treated in various hospitals. Till date, 502 positive cases were reported in state and 21,342 persons are now under surveillance. Of this lot, 21,034 are under home isolation and 308 are admitted in designated isolation facilities.Till date, 33,800 samples (including augmented samples) have been sent for testing, of which 33,265 tested negative. Apart from this, 2,512 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers, etc as part of sentinel surveillance, of which 1,979 samples tested negative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at present four districts were Covid-free and no new hotspots were added. He said all restrictions imposed on private vehicles have been lifted and hence there will be no odd-even number restrictions to ply on roads.All private offices can function provided social distancing and safety norms are followed. Doctors of both government and private hospitals, employees of IT firms, Isro employees, Kudumbashree and health workers, government and private sector employees need not apply for pass from the police to travel in districts. The identity cards of their respective departments or organizations are enough for their travel. However, they will not be allowed to travel between 7pm and 7am. Only emergency services will be allowed to operate vehicles during this time. Though police are issuing passes for inter district travel, no passes will be allowed to travel to red zones and also containment zones. Passes will not be issued for daily inter-district travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-new-cases-more-relaxations-in-state/articleshow/75561623.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||IMD allays cyclone fear in state||Bhubaneswar: The India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Tuesday dispelled all fears of a cyclone in Odisha in the next few days. It clarified that the low pressure area over South Andaman Sea will not have any impact over Odisha. “We studied all models available with us and concluded that the low-pressure area over the Andaman Sea is not likely to intensify further, said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of IMD. “It is very likely to persist meandering over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal during the next four days without any further intensification, the IMD bulletin clarified. However, several districts of Odisha, including Deogarh, Angul, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, Balasore, Cuttack and Bhadrak are likely to witness heavy rainfall and gusty surface wind up to 40 to 50 km per hour in the next 48 hours.  Besides, light to moderate rainfall will continue in most parts of the state till May 10. “Though one or two places in several districts of the state will get rainfall and thundershowers, these are due to Norwesters and not due to low pressure of cyclonic circulation. This is a common phenomenon in summer,” said H R Rahman, director of IMD’s Bhubaneswar centre. Light to moderate rainfall with thundershowers has occurred both in North and South Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/imd-allays-cyclone-fear-in-state/articleshow/75561644.cms||Minati Singha
May 6, 2020||Pune||NDA honours Major Sood at Hut of Remembrance||PUNE: The National Defence Academy (NDA) organized a wreath-laying ceremony at the Hut of Remembrance (HoR) in honour of Major Anuj Sood, who was killed during counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir on May 2. The Commandant NDA, Lt Gen Asit Mistry, paid homage to Major Anuj Sood in the solemn ceremony, on behalf of officers and the NDA fraternity. Major Anuj Sood was an alumnus of NDA, who had graduated as part of the 120th course in June 2011. He was a second generation Army officer and was commissioned in the 19th Battalion of the Brigade of the Guards. His course mates remembered Major Sood as a perfect Army officer. “He was a sincere and down-to-earth person. Even though he was a second generation officer, he never displayed it in his demeanour at the academy. He always strived hard to learn new things and was actively involved in sports too,” recalled a course mate, who is serving in the Infantry unit of the Indian Army. He was part of 21 Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir during the recent operation. “Demonstrating unparalleled courage and exceptional devotion to duty while making the supreme sacrifice, Major Anuj Sood has lived up to the motto of NDA ‘service before self’. Today as his name gets etched in the four walls of sanctum sanctorum of HoR, his martyrdom will continue to inspire future generations of NDA cadets,” a statement released by the academy said. A senior officer of the academy, who didn't wish to be named, said, “The supreme sacrifice of the officer always becomes a source of inspiration for the next generation officers, squadron mates of the academy and they strive hard to keep it as the rich legacy of the squadron forever. That’s the tradition being followed in the academy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nda-honours-major-sood-at-hut-of-remembrance/articleshow/75564998.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat farmer ends life due to financial crunch||RAJKOT: Fed up of severe financial crunch, a farmer committed suicide in Jalandhar village of Junagadh district's Maliya-Hatina taluka on Tuesday. Bhikha Madhak, 60, was found hanging by the electricity pole in his farm. Police found a suicide note on Madhak which stated that he was taking the drastic step as he was fed up of financial crunch. He also urged police not to harass his family members. Madhak had left for his farm at around 6:30am. His body was found by his son Praful who informed police. Investigating officer NN Dangar of Maliya-Hatina police station said that Madhak was a marginal farmer with small land holding. "Also, his was a big family," added Dangar. Dangar said they are yet to ascertain if he was carrying any debt burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-farmer-ends-life-due-to-financial-crunch/articleshow/75563105.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||We cannot afford to wait for a train, so we left for MP on foot: Migrants||NAVI MUMBAI: A few migrants from Pune who had begun to walk down to Panna district in Madhya Pradesh reached Navi Mumbai during their long journey home on Tuesday. “We did water-proofing work in buildings in Pune. After the lockdown was extended, we ran out of money and there was limited food available. We thus decided to start walking home,” said Rakesh Sahu, one of the workers. Another member of the group said he had around Rs 15,000 at the start of the lockdown 40 days ago. “Now it is gone. We did fill up the inter-state travel forms in Pune but the long queues for getting the forms and then for submission got us worried. We were anxious about when we would get the chance to travel by a train to our state. Daily food supplies offered were not enough. So, we are determined to somehow reach MP on foot. If we get a lift from any private vehicle en route, we will be grateful.” Several other migrants with children from Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were also seen walking along the Sion-Panvel Road on Tuesday under the hot May sun. On Monday night, a Pune-based migrant, his wife and two daughters who had come to Thane for medical reasons just before the lockdown, were seen walking back to their district. “My wife Vaishali had to undergo a post-pregnancy operation in Thane, and so we put up with a relative in Kalwa. After 40 days of the lockdown, we realized there was not much food left for us or for the relative in Kalwa,” said Balaji Suryawanshi, aconstruction worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/we-cannot-afford-to-wait-for-a-train-so-we-left-for-mp-on-foot/articleshow/75564251.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid -ve woman turns +ve taking care of +ve daughter||Nagpur: A 35-year-old healthy woman from Satranjipura, who had got admitted herself in IGGMCH Covid-19 isolation ward on April 20 to look after her 11-year-old positive daughter, has now caught the infection. Fortunately for the mom, her daughter is now negative and has been discharged. The woman will have to spend at least 14 more days in the isolation ward.TOI on April 22 had reported about the woman admitting herself for her daughter’s sake. Her report came negative on April 21, a day after she was admitted, but she remained in hospital to be with her daughter.The woman is only person to be tested positive from the district on Tuesday, taking the total to 161 and Satranjipura’s tally to 102.The woman was staying with 27 positive persons, including her daughter, in the isolation ward since April 20. She did not get any special room or ward despite testing negative. The woman and her daughter were asymptomatic. She was tested along with her daughter on Monday as she was staying in the isolation ward for 15 days.The woman told TOI, “I requested doctors here to also give me medicines and test my samples. I would have tested positive earlier.”Though she was staying with her daughter, the woman had to share washrooms with other patients. The woman added, “I am worried about my younger daughter who is 7-year-old. The elder daughter is 15-year-old. My husband is at home with three children. They are facing problems in preparing food.”The NMC had quarantined five members of this family as they were neighbours of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura. Only the 11-year-old girl among them had tested positive.A man from Sangam Nagar also reportedly got admitted in the GMCH isolation ward with his seven-year-old positive son on Monday despite being negative. On May 2, another negative woman from Satranjipura had got admitted with her 16-month-old girl (positive) in the IGGMCH isolation ward.Earlier, a woman from Mominpura had got admitted with her five-year-old son even though her reports were awaited. After a day, woman also tested positive.One person from Khamla had stayed with his daughter at IGGMCH Isolation Ward despite having turned negative and recommended for discharge on April 11. In this case, both were positive when they were admitted on March 27. They were discharged on Tuesday.There are no restrictions from the administration or special arrangements at Isolation wards for such persons who get admitted to take care of their very young children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-woman-turns-ve-taking-care-of-ve-daughter/articleshow/75564262.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala yet to ‘recognize’ Mehroof||Kannur: It was on April 11 that Mehroof P (71), a resident of Cherukallayi in Mahe, died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College Kannur, at Pariyaram. But till date there is no clarity as to in which state’s list the death would be included, and the family members are also in a fix as they have not received any clear answer from the authorities so far. Moreover, even now, the authorities have not made any serious effort to ascertain from where he got the infection, they said. When Mehroof was admitted in a super specialty hospital in Kannur, he did not have Covid-19, but after five days the hospital authorities said he tested positive for the infection and was shifted to the medical college, said Mehroof’s son-in-law Najeeb Velikkoth. “After his death, his burial was held as per Covid-19 protocol near Pariyaram itself and we did not make any demand, but we have the right to know two things – in which state is his death accounted for and from where he got the infection, as none of his known contacts have tested positive,” he said. “If the authorities are unable to tell us from where he contracted the disease there are two possibilities, either he was not Covid-19 positive or the authorities are trying to save the hospital where he was admitted for fever on April 1,” said Najeeb. “We have clear evidence that my father-in-law and a Covid-19 patient was admitted to the same ICU for three days, but even now the authorities are not giving a clean answer, and now he is facing disgrace even after his death,” he said. Though the matter of the jurisdiction of the death was brought to the attention of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan health minister K K Shailaja and the Puducherry administration, nobody has given a clear answer and it gives a feeling that he has been orphaned in death, said Mehroof’s son Nadeem S M. Since the death was in Kerala, it should be considered as Covid-19 death in Kerala but it is for the state government to take a decision, said Mahe regional administrator Aman Sharma. “The state surveillance officer has sought a clarification from the central government because this is an interstate issue, and the final decision on this matter would be taken as per the Centre’s direction only,” he said. “Kerala has not included Mehroof’s death in its list of deaths,” said Kannur district collector T V Subhash. However, the inquiry into the source investigation is underway and their concern would be addressed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-yet-to-recognize-mehroof/articleshow/75561668.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Order returns on Day 2 of lockdown 3.0||Bhubaneswar/Cuttack/Sambalpur: After chaos marked Day I of the third phase of lockdown, things were more organised on the second day with several shops in market complexes remaining closed while standalone shops were seen abiding by social distancing norms. Shops selling tea and betel nuts kept the shutters down while those selling groceries and similar shops have drawn circles outside their facilities and were seen asking customers to follow lockdown protocols. “We are ready to cooperate with the administration but they need to be clear in which area they need our cooperation. There were confusions yesterday but today we know what to do. Everyone is terrified of the virus and are ready to do whatever is required to stay safe,” said Bimal Mahapatra, a hardware shop owner near Kochilai Haat in Rasulgarh area of Bhubaneswar. But there were still some who were seen flouting social distancing norms. A range of shops in different parts of the city including those selling motor parts, scrap dealers, sanitary and furniture shops were seen gathering their customers to strike deals. “We have a number of orders which couldn’t be cleared due to the lockdown. As we are open now, customers have started showing up and we have no other option but to talk to them. I asked my customers to maintain distance and everyone is using a mask. I don’t see any threat here,” said the owner of a sanitary shop on Cuttack-Puri Road. Vehicular movement has also gone down in the state capital on Tuesday, but motorists, particularly those on two-wheelers, were seen riding pillion in contravention to the order issued by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Enforcement officials are on move in the city and are penalising those found to be violating the lockdown norms. The commissionerate police is also closing down shops in the evening in line with the curfew norms. The situation is mostly under control,” a senior BMC official said. In Cuttack, where business was almost usual, Barabati Cuttack MLA Mohammed Moquim staged a silent protest inside his residence against the Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) decision to open liquor shops. Though the CMC has allowed opening of liquor shops, no shop has started opened yet. Moquim said opening of liquor shops is the biggest threat to family life during the lockdown period. “More and more people will now consume liquor which will aggravate domestic violence in such a difficult time,” he said. Sambalpur, which witnessed a slow start to the third phase of lockdown, was buzzing with activities on Tuesday after the district administration made the relaxation guidelines public on Monday evening. Though Sambalpur district has been catagorised as green zone, activities largely remained suspended due to confusion on the first day of the third phase of lockdown. Apart from the shops selling essential commodities, many other business establishments including garment stores, shops selling jewellery, footwear shops, steel and aluminium utensils, sanitary, hardware stores, electronics and electrical fittings, computer and mobile stores as well as stationary shops were found opened in the city on Tuesday. Though the buses did not ply, auto-rickshaws were seen moving on the roads. Many people were also seen coming out of their houses wearing masks to purchase necessary items. The district administration has issued notice that shops and market establishments can remain open from 7 am to 2 pm. This apart, grocery stories and milk booths can remain open from 7 am to 2 pm and 4 pm to 7 pm. Earlier, they were allowed to stay open from 7 am to 12 noon. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/order-returns-on-day-2-of-lockdown-3-0/articleshow/75561663.cms||Sandip Mishra
May 6, 2020||Nashik||Pregnant woman who died at civil hospital tests coronavirus positive||NASHIK: The 20-year-old pregnant woman, who died within hours of admission to the Nashik civil hospital on May 2, has tested positive for Covid-19, marking the first death in the city due to the contagion and taking the total number of such fatalities in the district to 13, 12 in Malegaon alone. District civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said the woman was eight months pregnant and was suffering from some heart problem and died in less than two hours after being admitted to the hospital. “The woman was in a critical condition and was initially taken to the labour room. When her condition started deteriorating, she was shifted to the emergency ward and then to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where she died,” a senior medical officer of the Nashik civil hospital said. A statement from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that the woman had come to Nashik from Sinnar for delivery around a month ago. On April 24, the woman had gone to a civic-run hospital for routine check-up. Since she was suffering from high blood pressure, she was referred to the Vasantrao Pawar Medical College and Hospital for further examination. But she did not go to the hospital and stayed home without any medication or further treatment. About a week ago, her brother-in-law, who lived in a containment area in Mumbai and was home quarantined there, managed to reach Nashik to inquire about her health. On May 2, the woman started experiencing pain and breathlessness, following which she was taken to the civil hospital where she breathed her last. Soon after it was confirmed that the woman was Covid-19 positive, the NMC sealed the Bajrangwadi area , where the woman lived, and declared it a containment zone. “The civic health teams are searching the contacts of the deceased woman. It has once again been proven that people from outside Nashik are the cause of spread of Covid-19 in the city,” said a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pregnant-woman-who-died-at-civil-hosp-tests-positive/articleshow/75563142.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Illegal colonies: DDA to resume inspection||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is gearing up to resume inspection of properties in 1,731 unauthorised colonies by surveyors after the lockdown for conferring ownership rights to residents of these colonies under the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY). “The work of physically surveying the properties cannot be carried out during the lockdown as surveyors wouldn’t be able to get the geo-coordinates of the properties. However, survey work would be resumed immediately after the lockdown with due precautions and keeping safety of both residents and surveyors in mind,” a DDA official said. “The authority, however, was working on war footing to complete all backend and online work during the lockdown,” he said. “We were providing complete online service under the scheme for granting ownership rights and all processing work was going on at full pace,” he said. According to DDA, total 2.57 lakh registrations had been completed on the DDA portal created for PM-UDAY and GIS mapping of 70,000 properties had been done. DDA had received 4,900 completed applications. During the lockdown, DDA’s four processing centres at Dwarka, Pitampura, Hauz Khas and Laxmi Nagar had been operational. Apart from resuming inspections of properties by surveyors, DDA would also carry out the execution of authorisation slip or conveyance deed of properties for which all due process had been completed. The Centre had in October 2019 approved the proposal to grant ownership rights to residents of the 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/illegal-colonies-dda-to-resume-inspection/articleshow/75565007.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Dial a psychologist to beat lockdown blues||KOLKATA: The state government has started a tele-counselling facility to help people who are either under institutional quarantine or in-home isolation to deal with the stress. The counselling facility has been extended to people in quarantine or who are confined at home due to the lockdown. Mental health experts said that reaching out to people under stress was the need of the hour. “This is a right step because the amount of stress people are going through during this pandemic, whether one is Covid-19 positive, a suspect or others,” said Sanjay Garg consultant Mental Health and behavioural sciences at Fortis Hospital Anandapur. “In case of people in home isolation or at quarantine centres, the stress could range from the fear or uncertainty of being infected to the inability to meet their family members,” he added. Garg has been regularly counselling Covid patients to allay their fear and anxiety. On Tuesday, the state health department issued a circular on its decision to reach out to those stressed. Accordingly, the department has drawn up a list of professional psychologists to provide counselling over phone free of cost. The [person will have to book a slot when the counsellor can reach out to him or her. According to mental health professionals, the lockdown has turned life topsy-turvy for many. Specially working women are at the receiving end. They are now working from home and are having to take additional charge of the household chores while dealing with children, who, too, are under stress. Doctors said even healthcare professionals are under a lot of stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dial-a-psychologist-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75565004.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sassoon hospital to check minor for termination of 23-week fetus||PUNE: The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed a state-appointed committee, headed by the dean of the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune, to expeditiously examine a 16-year-old survivor of sexual abuse and submit a report by May 8 on the safety of medical termination of her pregnancy. The bench of Justice S C Gupte sought expeditious action, observing that on the date the petition was filed, the survivor was already 23 weeks pregnant and one more week has since passed. “In the peculiar facts and circumstances....and having regard to the averments in the petition and the materials produced therewith, this court is of the view that a court appointed committee in accordance with the orders passed so far by this court and also directives issued by the state government should immediately look into the matter and report on the safety of medical termination of pregnancy in the case,” the bench said. The petitioner’s lawyer submitted the patient (survivor) would attend examination before Sassoon hospital committee by Wednesday to facilitate its report by the next date. The bench directed the representing lawyers to communicate its order to the Sassoon authorities without waiting for an authenticated copy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-to-check-minor-for-termination-of-23-wk-fetus/articleshow/75565002.cms||Vishwas Kothari
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Electric current killed bats in Meerut: IVRI report||MEERUT: Days after several bat carcasses were found near a pond at Mehroli village in Meerut's Partapur region, their post-mortem report revealed a "strong electric current" as cause of death. The report was prepared by Bareilly-based Indian Veterniary Research Institute(IVRI). Eight bats were found dead on two consecutive days near a pond at Mehroli village, situated on the outskirts of Meerut city. "Earlier, we had thought that excessive spraying of pesticides on fruit trees in the nearby orchards could have caused these deaths. We had sent the viscera to the IVRI, which negated our claims and attributed the deaths to strong electric shock. Now, we are investigating if there is any electric cable passing through the area," said divisional forest officer (DFO), Meerut, Aditi Sharma. Ever since Covid-19 pandemic broke out, there is a popular theory that the virus is zoonotic and could have been transmitted from bats to humans, which has resulted in a considerable amount of hatred for these nocturnal mammals. Village pradhan Ganga Ram, however, is unconvinced with the IVRI report. "The nearest power line is at least half a kilometer from the site where the carcasses were found. Had they died of an electric shock, their remains would have found near the line and not so far away. How is it possible that for two consecutive days, bats were falling dead and, suddenly, everything became alright? It was definitely some kind of mischief and deeper investigation is needed," said Ganga Ram. Bird scientists, however, do not rule out the possibility of killing having taken place. "Of late, bats have been subjected to a kind of media-driven hate campaign and one cannot rule out the possibility of their killings. But that is for investigative agencies to find out in this particular case," said Rajat Bhargava, senior scientist at Bombay Natural History Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/electric-current-killed-bats-ivri-report/articleshow/75563150.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 6, 2020||India||Hacker points at Aarogya app ‘flaw’, govt junks claim||NEW DELHI: Ethical hacker Elliot Alderson tweeted on Tuesday that the privacy of 90 million Indians was at stake as there is a "security flaw" in India's contact tracing application, Aarogya Setu. However, a senior government official dismissed his claims. “There is no security gap or data breach. It is a non-issue,” he said. Alderson had posted from his handle @fs0c131y around 8.40pm, “Hi @SetuAarogya, A security issue has been found in your app. The privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake. Can you contact me in private?” About 50 minutes later, he tweeted again, “@IndianCERT and @NICMeity contacted me. Issue has been disclosed to them.” Alderson had ended his first tweet saying, “PS: @Rahul Gandhiwas right.” He was referring to the Congress leader’s May 2 post where he had described Aarogya Setu as a "sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator." His allegations had been countered by at least two union ministers: Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar.  Reacting to Alderson, another senior official said that “the app is not a surveillance tool. Rather, it is a tool that can save lives. You are fighting a relentless virus. So don't get confused or distracted.” "We are confident there is no security breach. The app has undergone the most stringent security checks. We are always looking at suggestions to further strengthen it. Our team deals with several such suggestions every day. There are regular checks," the official further said. He also said that the product team of the Aarogya Setu app will soon put out a tweet making it clear that there is no data breach or security gap in the app. Alderson had leaked thousands of Aadhaar details online in March 2018 to draw attention to its security flaws to officials. He had tagged the official handle of the UIADAI, providing details of loopholes in the database. Around 1am on Wednesday, Aarogya Setu's verified Twitter handle posted a statement, confirming that an ethical hacker had approached them, but added that "no personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk." "Team Aarogya Setu assures everyone that no data or security breach has been identified," the statement read. It confirmed that the hacker had pointed out "potential security flaws", including gathering location data of users. But according to the statement, this choice was by design and is mentioned in the privacy policy of the application. According to the privacy policy, the app collects location data at the time of registration, self-assessment and when a user "submits their contact tracing data voluntarily". Alderson replied to this tweet, saying, "Basically, you said "nothing to see here". We will see. I will come back to you tomorrow."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hacker-points-at-aarogya-app-flaw-govt-junks-claim/articleshow/75565752.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 6, 2020||Meerut||Four murders in 24 hours rock Meerut zone||MEERUT: Despite the strict surveillance due to the lockdown, four murders were reported in Meerut zone on Tuesday, from Meerut, Bulandshahar, Saharanpur and Baghpat districts. These followed days after senior zonal officers had claimed that crime rate had nosedived because of the lockdown. In Baghpat, Yashpal (40) was on his way to his farm when he was attacked and brutally hacked to death with a spade by unidentified assailants on Tuesday morning. Local police has begun investigation and is claiming fallout of an ongoing rivalry as the murder motive. In Bulandshahar’s Mahav village, Vinod was returning from his farm on Monday night when he was attacked with a spade, and succumbed to his injuries there. According to police, the incident was fallout of a monetary dispute between Vinod and Kaushendra, who has been arrested. “There was dispute between Vinod and the accused, Kaushendra, over Rs 5,000, which the former had borrowed from the latter. An argument ensued, following which Kaushendra attacked Vinod with a spade,” said Bulandshahar SSP Santosh Kumar. In the third case, a man was stabbed to death in Badagaon, Saharanpur on Monday night. Prima facie, police claimed the murder followed a dispute between victim Aashan and another local Bhura and his aides, who were most likely inebriated. Details of the fourth murder, in Meerut, were not available at the time of going to press. According to senior police officials in the districts, investigation has begun in all the cases, and police is trying to intercept the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-murders-in-24-hrs-rock-meerut-zone/articleshow/75563173.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Addicts kill man for nicotine||RAJKOT: Nicotine addicts killed a man for not sharing tobacco with others in Wanakner town of Morbi district on Saturday. The two accused, who killed 35-year-old Hasmukh Mandaliya, a resident of Nava Para over a petty issue, were arrested by the police on Tuesday. The police earlier found a body from the river belt of Macchu in the wee hours of Sunday with its face and head smashed. Deceased Mandaliya had gone to the river belt after dinner on Saturday night and was chewing tobacco, said police. Based on the information, cops arrested Chagan Vaghela (28) and Narsinh Vaghela (30) on Tuesday. The duo confessed that they were having tobacco cravings and so asked Mandaliya to share some. “When he denied sharing his tobacco, the accused lost their temper and smashed his face and head with a stone,” said V B Jadeja police inspector of local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/addicts-kill-man-for-nicotine/articleshow/75563168.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Periyar pollution: KWA’s plant had to be halted thrice in 1 mth||Kochi: When many rivers across the country as well as the state witnessed less pollution post lockdown, Periyar continued to make headlines for its never-ending pollution problem. Supply of water from KWA’s treatment plant at Aluva had to be stopped for six hours a fortnight ago following heavy pollution and discoloration of water, while the utility’s plant at Chembaracky between Aluva and Perumbavoor had to be stopped three times in the past one month due to heavy pollution of the river. Apart from the pollution beyond Muttar and Eloor areas, the river was being polluted in the upstream Aluva region where major water treatment plants supply water to different parts of the district catering to potable water needs. This raises serious issues related to drinking water pollution. “We had to stop treatment of water at our plant for six hours a fortnight ago due to high rate of pollution and discolouration of water. Though pollution downstream Aluva is a regular issue, it is now that we notice such pollution upstream Aluva,” an official with KWA’s treatment plant at Aluva said. “The colour river water was dark. We noticed it on time and stopped pumping. Otherwise, the contaminated water would have polluted even the treatment plant. In that case, we should have cleaned the entire system,” the official said. A few days ago, KWA officials along with the officials from the pollution control board (PCB) and Vazhakkulam grama panchayat conducted inspection along the stretch from Marampilly and Kunnuzhay near Perumbavoor. “We had to stop supply from our plant thrice in the past eight weeks. At first, we had to go for shutting down and cleaning the machineries after contaminated water affected the system. We could resume pumping only after three days. In second and third time, we noticed the pollution within minutes and stopped pumping immediately,” an official with KWA’s treatment plant at Chembaracky said. The plant, with a capacity to pump 15-million litre a day (MLD), caters to the drinking water needs of panchayats like Vazhakkulam, Kizhakkambalam and Kunnathunad. When the officials conducted inspection, it was found that the origin of foam and discolouration was from a private factory near Vazhakkulam. Residents alleged that the pollution was caused by the private factor which linked its effluent pipes to the river. Though TOI tried to contact PCB officials, they were unavailable over phone. According to environmentalists, factories and commercial establishments on the banks of the river continue to discharge effluents into the river. “Many slaughter houses and fish vending stalls in Aluva and Kalady markets still drain out waste water into the river. Moreover, many plywood factories and other companies near Perumbavoor too discharge their effluent into the river. That’s the reason behind continuing pollution of Periyar while pollution levels of other rivers in the state and country decreased significantly during lockdown,” said S Sitaraman, environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/periyar-pollution-kwas-plant-had-to-be-halted-thrice-in-1-mth/articleshow/75554203.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam migrants booked for fleeing quarantine centres||BERHAMPUR/JHARSUGUDA: Police have registered cases against the migrant workers, who had escaped from two quarantine centres in Beguniapada block in Ganjam district on Sunday by violating the Covid-19 regulations. “We have registered two separate cases against 12 persons in this connection in the police station at Kodala,” said SP (Ganjam) Brijesh Rai. He said the cases were registered against them under different sections of IPC, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act. The cases were registered on the basis of complaints by the local tehsildar, police said. Over 200 migrant workers who were kept under quarantine at Janata high school, Beguniapada, and Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya, Ragapur, near Beguniapada, fled the centres on Sunday morning, alleging that there were no basic facilities available in the centres. Almost all of them were found later with the help of locals after frantic manhunt by police and some other officers. Almost all of them were brought back to the centres, said an officer. Around 360 migrant labourers were kept in the two quarantine centres on Saturday after they returned from Surat. Next day morning, they created nuisance in the centres, alleging there were no basic facilities and food was inadequate. They also threatened the nodal officers in the centres when the latter tried to convince them, an official said. The inmates of some other quarantine centres, including Gokarnapur and Satrushol also alleged lack of facilities in the quarantine centres. Local block development officers and tehsildars rushed to the centres and tried to convince them. The administration rubbished the allegations. “The allegations are not true. We are trying to convince the inmates to maintain disciple while in the quarantine,” an officer said. Meanwhile, distict collector Vijay Amruta Kulange warned of stringent action against the persons who crate indiscipline in the quarantine centres. In Jharsuguda, police on Monday night caught a person on quarantine who fled the quarantine centre at BTM area under Jharsuguda police limits. The man was identified as Asibh, aka Asid Khan, 35, a resident of Kabristhan Para, Jharsuguda, and had returned from Nala Road, Rourkela (Covid-affected area).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-migrants-booked-for-fleeing-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75561675.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Reopening of Tasmac shops: Those who quit drinking will hit the bottle, say docs||Trichy: As Tasmac wine shops were scheduled to reopen on Thursday after more than 40 days, psychiatrists and psychologists are apprehensive about the possible return of alcoholism among those who quit drinking. They also suggested initiating psychological intervention to reduce the number of addicts in the state. Since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25, there was a call for psychological intervention for addicts who suffer from withdrawal symptoms of pneumonia, violence, aggression, trembling, nausea, vomiting, headache, restlessness and agitation. In the past 40 plus days, some of the de-addiction centres have come across such cases. Psychologist S Muthukumar of Sunrise De-addiction Centre in Trichy said his centre received 40 such cases during the lockdown. “My apprehension is not about the alcohol addicts because they have high chances of taking alcohol again. The concern is that social drinkers may become addicts after the reopening of liquor shops,” he said. Quoting surveys, Muthukumar said that the society has 40 % of social drinkers and 5% of dependants. “Social drinkers would have a craving for drinks,” he said. Director of Athma Hospitals, Trichy, Dr K Ramakrishnan said that their centre witnessed very few number of alcohol dependants with withdrawal symptoms during the lockdown. He was of the view that the availability of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) in black market at exorbitant rate and the illicit arrack kept the alcohol dependants high even during the lockdown. “As a psychiatrist, I would prefer total prohibition. If they reopen it, they should restrict the consumption by rationing method,” said Dr Ramakrishnan. Psychiatrist of district mental health program Dr PT Krishnamoorthy of Trichy said, “We have not seen new case of addicts showing withdrawal symptoms. It may be because of stocking up of liquor. Some may take over the counter medication,” he said. Stating that any habit can be overcome if it is controlled for 21 days, clinical psychologist D Randeep Rajkumar said that those with personality disorder would easily give up their willpower and again start drinking. He also put the onus on the state government for the rehabilitation of the alcohol addicts. “While lifting the ban on liquor sale, the government should also give importance for psychological intervention to those on the brink of quitting their addiction. They should create the facility at government hospitals and encourage counsellors on rehabilitation activities,” said Randeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/reopening-of-tasmac-shops-those-who-quit-drinking-will-hit-the-bottle-say-docs/articleshow/75564266.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State to cash in on Covid-19 resistance to woo investors||Thiruvananthapuram: The state is gearing up for a total makeover as an industrial-friendly destination by riding on the recognition it earned internationally for successfully controlling the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.An ordinance that will facilitate to clear all applications for investment in the state within seven days of the date of application is on the anvil. According to top government sources, other than clearing all the applications within seven days, it will also have a clause to provide relief to the investor from the high land value, which is the biggest deterrent for investors in the state. “The government is considering a clause that the investor would only need to pay 20% of the value of land value required for the investor, initially. The remaining 80% can be remitted by him in the next five years as instalments, which would also be interest-free,” sources said.In addition to the ordinance, the government will also set up two committees - an industrial advisory committee and an economic revival committee - that would give recommendations on various sectors and various locations and for measures to find new avenues for revenue generation. According to sources, the industrial advisory committee will soon be set up that will mainly consist of successful entrepreneurs, investment advisers and some policy makers. The finance department is, meanwhile, working on the committee for economic revival.“The state’s successful fight against Covid-19 has proved the institutional and administrative discipline in the state and the consciousness level of the people regarding their health. The state has also proved that it is a destination where the best quality of human resources is available,” said principal secretary (industries) K Ellangovan, who is also the former health secretary of the state.  Kerala will soon be a preferred destination for leading companies in the country because of its excellence in fighting Covid-19, expects the state government. A section of officials also foresee that even those companies which are planning to exit China may evince interest in Kerala. States like Uttar Pradesh have already initiated steps to woo companies that are leaving Chinese base. The state had last year passed the Kerala micro, small and medium enterprises facilitation bill, which allows entrepreneurs to launch an industry with an investment up to Rs 10 crore without the prior sanction of the government.Sources said that primary focus now would be to transform the state to healthcare capital of the country. Industries minister E P Jayarajan has already announced that there would be a lot of possibilities in the industries sector after Covid-19 and there would be opportunities galore for industries for manufacturing medical equipment and medicines.The government is already considering amendment in the relevant land laws for conferring powers for assignment and permitting mortgaging of industrial land on district collectors and general managers of district industries centre, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-to-cash-in-on-covid-19-resistance-to-woo-investors/articleshow/75561706.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Respond to allegations of nixing ration cards: High court to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the state to respond within three days to the allegations that its authorities had cancelled lakhs of ration cards on one hand and on the other hand, are insisting on the production of ration cards to supply rice and other assistance during the current lockdown period. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by social activist SQ Masood. Masood has charged the state with cancelling lakhs of ration cards just days before the lockdown. “This made the lives of many BPL families miserable because they are unable to get rice and money the state gave during the ongoing lockdown period,” Masood said. Advocate General BS Prasad refuted these allegations and said that the court is currently seized of several other petitions that also raised similar concerns. The bench asked its registry to tag all of them and directed the state to file its reply by May 8. Masood also said that the authorities are insisting that migrants should produce Aadhaar cards and ration cards. He wanted the court to direct the state to devise an easy manner that enables people to derive ration and other assistance whenever they are stranded due to lockdown or pandemic. The bench wondered as to why the officials were insisting upon production of ration cards and other documents during the current crisis. They also sought to know from the state as to how it is reaching out to its own people and the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-t-respond-to-allegations-of-nixing-ration-cards/articleshow/75564277.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Rural Vadodara is Covid-free||VADODARA: Even as Vadodara city continued to witness a spike in cases of coronavirus, rural areas of Vadodara district have become Covid-free, at least for now. On Tuesday, a 21-year-old patient got discharged from Parul Sevashram Hospital after her repeat tests came negative. Vasvi Patel, a resident of nursing quarters of Limda-based hospital, was the last patient from Vadodara rural, who was under treatment. “We had 11 patients of whom nine recovered while two passed away in the course of their treatment. Currently, there is no patient from Vadodara rural, who is under treatment at any hospital,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara district. Of the 11 Covid-19 positive cases, two were from nearby Ankodiya village, two from Limda (Waghodiya), three from Dabhoi and one each from Sevasi village, Vasna-Bhayli Road, Padra’s Chokari village and Karjan taluka’s Methi village. Except the victims from Chokari and Methi villages, all other patients have fully recovered. “A total of 1,046 samples were collected from the rural areas of which 11 had tested positive,” said Tilawat. On Tuesday, around 59 samples were collected by the health teams, results of which are pending. These included 24 from Vadodara taluka, 15 from Shinor taluka and 10 each from Padra and Dabhoi talukas. “Based on district collector’s directives, we have started notifying all registered medical practitioners in rural areas as designated Covid consultants,” he said, adding that this will help in providing home-based Covid care if the need arises. There are around 129 private registered medical practitioners in rural areas of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rural-vadodara-is-covid-free/articleshow/75561145.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||One dead, 10 new positive cases in Solapur||Kolhapur: The Solapur city on Tuesday recorded death and 10 fresh Covid-19 cases, thus taking the total tally to 145 cases so far. Out of the ten cases, five are men and five are women. According to the health department, a 63-year-old female from Sadar Bazar area was admitted at the Solapur civil hospital on Sunday night in a critical state. She had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and her swab sample report confirmed that she was Covid-19 positive too. She passed away on Monday at 4.45am. According to the district administration, two cases registered on Tuesday were from Rahul Gandhi slum, while one case each was identified from Shastri nagar, Police headquarters rural, Sadar bazar, Hudco colony, Kamtipura, Ulegaon, Nilam Nagar, and Ekta Nagar. The eight cases were close contacts of earlier positive patients, while two were Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. The administrative report said that the total number of positive patients in Solapur now has now reached 145 out of which 112 are active. Out of 145, 81 are men and 64 are women, there have been nine casualties so far. As many as 24 patients have recovered from the infection. On Tuesday, the administration received a total of 169 pending swab results, of which 10 were positive, while rest 159 were negative. The administration has tested 2,407 people out of which 2,172 are negative and 145 have tested positive. As many as 235 samples are still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/one-dead-10-new-positive-cases-in-solapur/articleshow/75564275.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government refuses to accept migrants from Maharashtra, but UP climbs down||MUMBAI: The West Bengal government refused to accept migrants from Maharashtra on Tuesday, even as the state government was awaiting its consent to send 2,400 workers on two trains from Thane to Shalimar station in Howrah. Meanwhile, concerned about a backlash, the Uttar Pradesh government climbed down from its earlier reluctance to evacuate its migrants from Mumbai, Thane and Pune, said officials. The Bihar government has withdrawn its blanket approval for migrants from Maharashtra and said it will decide on a case-to-case basis. WB’s stance came as a shock to the state government, which had been waiting all day for an approval. The migrants had been identified but no one had yet been issued tickets or taken to the railway station. “West Bengal had been very uncommunicative but the refusal was unexpected. No reason was given,” said a senior official. By Tuesday, UP government had backtracked on its stand vis-à-vis migrants from Maharashtra. This came a day after minority affairs minister Nawab Malik revealed that the UP government was not keen on evacuating its migrants from Mumbai, Pune and Thane, and was insisting on a Covid test for passengers. “The UP government has now agreed to follow the Centre’s guidelines which say that passengers should be medically screened for symptoms and permission should be taken from the destination state,” said a senior bureaucrat. Officials said the UP government reacted to reports that its migrants in the city were upset with their home state. “It’s good the minister revealed why UP migrants were not being sent home. Otherwise, they would have blamed the Maharashtra government,” said a senior official. The Bihar government, which had initially given a blanket approval for migrants from the state, though, has said it will now decide on a case-to-case basis. The Karnataka government remains firm on its stand of not evacuating its migrants from Maharashtra. On the other hand, Odisha has joined Rajasthan and West Bengal in giving blanket approval on the evacuation of its migrants from Maharashtra. State officials have said shramik trains are unlikely to start from Mumbai and Pune soon. “The ministry of home affairs has reservations about starting trains from these zones,” said a senior official. Five shramik special trains left the state on Tuesday. There were two departures from Kalyan, one to Bihar and the other to Andhra Pradesh. Another train left from Panvel for Madhya Pradesh. And two more trains left from Nandurbar in North Maharashtra to Darbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar. Two trains ferrying migrants belonging to Maharashtra from Andhra Pradesh arrived at Chandrapur and Gadchiroli, said officials. 100 private buses leave state, get special waiver on border road taxAs many as 100 private buses left the state since Monday ferrying 2,500 migrants towards Gujarat, Rajasthan, Kerala, UP, Karnataka and Telengana. Operators have been allowed a “special waiver” on road tax when crossing the border into another state. The tax would have ranged from Rs 7,500 to Rs 25,000. With the waiver, tickets are expected to reduce by Rs 200 to Rs 500. Meanwhile, the rush of applications continued at police stations, and the resultant chaos added to the anguish of migrants, many of whom are running out of money and food. Massive queues were seen at police stations and doctors’ clinics where migrants lined up to get medical certificates as part of the application. “On the first day we were told to get a medical certificate. When we went to submit it, the police said we need to fix a photograph on it and get that stamped by the doctor too,” said an irate Altaf Khan from Khairani Road in Andheri. “So we had to wait for hours outside the doctor’s clinic for the second time,” he said. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam criticized the Mumbai police, tweeting: “After standing in a queue all day, migrant citizens are getting a message from the police station. It says if your name is on the list, collect Rs 1,020 by the evening. That is the train and bus fare. Isn’t that strange?” The police, though, said it was sending reminders to migrants because many come to the station without money and expect the police or railways to pay for the ticket. Many like Rajasthani migrant Ganpat Bansiwal have realized it is futile to apply for the journey home. “I have only Rs 500 left. How can I buy tickets for six of us even if my application is accepted?” he asked. (With inputs from S Ahmed Ali & Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wb-refuses-to-accept-migrants-from-maha-but-up-climbs-down/articleshow/75566468.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Shelter units for returnees offer yoga||Berhampur: The Ganjam administration has been organizing yoga sessions for migrant workers in government-run quarantine centres to ensure they stay healthy. More than 600 institutional quarantine centres have been set up in all 503 panchayats in the district for home-bound migrant workers from different states. The yoga sessions however are being held only in a few centres. “We have launched the sessions in some centres. We are trying to cover all the centres. Physical training teachers and some yoga gurus are imparting training to the migrants,” said an officer. While most inmates have joined the morning session, several have also chosen to skip it. “Sixty to 70 per cent of the workers are joining the session,” said Surajit Bisoi, headmaster of Government UP School, K.Barida, which houses 98 migrant workers from Surat. Manjulata Dakua, PE teacher at Girls’ High School, Kanta, in Beguniapada block, trains inmates at the K.Barida centre. “The sessions last for two hours, before breakfast,” she said. “The district administration has assigned me the task of imparting yoga training at three centres. There are no people in the other two centres yet,” she added. S Sabita Kumari, another PE teacher assigned to centres at Kukudakhandi, said, “We teach the workers different asanas to rid them of stress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shelter-units-for-returnees-offer-yoga/articleshow/75561715.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||West Bengal government refuses to accept migrants from Maharashtra, but UP climbs down||MUMBAI: The West Bengal government refused to accept migrants from Maharashtra on Tuesday, even as the state government was awaiting its consent to send 2,400 workers on two trains from Thane to Shalimar station in Howrah. Meanwhile, concerned about a backlash, the Uttar Pradesh government climbed down from its earlier reluctance to evacuate its migrants from Mumbai, Thane and Pune, said officials. The Bihar government has withdrawn its blanket approval for migrants from Maharashtra and said it will decide on a case-to-case basis. WB’s stance came as a shock to the state government, which had been waiting all day for an approval. The migrants had been identified but no one had yet been issued tickets or taken to the railway station. “West Bengal had been very uncommunicative but the refusal was unexpected. No reason was given,” said a senior official. By Tuesday, UP government had backtracked on its stand vis-à-vis migrants from Maharashtra. This came a day after minority affairs minister Nawab Malik revealed that the UP government was not keen on evacuating its migrants from Mumbai, Pune and Thane, and was insisting on a Covid test for passengers. “The UP government has now agreed to follow the Centre’s guidelines which say that passengers should be medically screened for symptoms and permission should be taken from the destination state,” said a senior bureaucrat. Officials said the UP government reacted to reports that its migrants in the city were upset with their home state. “It’s good the minister revealed why UP migrants were not being sent home. Otherwise, they would have blamed the Maharashtra government,” said a senior official. The Bihar government, which had initially given a blanket approval for migrants from the state, though, has said it will now decide on a case-to-case basis. The Karnataka government remains firm on its stand of not evacuating its migrants from Maharashtra. On the other hand, Odisha has joined Rajasthan and West Bengal in giving blanket approval on the evacuation of its migrants from Maharashtra. State officials have said shramik trains are unlikely to start from Mumbai and Pune soon. “The ministry of home affairs has reservations about starting trains from these zones,” said a senior official. Five shramik special trains left the state on Tuesday. There were two departures from Kalyan, one to Bihar and the other to Andhra Pradesh. Another train left from Panvel for Madhya Pradesh. And two more trains left from Nandurbar in North Maharashtra to Darbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar. Two trains ferrying migrants belonging to Maharashtra from Andhra Pradesh arrived at Chandrapur and Gadchiroli, said officials. 100 private buses leave state, get special waiver on border road taxAs many as 100 private buses left the state since Monday ferrying 2,500 migrants towards Gujarat, Rajasthan, Kerala, UP, Karnataka and Telengana. Operators have been allowed a “special waiver” on road tax when crossing the border into another state. The tax would have ranged from Rs 7,500 to Rs 25,000. With the waiver, tickets are expected to reduce by Rs 200 to Rs 500. Meanwhile, the rush of applications continued at police stations, and the resultant chaos added to the anguish of migrants, many of whom are running out of money and food. Massive queues were seen at police stations and doctors’ clinics where migrants lined up to get medical certificates as part of the application. “On the first day we were told to get a medical certificate. When we went to submit it, the police said we need to fix a photograph on it and get that stamped by the doctor too,” said an irate Altaf Khan from Khairani Road in Andheri. “So we had to wait for hours outside the doctor’s clinic for the second time,” he said. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam criticized the Mumbai police, tweeting: “After standing in a queue all day, migrant citizens are getting a message from the police station. It says if your name is on the list, collect Rs 1,020 by the evening. That is the train and bus fare. Isn’t that strange?” The police, though, said it was sending reminders to migrants because many come to the station without money and expect the police or railways to pay for the ticket. Many like Rajasthani migrant Ganpat Bansiwal have realized it is futile to apply for the journey home. “I have only Rs 500 left. How can I buy tickets for six of us even if my application is accepted?” he asked. (With inputs from S Ahmed Ali & Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wb-refuses-to-accept-migrants-from-maha-but-up-climbs-down/articleshow/75565415.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||West Bengal government refuses to accept migrants from Maharashtra, but UP climbs down||MUMBAI: The West Bengal government refused to accept migrants from Maharashtra on Tuesday, even as the state government was awaiting its consent to send 2,400 workers on two trains from Thane to Shalimar station in Howrah. Meanwhile, concerned about a backlash, the Uttar Pradesh government climbed down from its earlier reluctance to evacuate its migrants from Mumbai, Thane and Pune, said officials. The Bihar government has withdrawn its blanket approval for migrants from Maharashtra and said it will decide on a case-to-case basis. WB’s stance came as a shock to the state government, which had been waiting all day for an approval. The migrants had been identified but no one had yet been issued tickets or taken to the railway station. “West Bengal had been very uncommunicative but the refusal was unexpected. No reason was given,” said a senior official. By Tuesday, UP government had backtracked on its stand vis-à-vis migrants from Maharashtra. This came a day after minority affairs minister Nawab Malik revealed that the UP government was not keen on evacuating its migrants from Mumbai, Pune and Thane, and was insisting on a Covid test for passengers. “The UP government has now agreed to follow the Centre’s guidelines which say that passengers should be medically screened for symptoms and permission should be taken from the destination state,” said a senior bureaucrat. Officials said the UP government reacted to reports that its migrants in the city were upset with their home state. “It’s good the minister revealed why UP migrants were not being sent home. Otherwise, they would have blamed the Maharashtra government,” said a senior official. The Bihar government, which had initially given a blanket approval for migrants from the state, though, has said it will now decide on a case-to-case basis. The Karnataka government remains firm on its stand of not evacuating its migrants from Maharashtra. On the other hand, Odisha has joined Rajasthan and West Bengal in giving blanket approval on the evacuation of its migrants from Maharashtra. State officials have said shramik trains are unlikely to start from Mumbai and Pune soon. “The ministry of home affairs has reservations about starting trains from these zones,” said a senior official. Five shramik special trains left the state on Tuesday. There were two departures from Kalyan, one to Bihar and the other to Andhra Pradesh. Another train left from Panvel for Madhya Pradesh. And two more trains left from Nandurbar in North Maharashtra to Darbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar. Two trains ferrying migrants belonging to Maharashtra from Andhra Pradesh arrived at Chandrapur and Gadchiroli, said officials. 100 private buses leave state, get special waiver on border road taxAs many as 100 private buses left the state since Monday ferrying 2,500 migrants towards Gujarat, Rajasthan, Kerala, UP, Karnataka and Telengana. Operators have been allowed a “special waiver” on road tax when crossing the border into another state. The tax would have ranged from Rs 7,500 to Rs 25,000. With the waiver, tickets are expected to reduce by Rs 200 to Rs 500. Meanwhile, the rush of applications continued at police stations, and the resultant chaos added to the anguish of migrants, many of whom are running out of money and food. Massive queues were seen at police stations and doctors’ clinics where migrants lined up to get medical certificates as part of the application. “On the first day we were told to get a medical certificate. When we went to submit it, the police said we need to fix a photograph on it and get that stamped by the doctor too,” said an irate Altaf Khan from Khairani Road in Andheri. “So we had to wait for hours outside the doctor’s clinic for the second time,” he said. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam criticized the Mumbai police, tweeting: “After standing in a queue all day, migrant citizens are getting a message from the police station. It says if your name is on the list, collect Rs 1,020 by the evening. That is the train and bus fare. Isn’t that strange?” The police, though, said it was sending reminders to migrants because many come to the station without money and expect the police or railways to pay for the ticket. Many like Rajasthani migrant Ganpat Bansiwal have realized it is futile to apply for the journey home. “I have only Rs 500 left. How can I buy tickets for six of us even if my application is accepted?” he asked. (With inputs from S Ahmed Ali & Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wb-refuses-to-accept-migrants-from-maha-but-up-climbs-down/articleshow/75566469.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad man, nephew send pro-Pak message to SSP, held for sedition||Bareilly: Moradabad police have arrested a man and his nephew on charges of sedition, for allegedly sending a WhatsApp message to senior superintendent of police Amit Pathak, containing “pro-Pakistan slogans” and derogatory remarks about people of another community. The message, sent to the SSP’s official phone, had the Pakistan flag along with the slogan “Pakistan Zindabad”. The district police chief said both accused have been arrested, FIR lodged against them and sent to jail after being produced before a magistrate’s court. The FIR was lodged under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 124A (sedition), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship) of IPC, and relevant sections of the IT Act. Public relation officer at the office of the SSP, inspector Harendra Singh, said the police chief took up the matter with all seriousness and immediately instructed the Civil Lines’ SHO to lodge an FIR and investigate the matter. SHO (Civil Lines) inspector Naval Marwah said they put the sender’s phone number under surveillance and tracked it down to its owner and his uncle, both residents of the same village. “We learnt that the uncle wanted to contest the upcoming panchayat elections against a former block development committee (BDC) member. His nephew used the latter’s photograph as display picture on the WhatsApp number, and sent the message in the hope that his uncle’s opponent would be arrested as a result, which would tarnish his public image and help his uncle win the election,” said inspector Marwah, adding that instead of picking up the ex-BDC member, they tracked down the message to its originators and nabbed them. Both were produced before court on Tuesday and sent to jail. The SHO also said they have recovered the mobile phone from the nephew’s wife. Upon interrogation, the nephew revealed that his uncle had used his mobile to forward the message to the SSP. The uncle, though, said he had sent the message to his nephew, who forwarded it to the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-man-nephew-send-pro-pak-message-to-ssp-held-for-sedition/articleshow/75561713.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 6, 2020||Business||Banks ready to work with states to give relief: Mitra||Kolkata: The State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) in a meeting chaired by finance minister Amit Mitra has decided to extend some sops like restructuring the existing loans and increase in the repayment period as well as enhancing credit facilities to some sectors such as agriculture, MSMEs, fisheries, animal resources, food processing, self-help groups and exports, which has been affected by Covid-19 lock down. The meeting was also attended by Punjab National Bank CEO Mallikarjun Rao. Mitra said that the banks have agreed to work with the state governments closely to provide relief to these sectors. According to SLBC officials, for agriculture it was decided to extend he coverage of Kishan Credit Card to Rs 46 lakh farmers. The quantum of kharif loan will be increased from Rs 4,400 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. For MSME sector, SLBC has said that RBI would be requested by the state to increase the credit limit of MSME to 30% from 10% earlier decided by the apex bank. It was also added that credit disbursement to MSMEs would also be enhanced from the current level. In 2019-20, total disbursement to MSMEs was Rs 74,000 crore. The fresh target for the current fiscal was pegged at Rs 90,000 crore. SLBC has also decided to form a new sub-committee for food processing industry in the state. The sub-committee will submit their report to SLBC in the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-ready-to-work-with-states-to-give-relief-mitra/articleshow/75565013.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Teleconsultations see sharp spike in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Several private hospitals have shifted a chunk of their work to call centres, which are now handling the majority of doctor consultations. As consultations are now primarily being done through teleconsultation, call centres of hospitals are seeing a flurry of activity. Although teleconsultations are not profitable for the hospital managements, it is being looked at as an essential patient outreach effort. “It is an essential service to maintain patient relations, essentially with existing patients. Usually patients who need a follow-up and cannot put a break in their ongoing treatment find it useful. As for the hospital, it is essential to extend this service but this is not done for profit. Around 90% of the consultation charge goes to the consulting doctor, while the remaining goes to the teleconsultation service provider and maintenance of records etc. Still our call centre is abuzz with teleconsultations currently,” said a senior administrator of a corporate hospital in the city. While a few doctors working in corporate hospitals continue to attend duties at the hospitals, most are currently reluctant to come to hospitals and are available only virtually. Meanwhile, the necessity to have minimal contact with suspected Covid-19 patients have pushed administrative staff to work from the hospital call centres. “Since being around the OP ward will mean extra usage of PPEs and of them measures, part of our team is now working from our call centre which is in a separate building. With each doctor taking up to 25 teleconsultations as most doctors are working from home, the call centre is busy now, unlike earlier. The teleconsultations have gone up by three times since the lockdown kicked in,” said a brand consultant of another corporate hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teleconsultations-see-sharp-spike/articleshow/75564285.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Auto drivers sound alarm, seek assistance||Coimbatore: Autorickshaw drivers in the district have said the financial assistance given by the state government has not reached all of them. “The state’s decision of giving Rs 1,000 assistance only to those drivers registered with the welfare board is unfair... a majority of us are not registered and there is no way for us to get registered at once,” a driver said. P K Sugumaran, general secretary of CITU Coimbatore Auto Drivers Union, said there were around 13,000 autorickshaws within the city and 2,000 of them in rural areas. “Only a handful of these drivers are registered with the welfare board. So far, only a few hundred have got the Rs 1,000 assistance given twice by the state,” he claimed. Among the unregistered drivers, those who had ration cards were given Rs 1,000, but that was not sufficient to manage the lockdown period where they don’t have work, he said. The union has sought Rs 15,000 per driver as assistance from the state. Sugumaran said the union was not asking this from the Covid-19 fund, but from the corpus of the welfare board to which all auto drivers contribute through fee of fitness certificate, insurance and other taxes. “The regional transport offices have the details of all autorickshaw drivers. Using that data, the state should give this assistance,” said Sugumaran. Auto drivers have also sought that the state allow autorickshaws to run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auto-drivers-sound-alarm-seek-assistance/articleshow/75564287.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt issues revised SOP for checkpoint mgmt||Bhubaneswar: To prevent the unchecked entry of people from neighbouring states, the Odisha government has issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) to district administrations for border checkpoints. The SOP, issued by special relief commissioner and additional chief secretary to government (disaster management), Pradeep Jena, on Monday, specifies the roles and responsibilities of police and regional transport offices at the border checkpoints. Jena had on May 2 issued an SOP and said 12 border checkpoints would be set up in 11 border districts — Biramitrapur in Sundargarh, Champua in Keonjhar, Chandili in Koraput, Girisola in Ganjam, Jamshola in Mayurbhanj, Kanktora in Jharsuguda, Kerada in Rayagada, Khariar Road in Nuapada, Laxmannath in Balasore, Loharchoti in Bargarh, Motu in Malkangiri and Sunki in Koraput. Odisha shares borders with Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Sources said the revised SOP asks police to intercept vehicles a few metres away before from the border checkpoint and examine their passes. Vehicles without movement pass from the originating state will be detained on the other side of the border checkpoint. Vehicles with valid pass will be allowed to come near the holding area of the checkpoint, where RTO officials will verify whether the returnees have registered themselves with the government’s Covid-19 portal. The SOP says RTO staff will facilitate on-spot registration of returnees who have not registered with the Covid-19 website. RTO personnel will also check whether the vehicle details were registered with the portal. If the pre-registration vehicle module is not done, the RTO staff will conduct on-spot registration of vehicle. Each passenger will be stamped with indelible ink on their right inner forearm. Vehicles will be given new entry passes with details of routes and final destinations in Odisha. Though district collectors and SPs can fetch details about the registered returnees and vehicles from the portal, police have been asked to provide all details to the concerned district administrations over phone before the vehicles are allowed to cross the border checkpoint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-issues-revised-sop-for-checkpoint-mgmt/articleshow/75561737.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Car hits median, flips over and lands on service road||BENGALURU: A 50-year-old private firm employee escaped with minor injuries after his speeding car hit a median and flipped in the air before landing on the service road near Hebbal bus stand on Ballari Road in north Bengaluru on Tuesday morning. RT Nagar traffic police said, Srinivasa Ramanujam HR, a resident of Malleswaram, was driving his Nissan Sunny XV (KA04 MK 4452) towards Devanahalli when the accident happened around 8.50 am. “Ramanujam was alone in the vehicle. He lost control of the car and it hit the median and flipped a few times before landing on the service road. We have seized the vehicle and registered a case,” RT Nagar traffic police said. Police added that Ramanujam sustained minor injuries on his forehead as he was wearing a seat belt and the air bags had opened. He was treated as an outpatient in a nearby private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-escapes-with-minor-injuries-after-his-car-topples/articleshow/75565946.cms||Santosh Kumar
May 6, 2020||Goa||No detaining undergraduate students, hold exam in shifts: GU||PANAJI: The Goa University on Tuesday issued revised academic terms for undergraduate programmes for the current academic year. As decided in the meeting with general stream college principals, GU has said that regular examinations will be conducted from June 22 to July 15. No student appearing for these examinations will be detained, the varsity stated in the circular. “Such students shall have to clear the examinations for the course/s in which he/she has failed, whenever the examination is held next. Such students shall also have an opportunity to improve their grades by appearing for the current semester course(s) in the succeeding semesters/years or through supplementary examinations,” GU registrar Y V Reddy said. This is applicable to undergraduate programmes of BA, BSc (including home science), BSc, BEd, BA, BEd, BCom, BBA and BCA. “Timetables for examinations in the current semester shall be prepared by the respective collegesensuring that social distancing is maintained. The colleges may conduct the examinations in two or three shifts per day taking into consideration facilities,” the circular stated. For semester VI, practical examinations are to be held by conducting a written test of two hours. “For semester II and IV, the examinations are partially completed, then the colleges should explore the possibility of completing the examinations for the remaining batches by the same mode in order to maintain uniformity. Such examinations can be conducted after the theory examinations in July,” the circular stated. As far as possible, examinations for students having backlog are to be conducted by the same mode as the earlier examinations. “There will be no revaluation or challenge evaluation of papers for TY. Instead, the provision of personal verification available in the ordinance and provided to FY and SY students shall be followed by TY students,” the circular stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-detaining-ug-students-hold-exam-in-shifts-varsity/articleshow/75565023.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Constable returning after giving PPE kits killed in accident||Dehradun: A 36-year-old police constable, who was returning from a quarantine centre in Premnagar after handing over Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit, was killed in a road accident late on Monday night. Constable Sanjay Kumar, reportedly, lost control over his bike while he was passing through jungle area near Nanda Ki Chowki and skidded off the road. He sustained serious injuries in the accident. On receiving information, a team from Premnagar police station reached the spot and took Sanjay Kumar to a private hospital where he died during treatment on Tuesday. Reportedly, Premnagar police station had received a call that a person quarantined inside the facility was creating ruckus but the policemen stationed outside the centre could not enter the premises to control the situation as they didn’t have PPE kits. So, Kumar was sent to the facility with protective gears. Constable Sanjay Kumar had joined police in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/constable-returning-after-giving-ppe-kits-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75563287.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Empty streets take sheen off Pipili||Bhubaneswar: With shops shut since March 22, the forlorn Pipili market is a far cry from the riot of colours it used to be. The condition of the 7,000-odd small and big artisans living in and around Pipili, whose world-famous appliqué work is their only source of income, is no better. The artisans, along with the proprietors of around 60 shops, together earn around Rs 1 crore a year. Now, even two square meals a day has become a tough ask for some Pipili artisans, even though they have received PDS rice and Rs 1,000 from the government. “It is difficult for us to buy cooking oil and dal. Currently, I am buying groceries on loan from the ration shop owner,” said Lily Parida, 29, an artisan who used to earn around Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 per month during peak season. With no work now, Lily, a resident of Siriapur village near Pipili, is also unable to buy medicines for her paralysed mother. She has to run the household with the meagre amount her father, a farmer, gets. “I also have to repay a loan I had taken to repair my house after Cyclone Fani because the help from the authorities was insufficient,” said Lily. There are many appliqué artisans living both in and around a 20km radius of Pipili who are in such dire straits. The senior craftspersons also cannot provide work to them as there is no demand for the products of this tourist-driven industry. “We depend on customers from New Delhi and West Bengal. I don’t expect them to return till the year-end,” said a crestfallen Ramesh Mohapatra, general secretary of Pipili Appliqué Cluster. The artisans missed out on local sales during Dola Purnima, the marriage season and Pana Sankranti when appliqué items are used for religious ceremonies. The Rath Yatra, which provides them with big orders every year, is also doubtful. “Our machines will gather dust. I still have to pay small amounts to the artisans,” said Mohapatra. Many craftspersons have also suffered because of no sale in other cities or state agencies like Utkalika and exhibitions. “Our karigars are asking us when work will restart,” said Sabita Maharana, an artisan and wife of master craftsman Manoranjan Maharana of Banamalipur, whose lamp shades are sought-after by businessman and tent house owners in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/empty-streets-take-sheen-off-pipili/articleshow/75561764.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Two localities to be removed from containment zone list||Dehradun/Roorkee: A day after all the random samples taken from city’s Muslim Colony in Lakhibagh area and from Jhabrawal in Doiwala tested negative for coronavirus, the district administration has decided to remove the two localities from the list of containment zones. The decision was taken on Tuesday after the Dehradun’s Chief Medical Officer informed the district administration that all samples from the two areas were found negative. District magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava said that in addition to negative outcomes in the random survey, the localities have also completed 28 days of surveillance. However, the official added that all the restriction announced under the lockdown till May 17 will stand valid. The officials have urged the residents in the areas to move out of their homes only in case of emergency and follow the norms of social distancing. On the day, the district administration also issued another list of trade and businesses which have been given relaxations during the lockdown 3.0. According to the list, shops related to photo copies and print-outs, government transport office, sweet shops, nurseries, tyre sale and vehicle repairing shops have been allowed to remain open daily. On the other hand, cycle stores, automobile spare part stores, dry cleaners, printing press and shops selling worship material (pooja samagri) have been allowed to open only thrice a week. Meanwhile, locals of Paniyala village near Roorkee completed one month of home quarantine period. The villagers, more than 10,000, were put under home quarantine since April 4 after a coronavirus positive case was reported from the village. According to reports, a 27-year-old man had come to the village from Rajasthan after attending Tablighi Jamaat on March 30. Later, he was tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, the administration had put the whole village in home quarantine. “We have got the order for removing home quarantine status of Paniyala village today (May 5). Also, the Covid-19 positive case has recovered fully and come back to the village," said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-localities-to-be-removed-from-containment-zone-list/articleshow/75563255.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||Five who attended Jamaat event in Delhi & hid info sent to jail in UP||Bareilly: A local court on Tuesday sent five followers of Tablighi Jamaat to 14 days in jail after they were produced on the completion of 28-day quarantine spell in Shahjahanpur. The Jamaat followers were then sent to a temporary jail made for them in the district. Earlier, 12 Jamaat members, including nine from Thailand, were sent to the same temporary jail.A total of 16 Jamaat members and an event organizer were arrested from different parts of Shahjahanpur on April 1.The five persons sent to the jail on Tuesday had hid from the authorities that they visited Delhi’s Jamaat congregation, from where over 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases surfaced later. But, after a probe of their mobile phone records, police found out that they had visited Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.All were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271(disobedience to quarantine rule).Their samples were sent for Covid-19 test and one of the Thailand nationals was tested positive.SHO of RC Mission police station said, “We had found five Jamaat members who had been to Tamil Nadu. They later attended the congregation in Delhi. They were hiding in villages and tried everything possible to escape from police which is why they were booked under relevant sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-who-attended-jamaat-event-in-delhi-hid-info-sent-to-jail-in-up/articleshow/75561733.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||Five who attended Jamaat event in Delhi & hid info sent to jail in UP||Bareilly: A local court on Tuesday sent five followers of Tablighi Jamaat to 14 days in jail after they were produced on the completion of 28-day quarantine spell in Shahjahanpur. The Jamaat followers were then sent to a temporary jail made for them in the district. Earlier, 12 Jamaat members, including nine from Thailand, were sent to the same temporary jail.A total of 16 Jamaat members and an event organizer were arrested from different parts of Shahjahanpur on April 1.The five persons sent to the jail on Tuesday had hid from the authorities that they visited Delhi’s Jamaat congregation, from where over 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases surfaced later. But, after a probe of their mobile phone records, police found out that they had visited Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.All were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271(disobedience to quarantine rule).Their samples were sent for Covid-19 test and one of the Thailand nationals was tested positive.SHO of RC Mission police station said, “We had found five Jamaat members who had been to Tamil Nadu. They later attended the congregation in Delhi. They were hiding in villages and tried everything possible to escape from police which is why they were booked under relevant sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-who-attended-jamaat-event-in-delhi-hid-info-sent-to-jail-in-up/articleshow/75561756.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 norms in place, Hyderabad's RGIA plans for a flying start post lockdown||HYDERABAD: The city’s Rajiv Gandhi Internationl Airport (RGIA) is gearing up to start operations post the lockdown. On Tuesday, officials of the GMR-managed facility, issued a detailed document on the various initiatives that are being implemented to cope with the Covid-19 impact. It also listed out precautionary measures that passengers can take to reduce their chances of contracting the virus, once air travel resumes. These include -- web check-in before arriving at the airport, use of self check-in kiosks and digital payments at retail stores. Stressing on social distancing, the document stated that it will be followed in every segment of RGIA – departures, arrivals, security check, customs and immigration and even in the buses that ferry passengers from the terminal to the aircraft. For the same reason, all convenience facilities, including prayer rooms and smoking rooms, will be temporarily suspended. The airport will provide Hazmat suits to security personnel involved in passenger screening, conduct thermal screening by CISF with automated thermal cameras at all terminal entry points, have hand sanitiser dispensers at every nook and cranny etc. “The entire Hyderabad Airport family including all our stakeholders are working through the lockdown period to ensure that we have the right measures in place for ensuring passenger safety once the commercial flight operations are permitted to resume by the government. While the airport is geared up with a high level of hygiene and new operational procedures, passengers’ role in keeping the airport safe would also be equally important,” said SGK Kishore, CEO, GHIAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-norms-in-place-rgia-plans-for-a-flying-start-post-lockdown/articleshow/75564297.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||Criminal arrested after encounter in Sambhal||Bareilly: A dreaded criminal wanted in several cases, including cow slaughtering and smuggling, was arrested after an encounter in Sambhal. Police on Tuesday said during the gun battle, constable Mochhendra Kumar and accused Bilal sustained bullet injuries and were shifted to the district hospital. Biala’s accomplice, however, managed to flee the scene, said superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad. The SP said on Monday night, a police patrolling team spotted two youths astride a motorbike near Allipurbujurg village under Baniyather police station limits and signalled them to stop. “Instead of following police’s instructions, they opened fire at the police team and tried to escape the scene. A bullet struck constable Mochhendra Kumar in his hand. The police team, too, opened fire in self-defence and a bullet hit the accused in his leg,” said the SP. The SP added that Bilal was wanted in at least six cases, including theft, smuggling and cow slaughtering, lodged against him at Rajpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/criminal-arrested-after-encounter-in-sambhal/articleshow/75561783.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Trichy||Civic body screens vulnerable groups||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has launched mass screening and sample collection from vulnerable groups even as the city has not recorded any fresh case since April 17. So far, 180 samples have been collected in the temporary wholesale vegetable market at G corner, and the corporation will gradually collect samples from frontline staff deployed in the containment zones. Ever since the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai became a Covid-19 hotspot, Trichy Corporation has included G corner market as a vulnerable group. On Monday, a team of 60 corporation employees motivated the loadmen, drivers and vegetable vendors to get tested at the mobile sample collection facility. Among the 500 who volunteered, samples were taken for 180 high-risk people including those with comorbid conditions and the aged. The results are likely to come out on Wednesday. This is the first time the civic body carried out mass screening outside the containment zones. Further, frontline staff, including policemen and revenue department personnel deployed in the containment zones are to be tested. “As the city is Covid-19 free for the past few weeks, we are focussing on quarantining people arriving from other districts and screening the vulnerable groups,” a senior corporation official said. Earlier, samples collected from more than 100 people employed in commercial establishments in Thennur, Bhima Nagar and Thillai Nagar containment zones tested negative. The civic body on an average collects 150 samples per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-screens-vulnerable-groups/articleshow/75564290.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers’ body takes to Twitter, demands loan waiver||Pilibhit: The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella organization of over 250 farmer unions from across the country, on Tuesday launched a nationwide movement on twitter, pressing for waiving all agricultural loans. Convener of the AIKSCC VM Singh said the aim is to draw attention to government apathy to farmers,' interest. While the central government waived corporate sector loans to the tune of Rs 66,607 crore, farmers continue to reel under debt burden, he added. “In reaction of this, the farmers have decided to keep struggling until the same relief is awarded to them too as they deserve top precedence in comparison to corporate sector," Singh warned. The government could no have fed the country during the lockdown without farmers’ contributions, Singh added The farmer leader also slammed the Union government for not providing any relief to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. Farmers in many parts of northern India suffered losses due to the recent rain and hailstorm On farmers being forced to sell wheat and other produce at government-determined price, he said, " When every product in the market, including the agricultural inputs, are sold at a price fixed by the manufacturer, why only farmers have to sell their produce at the price fixed by traders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-body-takes-to-twitter-demands-loan-waiver/articleshow/75561769.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Special exam for foreign and outstation students||PANAJI: Goa University has said that general stream colleges at the undergraduate level and institutes offering BA LLB and LLB programmes will have conduct special examinations for foreign and out station students, who are unable to answer their scheduled examinations due their absence from Goa. Special examinations will also be held for such students at the postgraduate level, the varsity has said in a circular issued on Tuesday. These exams are of the current academic year 2019-20. Like at the undergraduate level, for postgraduate programmes too, the new academic year will begin from August 1, the university has said. “Special examinations (at PG level) to be conducted in June 2020 for foreign students and students of other states who are in their final semester and presently residing in Goa and who wish to leave after the examinations. Similarly, special examinations to be conducted in August 2020 for foreign students and students of other states who are currently residing outside Goa and are not able to returnto attend the regular examinations,” GU registrar Y V Reddy stated in the circular. Like at the undergraduate level, shortfall of attendance of students will be condoned and attendance will not be an eligibility criterion for appearing for the examinations. “The maximum duration of examinations shall be of two hours. Examinations that are currently of over two hours shall be conducted with reduced marks and thereafter proportionately scaled up. All the exams shall be conducted in the institute where the student is enrolled. The teacher teaching the course shall set and evaluate the paper,” the GU circular stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spl-exam-for-foreign-and-outstation-students/articleshow/75565026.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers protest delay in sending them home||Coimbatore: Around 100 guest workers, who have been staying in Sivananda Colony and Rathinapuri in the city, staged a protest on Tuesday, urging officials to facilitate their journey back home. They all hail from either Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. There are around 800 guest workers from northern states in these parts of the city. They were working in construction sites and commercial establishments. Following the lockdown, they were out of jobs and had no way to feed themselves. The city police have been giving them three meals a day for the past 40 days or so. When cops went to provide them lunch at 1.30pm on Tuesday, around 100 guest workers refused to have the food and squatted on road in protest. They also raised slogans, stating they should be sent home. Subsequently, police officials held talks with them with the help of a lady cop who knew Hindi. The officials said the district administration has been gathering details of guest workers and that they would be sent home soon. Following this, the guest workers called off the protest, collected food packets and went back to their rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-protest-delay-in-sending-them-home/articleshow/75564300.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||25% industries start operations in Kolhapur city||Kolhapur: Around 25% of total industrial units from Udyamnagar and Y P Powar Nagar areas of the city have started operations on Tuesday. According to MIDC officials, almost all industries from Kolhapur city and the MIDC area of the district will start ful-fledge operations as restrictions on the industrial establishments have been relaxed in this phase of lockdown. After the industries located in MIDC outside residential areas in Kolhapur district started operations, the industrial units located in the city were awaiting approval from the government to start operations. After Kolhapur district was included in the orange zone, district administration granted permission to all industries in the Udyanmangar and Y P Powar Nagar areas to start operations keeping all the social distancing rules in consideration. “Till date, 915 industries from the district have started operations and we have granted permission to 3,535 industrial units to start their operations. As many as 10,000 workers have started working in these industrial units following the social distancing rules,” said an official attached with MIDC office, Kolhapur. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce (KCCI) said, “The industrial activities will streamline within a week as some industrialists are still busy in cleaning and repairing work of their machines which were shut since March 24. Some are gathering information about the inventory with them and the raw material required to start operations. Once they complete these processes and get connected with the workers and complete the formalities regarding getting approval to employ workers in their units, the industries will start in full swing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-industries-start-operations-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/75564298.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||22-year-old sexually harassed, assaulted with poleaxe||Pilibhit: The police on Tuesday booked a 27-year-old man for allegedly sexually harassing and assaulting a 22-year-old girl in a village under Neuria police station. The victim with serious neck injuries was first shifted to the community health centre at Neuria. She was later referred to the district hospital in view of her critical injuries. A case was registered on a complaint filed by the victim’s father. According to the complainant, her daughter was on her way to Dhankuna market with a friend on Tuesday morning to buy some essentials when the accused, identified as Sanjeev Kumar, of the same village, obstructed their way on the outskirts of the village. Kumar passed derogatory remarks and sexually harassed her. When the two tried to scream for help, Kumar abused and threatened to kill them. As the victim struggled to protect herself, Kumar attacked her neck with a poleaxe. The attack left the victim with a deep wound and she passed out. The accused then fled the spot, the complainant said. Station house officer, Kheem Singh Jalal, said that Kumar was booked under section 354 A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Jalal said the girl’s medical examination report is awaited and seeing the injuries, some relevant sections could be added to the FIR. “The accused is yet to be arrested,” Jalal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-year-old-sexually-harassed-assaulted-with-poleaxe/articleshow/75561806.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||SDRF brings back over 3,000 state residents stranded in Chandigarh and Jaipur||Dehradun: After rescuing over 500 stranded people from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) on Tuesday brought back 3,082 people—students, migrant labourers and others—from the state stranded in Chandigarh due to the on-going Covid-19 lockdown. The operation using 113 Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) buses was conducted by a 20-member SDRF team—led by sub-inspector Gajendra Parwal—which left from ISBT Dehradun on May 3. "As many as 3082 stranded residents in Chandigarh have been safely brought back to Uttarakhand after a 48-hour long exercise. Of these, 2384 people are from Garhwal (87 buses) and rest 698 hails from Kumaon (26 buses)," said Tripti Bhatt, commandant, SDRF. In a separate operation, six Uttarakhand buses, which left for Jaipur on May 3 with 198 residents of Rajasthan, are bringing back 219 stranded residents of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sdrf-brings-back-over-3000-state-residents-stranded-in-chandigarh-and-jaipur/articleshow/75563332.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Naveen praises cops for keeping domestic violence ‘under control’||Bhubaneswar: Incidents of domestic violence during the lockdown have not reached alarming proportions yet in Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said on Tuesday. Naveen had earlier expressed concern over the rise in cases of domestic violence in the country and had asked police in the state to keep a strict watch on known offenders. In a video conference with senior police officers, Naveen reviewed crime in the state, especially cases of domestic violence, and appreciated the force for tackling it well. He specifically reviewed the status of the phone-up programme launched by police, under which cops have been calling up women who had been earlier subjected to domestic violence to ask about their well-being. Police have so far called up 5,649 women, all victims of domestic violence, in the past few weeks. Of them, only one per cent said they continued to face violence at home. “Police promptly initiated action against the offenders. Law and order is under control in Odisha,” read a statement from the chief minister’s office. Anti-liquor activists, however, said domestic violence was under control because of the ban on sale of liquor during the lockdown. “We have been hearing reports that the government will open liquor shops soon. We fear that cases of domestic violence will go up if this happens,” said Prasanta Mohanty, an anti-liquor activist. In the video conference, the chief minister also took stock of the enforcement of the lockdown. Naveen’s statement said at least 6,500 people have been booked and 47,000 vehicles seized across the state so far for violations .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/naveen-praises-cops-for-keeping-domestic-violence-under-control/articleshow/75561817.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Village committees instruct people not to return home||Kolhapur: The village level committees have become aggressive in protecting the locals from getting infected as people returning homes from red zones are instructed to reconsider their decision. The move comes after the government started giving travel passes to people from orange and green zone to travel at their respective native places. Since the lockdown-3 came into effect from May 4, the Kolhapur district administration has started ensuring that there will be less inflow of people from other districts to Kolhapur to stop the spread of infection due to migration. District Collector Daulat Desai has already stated that there will not be entry to people from the red zone area (Pune and Mumbai) to Kolhapur district. The village committee comprises of elected representatives including Sarpanch as the president and government representatives including Police Patil, Talathi, and gramsevak and young volunteers of the village. Chandrakant Shinde, a villager from Chandgat taluka, said that from March 24 they have ensured that no outsider enters the village except for any essential work. “We are guarding village borders day and night and have told our friends and relatives residing in Pune and Mumbai to stay there only and not to return home. We have warned them that we will send them to institutional quarantine if they come home. This is in the interest of our village,” he said. Another volunteer from Malkapur in Shahuwadi taluka said they have instructed villagers to inform them if they come across any new person coming to the village. “We cannot guard all the borders of our village but have kept informers in every lane to inform new entrants in the village. We will inform the police and ask them to appropriate action as per rule against the said person,” he said. There are also people, who have secured travel pass from the district administration, but the village committees have said no for their arrival. “I want to visit my village Parite in Karveer taluka which is hardly 25 km away from Kolhapur but my relatives and friends have advised me not to come till the threat of coronavirus pandemic ends,” said Jeevan Patil, a resident of Kolhapur. On the other hand, the district guardian minister Satej Patil has said that the village committee has been told to take a decision about the quarantine facility of people entering their villages. “The committee will screen people and will take decisions accordingly. However, they are not authorised to prevent anyone from entering their village.” District administration has directed each village to set-up a quarantine facility that can accommodate 50 people and make arrangement of their food and sanitation facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/village-committees-instruct-people-not-to-return-home/articleshow/75564310.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanitation staff in Covid-19 wards of Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital want regularisation||HYDERABAD: Sanitation workers in Covid-19 wards of Gandhi Hospital are boycotting the duties for the last two days, demanding regularisation of their jobs, better wages and incentives. They said they have been paid Rs 8,000 a month for the last 15 years and demanded hike in their salaries. They also demanded incentives like other medical workers get since Gandhi hospital has been designated as a Covid-19 hospital. “We do all the work like even packing the bodies. We are at a greater risk than any worker here. The government should recognise our services,” Venkat, a sanitation worker, said. All the workers are employed under a private contractor on an outsourcing basis. They also pointed out that GHMC sanitation workers get incentives but they are denied such a facility. “Floral tributes for us are fine but we are ignored completely despite our hard work,” another worker said. “We want a reasonable pay,” he added. Recently, some sanitation staff were showered with petals for working during the lockdown. Another worker, who resides on the city outskirts, said she was not allowed to enter her village as residents thought she might be carrying coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-staff-want-regularisation/articleshow/75564322.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vadodara||Wadi erupts upon Bharuch man’s visit||VADODARA: Two groups from the minority community in Wadi area clashed on Monday night over the visit of man from Bharuch to the area. The clash erupted after the residents of Taiwada locality in Wadi called the police on learning that a man named Shabbir Patel from Bharuch had come there. When the PCR van from Panigate police station arrived, a mob gathered outside Patel’s friend Salim Bajewala’s house insisting that Patel undergo test for coronavirus. As Patel argued with the police saying that he is a journalist with a local weekly in Bharuch and had come to Vadodara to cover the pandemic, the mob got furious and damaged Patel’s car. On the other hand, Patel, too, manhandled a trader from the area Imran Khansaheb threatening him of dire consequences if he would approach the police again. Cops intervened and dispersed the two groups before the situation could escalate. Later cros complaints of rioting and assault were registered by the both groups at the Panigate police station. Senior police officials patrolled the locality till late night to ensure peace. “The two groups had been at loggerheads ever since the Muslim Doctors’ Association started survey and distributing of preventive medicines in the area. The group led by Bajewala is against taking any medicine and was also instigating others in the community not to take the medicine or participate in the survey,” said a police official. “There were other issues too but we could bring about an amicable settlement. Patel’s visit from Bharuch was a trigger point for the groups to clash,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wadi-erupts-upon-bharuch-mans-visit/articleshow/75561172.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Pooram concludes sans its ‘real spirit’||Thrissur: Special Poojas were held at Vadakkumnathan temple as per the direction of the chief priest (thantri) in the wake of cancellation of Thrissur Pooram. According to Vadakkumnathan temple secretary T R Hariharan, a special lamp lighting ceremony was held at the ‘sreemoolastanam’ of the temple. “Usually, all Pooram-related rituals are held in front of Vadakkunathan. But due to the pandemic, all rituals were cancelled. Then, as per thantri’s direction, we conducted ‘deepakazcha’ on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. On the Pooram day on Saturday, 30 lamps were lighted in the ‘sreemoolastam’. The lamps resemble 30 elephants which take part in Pooram every year..” “The lamp lighting was a prayer offered to Vadakkunathan to provide a chance to conduct the Pooram next year. In 1962, during the Indo-China war and in 1948 after the death of Mahatma Gandhi, Pooram was held like a ritual with one elephant parade,” said Hariharan. The rituals completed on Sunday. After ‘arattu’, ‘sreebhootabali’, and ‘kalasam’ rituals, ‘kodiyirakku’ ceremony was held on Sunday evening, said G Rajesh, Paramekkavu devaswom secretary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pooram-concludes-sans-its-real-spirit/articleshow/75554299.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bareilly||1,216 workers arrive by special train from Gujarat, 3 suspects quarantined||Bareilly: Of the total 1,216 migrant workers who reached Bareilly by the Shramik special train from Ahmedabad in Gujarat on Tuesday, a few people claimed they had paid Rs 525 to buy tickets for the journey. Yash Dixit (18) and his father Brajesh Kumar told TOI, “We were working in a factory making thread. On Monday, we were sent to Sabarmati railway station in a bus, in which we paid Rs 525 each for train tickets. I paid Rs 1,050 for two tickets.” From Bareilly junction, Dixit and his father boarded a bus to their home in Mainpuri. He added, “My father used to work as a mechanic in Mainpuri, but as he was not getting much work here, both of us moved to Gujarat in June 2018. The factory where we used to work paid us Rs 420 on daily basis for 12 hour shifts. After the factory shut down on March 22 due to lockdown, we had no work and faced difficulties in finding food. We had no choice but to return home. After all that has happened, we might not return even after lockdown is lifted.” Rajendra Prasad, a native of Bhadohi, said, “I was working in a factory in Ahmedabad. When return arrangements were made, we were asked to board a bus from the factory campus to Sabarmati railway station and after our health check-up was done. I too paid Rs 525 for the train ticket in the bus. Though we didn’t buy the ticket from the counter, we were given physical tickets as we entered the train.” Some passengers claimed they were give train tickets for free. Abdul Rahman, who was working at a brick kiln in Gujarat, said, “I am happy the government helped me reach home. I did not have to pay for my return journey.” Pradeep Kumar (25) of Etawah said, “We boarded the train around midnight and were given boiled rice for lunch the next morning at Ajmer.” After the train reached Bareilly, health teams screened them again, and then they were sent to their home districts in buses. Bareilly station superintendent Satya Veer Singh said, “The train was scheduled to reach by 11.45 am, but arrived late at 4.25 pm. Social distancing was followed when passengers deboarded. Of the 1,216 passengers, three were suspected of carrying covid and have been quarantined.” Cheeni Prasad, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC, said, “Only 25 people were made to sit per bus, to maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1216-workers-arrive-by-special-train-from-gujarat-3-suspects-quarantined/articleshow/75561824.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||They work by maintaining physical distancing||Coimbatore: About 2,690 workers from village panchayats turned up to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) Act in the district on Monday. The number of workers has been steadily increasing ever since the district administration kickstarted rural work under the programme. An official with the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) said, “We are enrolling only workers who are showing willingness to work under the scheme.” The workers are involved in digging pits around coconut trees, creating bunds along farmlands, construction of soak pits and community pits and other construction work. As southwest monsoon is expected to lash the district in a month, the work being done now would be useful to harvest rainwater, he added Work has also commenced in all village panchayats expect ten panchayats including Athupollachi, Diwansa Pudur, Odanthurai and S Kumarapalayam which are containment zones, the official said. The wage for the workers has been increased from Rs 229 to Rs 256 per day. Social distancing norms are being ensured at work sites and only 10 to 20 workers are being engaged at a site as compared to about 50 workers earlier, he said.  The DRDA has distributed masks and soaps to all workers who are turning up for employment under the scheme, the official said. In general, the number of villagers who turn up for work under the scheme is less during summer season as most workers are busy preparing their farmland for southwest monsoon, the official said, pointing out that about 5000 workers had registered before the lockdown. “We expect that the number would gradually increase in upcoming days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/they-work-by-maintaining-physical-distancing/articleshow/75564315.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s doubling rate for Covid at about 4.5 days||Aurangabad: Aurangabad, which has been witnessing a considerable surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, has got the doubling rate of 4.5 days, which is much higher than the state or national average, said Aurangabad Municipal Corporation administrator Astik Kumar Pandey on Tuesday.“Doubling rate in Aurangabad was 11 days when the lockdown started. It is 4.5 days now. During this period, we formulated a Covid task force for massive contact mapping tracing/tracking. We have mapped more than 4,200 suspects so far. We did large-scale testing and found 321 positive,” Pandey told TOI.He said that it is only due to the massive and intensive contact mapping and testing that Aurangabad is doing 2nd highest testing after Mumbai. Of all those who have been tested, approximately 7% have tested positive for Covid-19.With 15,525 cases so far, Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid positive cases in the country, and state’s average doubling rate stand at nine days. According to a statement by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, issue on Tuesday evening, the country has improved its overall doubling rate to 12 days as against three days before March 25. Data available online shows that the country has so far reported 47,738 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 27.40% patients have recovered. As per the figures obtained from the authorities in Aurangabad, with about 321 positive cases reported till Tuesday evening, Aurangabad has 9% recovery rate and 3% death rate.Revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar said the doubling rate should be attributed to one of the highest testing capacities per million being carried out in Aurangabad.“Though there is nothing to cherish about it, one thing should be appreciated that most of the high-risk contacts of positive patients were tracked down and isolated before their reports turned came positive,” he said.The authorities informed that they are expecting that the number of people, especially those from high- and low-risk contacts, those who have already tested positive, to add to the existing figures. Pushkal Shivam, deputy CEO of smart city project and member of the Covid task force, said, “Due to the increased contact mapping clubbed with analysis of the tower location of those testing positive, we are able to identify and track down more and more ‘silent’ careers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-doubling-rate-for-covid-at-about-4-5-days/articleshow/75563338.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Teams formed to search for on the run convict||Kolhapur: A search operation has been launched by Kolhapur police to find the prisoner who fled from Kalamba jail on Monday. The accused — Laxman Vasant Dhotre alias Kalgutkar (36), a resident of Umari in Kinwat taluka of Nanded district — was convicted for murdering his wife and sentenced to 11-year life imprisonment. He was transferred from Nashik jail to Kalamba around 10 months ago. "Owing to his good behaviour, he was transferred to the open jail where he was deployed on gardening duty," a jail official said. Sharad Shelke, superintendent of Kalamba central prison, said, "Dhotre along with other prisoners was sent to work in the agricultural field behind jail on Monday afternoon. After completion of duty, while they were returning to the prison, the on-duty guards noticed that Dhotre was missing. We immediately alerted the Juan Rajwada police station about this and lodged an official complaint." Pramod Jadhav, police inspector in-charge of Juna Rajwada police station, said, "We have formed two teams that are searching for Dhotre. Due to the ongoing lockdown, we suspect that Dhotre might be hiding somewhere in Kolhapur."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/teams-formed-to-search-for-on-the-run-convict/articleshow/75564303.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: PIL alleges schools charging ‘hefty fee for online classes’||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the central and state governments, Uttarakhand Board of School Education as well as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to file their responses after a public interest litigation (PIL) alleged that schools across the state are charging “hefty amounts from parents for providing online classes during the lockdown.” The PIL was heard by a division bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani through video conferencing. Speaking to TOI, Ajay Veer Pundir, the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, said that the court heard the arguments and has given the respondents a weeks’ time to reply. “We told the court that despite the government’s direction to not charge any extra fee for providing online classes, many schools have been mailing and messaging parents to submit the extra fee. After hearing the arguments, the bench directed the Centre as well as state government and the education boards to file their responses till May 12 when the case will be heard next,” Pundir said. The petition had alleged that the use of smartphones and internet as means for providing classes is “discriminatory since it does not provide equal access to the students from poor backgrounds or the children living in remote areas of the state.” “All the affiliated schools are organising complicated classes through online classrooms, which are only amenable to the highly qualified parents, who are well equipped with all internet connectivity and special gadgets and computers etc. But most of the parents are neither well equipped with the aforesaid electronic gadgets and internet connection, nor are well conversed with computer and online classes, and therefore, most of the students are not able to complete their studies in the new era of online classes,” the petition read. The petitioner has suggested the use of the government-run Doordarshan channel to conduct remote classes “so that students from every strata of the society can get access to education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-seeks-cbse-centre-state-govt-response-after-petition-alleges-hefty-amount-charged-by-schools-for-providing-online-classes/articleshow/75561870.cms||Prashant Jha
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Ukkadam fish market gets back into biz||COIMBATORE: Almost a month after it was closed, the fish market in Ukkadam resumed operations on Tuesday, bringing cheers among the public. The shopkeepers have been asked to ensure physical distancing by their customers and keep the market premises clean. The city corporation has warned of severe action if they fail to adhere to the physical distancing norms and other guidelines. On March 30, when it was reopened, public had thronged the market, throwing the physical distancing norms to the wind. The crowd was dispersed only with the help of police officials. Shortly after that, the city corporation had held a meeting with the shopkeepers, who decided to close the market till the end of lockdown when they were told about the consequences of not following physical distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ukkadam-fish-market-gets-back-into-biz/articleshow/75564319.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Business||Employees work more & take less leaves: Deloitte||Bengaluru: Employees are putting in more working hours and there has been significantly less absenteeism during the coronavirus crisis, according to a study by consultancy firm Deloitte. The report said 90% of CXOs surveyed noted that people are working more. “In unprecedented times, greater accountability in the workforce across industries and functions, is a common theme to thrive in the new normal,” Deloitte said. About 72% of CXOs believe that the role of the team lead is going to be the most important in leading the organisation through the change, and that their managers are stepping up to the task. Deloitte surveyed and had virtual one-on-one conversations with CXOs from 42 Indian organisations. About 75% of CXOs said they already had tools for collaboration – like Zoom, MS Teams and WebEx – in the firm and did not have to make new investments during the crisis. However, 55% CXOs said their IT infrastructure (availability of hardware, internet and remote access) fell short of facilitating a smooth transition to remote working. Shortage of desktops/laptops, lack of VPN access, restriction due to onsite software, lack of data cards are some of the top reasons cited for business disruption. Most firms rolled out policies for broadband and data reimbursements to enable the workforce to stay connected. Some organisations are considering increasing the share of gig workers as others reduce dependence in favour of full-time workforce. About 80% of the organisations Deloitte spoke to currently have less than 10% of their workforce base on alternative working models, largely limited to contractors. About 40% of CXOs have already initiated a review of how roles can be redesigned to minimise attachment to physical assets. Organisations that started implementing remote working (before the national lockdown was announced) were better prepared to handle the situation, with only 10% of them reporting productivity drops. Most of them formed teams comprising HR, IT and others that prepared for large-scale migration of workforce onto virtual working models, including preparing for IT infrastructure, establishing workforce guidelines, training on virtual tools, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/employees-work-more-take-less-leaves-deloitte/articleshow/75564327.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||No business and industrial activities in textile town||Kolhapur: Business and industrial activities in the textile town of Ichalkaranji have remained shut even though it has been included in the orange zone. The densely populated town, with population of around 2.88 lakh, on Sunday reported its fourth Covid-19 positive patient. The areas where positive patients have been found have been sealed and declared containment zones. District collector Daulat Desai said, "After one person was found positive for Covid-19, we have asked the local administration to be alert. Some restrictions have been relaxed in the district from May 4 as per the government rules but we expect that the lockdown in Ichalkaranji will continue as it is. We may have to tighten the restriction if people do not follow the rules and advisory issued by the local administration." Vikas Kharat, sub-divisional officer (Ichalkaranji), said, "Orders have been issued to the health department officials to conduct door-to-door survey and prepare the list of the people that came in contact with the new positive patient." An industrialist from the textile town said, "The government has relaxed norms for industries that fall in the MIDC area and not in the areas falling under the municipal council or municipal corporation. Almost all the processing units and power looms in Ichalkaranji are concentrated in Ichalkaranji town. With the chances of spread of coronavirus pandemic the industrialists are not keen on starting operations. But some want to start operations so that the migrant workers that are in mood of leaving to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh will stay back."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-business-and-industrial-activities-in-textile-town/articleshow/75564318.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 6, 2020||Goa||Exodus will impact local industry: GCCI||PANAJI: The Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry said on Tuesday that unchecked migration will hamper the functioning of local industries, construction and agriculture in Goa, sectors completely dependent on migrant workers. GCCI president Manoj Caculo wrote to the chief minister on Monday saying that while the state’s role in making travel arrangements for stranded migrant workers was a “great humanitarian initiative”, the departure of the workers would leave “employers high and dry”. “While this is a great humanitarian initiative, we would like to point out that unchecked migration will have an adverse impact on some of the local industries, construction sector and agriculture, which depend on migrant workers,” said Caculo. Caculo said that many migrants were provided with shelter, food and wages during the lockdown period and were “not really stranded in the true sense”. “Now that they are getting a free ride to their home states, many of these workers have left their employers high and dry and are making their way home,” said Caculo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-exodus-will-impact-local-industry/articleshow/75565041.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Head of workers’ body helps reach out to families in labour camps across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: When the lockdown was first announced, several authorities were left scratching their heads over identifying migrant workers residing in the city and without ration cards. That is when the services of P Rama Rao, president of Hyderabad building workers and other construction workers association, came in handy. With the state willing to give 12 kilos of rice to each family along with Rs 500 cash, Rama Rao helped state and municipal authorities reach out to over 3,000 construction workers’ families and another 3,000 families from poor backgrounds in areas such as Tolichowki, Karwan, Gudimalkapur, Ziaguda, Medhipatnam, Mallepalli which house several labourers. Several NGOs also took Rama Rao’s help to reach out to poor families and distribute essentials like rice, groceries and vegetables. Hyderabad city civil court authorities have also taken him as a paralegal volunteer to take judicial services to the doorsteps of those in need. “We will represent to the authorities first and if the resolution was not forthcoming, then I will involve legal authorities who will question the bureaucrats and get things done,” Rama Rao told TOI. “My job is to act like a bridge between the needy, the authorities and the judiciary which has many legal schemes to assist the poor,” he added. “He (Rama Rao) assists legal services authorities of Hyderabad city civil court in taking the legal services to the poor,” said Venugopal, superintendent of legal services authority at city civil courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/head-of-workers-body-helps-reach-out-to-families-in-labour-camps-across-city/articleshow/75564335.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 6, 2020||Goa||Migrant labourers restless, eager to return home: Goa cops||PANAJI: Owing to the extended lockdown that has left many of them unemployed and apprehensive, migrants residing in Goa are now showing signs of restlessness and are eager to return to home as quickly as possible, Goa police has said. Of the 3.5 lakh migrant workers in the state, nearly 80,000 have already registered themselves with the authorities seeking permission to return home. Speaking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police Edwin Colaco on Tuesday said that with the Centre easing restrictions and allowing people stranded in different parts of the country to return to their native places, most of the migrant labourers who had made Goa their home now wish to go back. “Even though the government has introduced an online facility for registering migrant workers to facilitate their return home, many of them are restless as they want to leave quickly,” Colaco said. He also said information, mostly false and unverified, regarding the reopening of state borders to facilitate the return of migrants is being circulated on social media platforms. “Such messages create a sense of panic among migrant labourers, and in an effort not to miss the opportunity to return home in these troubled, some migrants have even made abortive bids to leave the state, sometimes by undertaking journeys on foot to far-flung railway stations to board a train,” Colaco said. While the state government has made necessary provisions to facilitate those desirous of returning home, police stations in the north district under the supervision of Utkrisht Prasoon, superintendent of police, North have undertaken a massive exercise to extend necessary assistance to labourers staying in different pockets within their jurisdictions. “Along with the sub-divisional police officers and police inspectors of every police station in North Goa, I have visited all places where migrants from different states are currently residing. They have been explained about the measures being undertaken by the state government to help them travel home. They have also been requested not to fall prey to fake and unverified news being circulated in social media,” Prasoon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrant-labourers-restless-eager-to-return-home-cops/articleshow/75565047.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||37 SRPF jawans, nurse test positive in Hingoli||Aurangabad: A total of 37 jawans of Hingoli SRPF and a nurse have tested positive for Covid-19 between Monday night and Tuesday evening, taking the number of patients affected by the contagion to 91 in Hingoli district. The 24-year-old nurse who tested positive on Monday night is from the Hingoli district civil hospital. District civil surgeon Kishor Prasad Shrivas said that 22 jawans of Hingoli SRPF, who were on duty in Mumbai, tested positive for coronavirus late on Monday night, 14 on Tuesday morning and another on Tuesday evening. “Altogether, 83 jawans from Hingoli SRPF and one from Jalna have been confirmed with Covid-19 in Hingoli district. All of them are being treated in the isolation ward of the district civil hospital, Hingoli” said Shrivas. “Of the 84 jawans infected by the virus, 35 were on duty at Malegaon in Nashik and 48 were posted in Mumbai.” Incidentally, 107 jawans and 87 jawans of platoon number 12 of Hingoli SRPF had returned to Hingoli from Malegaon in Nashik and Mumbai on April 19 and 20 respectively. Subsequently, they were sent to the quarantine centre in the Hingoli SRPF camp. The first group of SRPF men were detected with coronavirus on April 22. The district administration had subsequently started tracing the people who came in contact with them, leading to more people testing positive for Covid-19. Currently, 90 coronavirus patients are being treated at the isolation ward of the Hingoli district civil hospital. One person has been discharged after he recovered from the disease. According to the district civil surgeon Shrivas, the remaining 110 jawans have been quarantined in hotels in Hingoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/37-srpf-jawans-nurse-test-positive-in-hingoli/articleshow/75563381.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 6, 2020||Chennai||NHAI resumes three major projects in Chennai||CHENNAI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has resumed three major road projects in Chennai region after the Centre eased resrtrictions it had put in place for the lockdown. The estimated cost of these projects is Rs 2,800 crore. Sources in NHAI said they have obtained permission from Trichy district administration to resume four-laning of Trichy-Kallam section of NH 209 (new number 83) connecting Dindigul and Bengaluru. The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs 1,020 crore. “We have engaged around 200 labourers, including migrant workers, in the road projects. They have been working in groups in different locations along Trichy-Kallam section,” a senior NHAI official said. Work of Kallagam-Meenuritti section of Trichy-Chidambaram NH 227 has also started. The project cost is Rs 1,071 crore. About 240 workers are engaged in the work. “In the absence of migrant workers, the concessionaires of the project are trying to get workers from local area,” said the official. The NHAI officials have been organising raw material to complete the balance work of Tindivanam-Krishnagiri section also, being implemented at a cost of Rs 435 crore. “We will soon resume work on Tindivanam-side of the project,” said another official. The four-laning of 26km stretch of Pollachi-Coimbatore section of NH 209 is nearing completion. Coimbatore district administration gave permission to start the work on April 16. The executing agency has to complete the Rs 414 crore work before lockdown is lifted. “We have effectively used the lockdown period and completed 97.94% of the road works, particularly works at junctions, though the workforce is less than 60%,” said an official attached to NHAI’s Coimbatore project unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nhai-resumes-three-major-projects/articleshow/75564342.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 6, 2020||Goa||Panaji stores follow odd-even schedule||Panaji: A day after the prime city’s commercial establishments reopened following lockdown 2.0, stores have started following the odd-even schedule. Shop numbers ending with digits 1 to 9 and digits 0 to 8 will operate on alternate days. Goa which has entered lockdown 3.0 along with the rest of the country is one of the lucky few areas to be declared as a green zone thus enabling the opening of select shops in the markets. These are the shops situated outside the Panaji municipal market complex. Today, 50% shops were allowed to open while the remaining will be permitted on Wednesday. “Businesses have been shut for over a month which has affected all the shop owners. If we intend to bounce back, we must ensure all guidelines are followed,” said Rajendra Damaskar, president of the Panaji municipal market tenants’ association. “The shopkeepers will ensure that social distancing is maintained by buyers. Some have even marked boxes outside the stores to indicate the distance while queuing. They will start shutting the stores between 6.30pm and 7pm to keep with the timings. The shop owners will ensure that their stations are self-sanitized,” he said. The odd-even schedule will be adapted for the kiosks inside the Panaji municipal market complex as well. “We are planning to open the complex in a few days. The odd-even schedule will be put in place for the businesses inside very soon,” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. This 50-50 basis every alternate day will continue till the lockdown ends on May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-stores-follow-odd-even-schedule/articleshow/75565049.cms||Nida Sayed
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Government school teachers to learn ‘Python’||COIMBATORE: The state school education department is planning to conduct online training sessions on ‘Python’, a programming language, for computer teachers in government and government-aided schools. The state has decided to make use of the lockdown period to train teachers online as the language has been included in the new computer syllabus. A communication from the director of school education to chief education officers and district education officers across the state said a two-week faculty development workshop on ‘problem solving using Python’ would be held for teachers. The ‘bootcamp’ has been planned in order to help students acclimatize with the programming language early. When contacted, S Kannappan,director of school education, said the programming language has been included in the new computer science textbooks for higher secondary classes. “So far, computer teachers in government and government aided schools have been learning the language themselves and then teaching it to students. So we thought of making use of the lockdown to conduct an online training programme for them,” he told TOI. The official said there were around 2,000 computer science teachers in government schools. The communication has been sent to headmasters of the schools through the CEOs and DEOs, he said. The sessions would be held for 12 days from 9.00am to 11.00am, said the communication. The teachers would complete 10 real-time exercises, it said, and added the schedule of the training programme could get altered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-school-teachers-to-learn-python/articleshow/75564334.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Non-essential standalone shops to open from today||Kolhapur: Non-essential standalone shops will start operations in the city from Wednesday with the district administration and traders reaching a consensus on Tuesday. The Centre had ordered the states to allow all standalone shops in the orange-zone districts. The state government, however, added a rider that only five shops — preferably those selling essential goods — will be allowed to open along a road or a lane. On Tuesday, it was clarified that five non-essential standalone shops and all essentials shops will be allowed to open from Wednesday. On Tuesday, the traders submitted a suggestion about allowing shops to operate alternately on odd and even days. Accordingly, a consensus was reached that the shops facing east and south will be allowed on even days, while those facing west and north will be allowed on odd days. However, there are many shops that face in between these directions. Sanjay Shete, the president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, “We had kept the shops shut for the past two days as there was no clarification on the orders passed by the state and central governments. We have now agreed upon an odd-even formula. Now, at least 50% of the shops will open on any given day till the lockdown is in place.” The KCCI has asked the traders bodies to prepare a list of the shops that will be open on odd and even days. The list will be given to the district administration. Those who open their shops every day will have to face action. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said, “After some relaxations, we observed a rush on roads and public places. We were against allowing shops to open. But we have asked the traders to ensure that some rules are followed. Also, we have requested them to home-deliver non-essential goods if possible, instead of opening the shops. Almost 50% of the shops will open from Wednesday. We will see how it works out for a few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/non-essential-standalone-shops-to-open-from-today/articleshow/75564332.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Guidelines issued for industries||COIMBATORE: District collector K Rajamani has issued guidelines for industrial units in rural areas to function from Wednesday. In a communication on Tuesday, Rajamani said MSME units in rural areas can function without getting permission, while large industries can work with 50% of the workforce after getting permission from the collector. Industrial units in Sidco industrial estates at Kurichi and Malumichampatti, and electrical and electronics industrial estate at Kalapatti can function, and these need not get permission, the collector said in the communication. Meanwhile, he said, MSME units in city, jewellery making units, lathes, welding, and fitting units should not be operated. Large industries in city limits should not function. Private offices in rural and city areas should not function. Industrial units in containment zones should not function. Essential industries in the city limits, such as food and healthcare industries, export related industries and those in special economic zones can operate, after getting due permission. IT, ITES and hardware firms in city limits can function with 50% of the workforce after getting the collector's permission. Textile industrial units in Anaimalai, Annur, Gudalur, Irugur, Kannampalayam. Karamadai, Karumathampatti, Kottur, Madukkarai, Narasimhanaickenpalayam, Perianaickenpalayam, Sooleswaranpatti, Sulur, Vedapatti, Vellalore, Vettaikaranpudur, Zamin Uthukkuli, can operate with 50% workforce after getting permission. Printing presses in rural and city areas can function. For clarifications, contact the District Industries Centre at 0422-2391678 or 9840566320. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guidelines-issued-for-industries/articleshow/75564331.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Ill-planned’ rescue op for leopard draws ire of activists||Aurangabad: The frequent sighting of a leopard in the Babhalgaon village in Latur district for the past few days has prompted the forest department to trap the big cat from the farms after mounting pressure from locals and political leaders.The decision, however, has not gone down well with wildlife activists. Animal rights activist Sangeeta Dogra said a leopard or a tiger could be trapped only when it is found consistently attacking humans in a particular area—that too with the permission from the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF).“We cannot conclude that leopards need to be trapped just because they are being spotted in farms or around human habitation. Such an action can be a violation of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. We have appealed to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change to reprimand the Latur forest authorities and foil their ill-planned rescue operation,” said Dogra.In a letter to the Central and state authorities, Dogra has highlighted that wild animals strayed out in summer frequently, which was an indication that either they were chasing a prey or in search of water. “Where Latur has major water crisis, this is a wildlife and forest conservation issue. It is the sole responsibility of the state and central governments, which are failing to address the issue of man-animal conflict,” said Dogra. Machhindra Gaikwad, district forest officer for Osmanabad (which has jurisdiction over Latur district), said the standard operating procedure would be followed while handling the issue of leopard sighting in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ill-planned-rescue-op-for-leopard-draws-ire-of-activists/articleshow/75563394.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Liquor shops told to implement token system||KOLHAPUR: The district excise department has asked liquor shop operators to use a token system to reduce crowding of people looking to buy alcohol. On Tuesday, out of the 19 liquor shops in the city, only three located in commercial complexes and markets were not allowed to operate. As the number of liquor shops open on Tuesday was more than the number of shops open on Monday, the crowding was slightly less. The excise department had deployed its staff in uniform, along with police personnel, to regulate the crowd and in most places, social distancing was followed. District superintendent of excise department Ganesh Patil took to the streets and ensured that the social distancing was maintained. After the experience on Monday, the shops marked circles six feet apart for customers to stand in. “The shop owners were warned that if there was a problem, action will be taken against them. On Monday, we filed a police case against the operator of one shop and, therefore, the rest of others were more careful on Tuesday. We have asked the shop operators to use a token system. The tokens will be collected from the customers, which will have brands and quantity of liquor mentioned on them,” said Patil. The experts and activists have advised the district administration to not to allow the liquor shops to open since the rush and the gathering may lead to a risk of virus spread. Congress MLA Chandrakant Jadhav has written to the state government to not allow the opening of liquor shops. Some district administrations have decided to close the shops after the reports of chaos in their respective jurisdictions. Patil said that some suggestions are being made to get the identity of the customers registered so that they can be traced easily if any customers or staff at any liquor shop is tested positive. Meanwhile, barbershops continued to remain shut on Tuesday. A senior district official said, “We found that none of them was using new towels, scissors and other things. A large number of cases have reported in other countries through some negligence in spas and salons. Therefore we have asked the barber association to keep shops shut till further orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/liquor-shops-told-to-implement-token-system/articleshow/75564337.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||100 of 1,500-odd private buses resume service||Panaji: After over a month of being of the road, private buses resumed operations in the state on Tuesday. However, fewer buses were seen on the roads. Moreover, not all were equipped with sanitizers and thermal scanners. Private operators are pleading an exemption from this practice. Of the 1,500-odd private buses in total, only 100 buses were operational with two buses plying per route. There are a total of 50 routes in the state. “The aim was to start at least two buses on each route since there are only a few commuters,” All Goa Bus Owners’ Association president Shiva Kambli said. As lockdown restrictions slowly ease up, the state government has imposed a 50% capacity reduction on buses and a fixed time slot, 7am to 7pm, for operation.  Anticipating poor passenger response, some operators are hesitant to resume services fearing that the fare collected wouldn’t compensate for the fuel cost. “People are not completely confident about using public transport. There’s no point in keeping a bus plying all day for a small number of passengers,” one bus owner said. Safety precautions too remain a concern. While the Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTC), which threw open its services a day prior to the private bus operators, is scanning passengers using hand-held thermal scanning devices, private operators want to be exempted from this practice. “Everyone cannot afford to have a thermal scanner on board. Sanitizers can be kept, but that is up to individual bus owners,” Kambli said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/100-of-1500-odd-private-buses-resume-service/articleshow/75565054.cms||Nida Sayed
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Amanmani case: Will wait for police report before further action, says state govt||Dehradun/Bijnor: In the case involving arrest of independent UP MLA Amanmani Tripathi and six of his aides for violating lockdown and trying to travel to Badrinath and Kedarnath on a false pretext, the Uttarakhand government on Tuesday said it will wait for the police report before taking any action. A court in UP’s BIjnor, meanwhile, granted bail to Tripathi and his aides, following which, they were quarantined in the district for 14 days. Asked about a letter signed by Uttarakhand additional chief secretary Om Prakash to the Dehradun district magistrate (a copy of which is with TOI) asking him to grant Tripathi and his aides permission to travel to the shrine towns, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “Law will take its course and we will wait for the police report. The matter is being probed by Uttarakhand police.” The MLA had claimed that he was crossing the border to perform post-cremation rites of UP CM Yogi Adityanath's father, Anand Singh Bisht, who had passed away recently. The UP CM’s family, however, refuted the claim. Yogi Adityanath’s younger brother Mahendra Singh Bisht told TOI, “We do not know him. We are also not aware who gave him the permission to travel. The family members are carrying out the post-cremation rituals of our father at our native Panchur village in Pauri district.” The UP government had earlier issued a clarification saying that neither had the CM authorised Tripathi to go to Uttarakhand on his behalf nor had the state government given him permission to do so. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said that he met chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Tuesday evening and sought a high level probe into the matter. "How can an inspector or sub-inspector probe a matter involving an additional chief secretary level officer. We want a probe by a retired judge as this is an extremely serious issue," he said, adding that “while people were making so many sacrifices for over one month to make the lockdown a success, rules were openly flouted to give permission to a few influential people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amanmani-case-will-wait-for-police-report-before-further-action-says-state-govt/articleshow/75563416.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 6, 2020||Business||Relying on one public cloud not good: IBM CEO||Bengaluru: IBM CEO Arvind Krishna said hybrid cloud and AI are the two dominant forces driving digital transformation. “Relying on only one infrastructure, like one public cloud, locks you in. Perhaps, more importantly, it locks you into one company’s innovation. So, hybrid cloud is about giving you the choice and the freedom to host your own software,” said Krishna at IBM’s Think 2020 client and developer conference. The conference is being held virtually between Tuesday and Thursday. Krishna emphasised how AI is permeating everything that companies and individuals do. “Every company will become an AI company, not because they can, they must. AI is the only way to scale innovation,” he said. At the event, IBM announced AI-powered capabilities and services that are designed to help CIOs automate their IT infrastructures to be more resilient to future disruptions and to help reduce costs. Market intelligence firm IDC predicts that by 2024, enterprises that are powered by AI will be able to respond to customers, competitors, regulators, and partners 50% faster than those that are not using AI. IBM also unveiled IBM Watson AIOps, a new offering that uses AI to automate how enterprises self-detect, diagnose and respond to IT anomalies in real-time. Unforeseen IT incidents and outages can cost businesses in both revenue and reputation. Market research firm Aberdeen pegs an outage at about $260,000/hour. Watson AIOps enables organisations to introduce automation at the infrastructure level and is designed to help CIOs better predict and shape future outcomes, focus resources on higher-value work and build more responsive and intelligent networks that can stay up and running longer. Krishna also rolled out IBM Cloud Satellite that allows clients to run workloads where it makes sense for them. Jason McGee, IBM Fellow and CTO wrote in a blogpost that this new service gives the ability to use IBM Cloud anywhere, delivered as-a-service from a single pane of glass, controlled through the public cloud. Unlike other public clouds, IBM Cloud is architected with an open source Kubernetes foundation for greater portability to IBM Cloud Satellite locations, the company said. IBM and Red Hat launched new edge computing solutions for the 5G era where enterprises and telcos can deploy and manage AI, IoT and analytics workloads seamlessly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/relying-on-one-public-cloud-not-good-ibm-ceo/articleshow/75564340.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||81% want relaxations in red zones, barring 14 high virus load districts||Nagpur: Even as the government is getting ready to take a decision on how to proceed after the third phase of lockdown comes to an end on May 17, 81% citizens have supported relaxations in curbs with Covid-19 distancing norms at offices, shops etc in red zones. With people starting to believe that they will have to learn to co-exist along with coronavirus for a long time, LocalCircles, India’s leading community social media platform which helps governments make policies, conducted a survey to get citizens’ pulse on what should happen post May 17. The survey conducted last week received more than 21,000 votes from people residing in 277 districts. While 81% favoured relaxations in red zones, 45% citizens are in favour of continuing full lockdown for 2 weeks after May 17 in top 14 high virus load districts. Only 15% citizens said they are likely to travel in the next 3 months. Akshay Gupta, general manager of LocalCircles, Delhi, said that citizens were asked what should be the lockdown relaxation approach for 14 high virus load districts that are also among the red zones with over 500 Covid-19 active cases. In response, 45% said full lockdown should continue for two more weeks in these districts, 19% said it should be significantly relaxed and all offices, markets, businesses be allowed to operate with Covid-19 distancing norms, while 35% said lockdown should be somewhat relaxed and only offices at 33% capacity and standalone shops should be permitted to open. “In the survey conducted on May 3, 74% citizens had said that high virus load districts should be kept under complete lockdown and no relaxations should be given there. This number has come down to 45% as on May 12,” Gupta said. Many citizens have also raised concerns about the approach undertaken to unlock high virus load districts. People are in support of relaxations in green and orange zones as well as in low virus load red zones. But, they are greatly concerned about how some high virus load districts are being treated at par with other red zone districts in terms of relaxations. High virus load districts as identified by the Niti Aayog included 14 districts where the intensity and number of Covid-19 cases are more than 500. They include Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Pune, Indore, Thane, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Surat, Kolkata, Agra, Hyderabad and Bhopal. Many citizens have specifically stated that given the urgent need to restart economic activity, a close watch must be kept on all these districts and as soon as they fall into regular red zone category, the relaxations should start applying. For other 115 plus red zones (beyond high virus load districts), 24% said lockdown should be significantly relaxed and all offices, markets, businesses should be allowed to operate with Covid-19 distancing norms. Altogether 33% said lockdown should be only somewhat relaxed and only offices at 33% capacity and standalone shops should be permitted to open. However, 16% said full lockdown should continue for 2 weeks and 3% citizens did not have an opinion. On opening airlines, trains and buses for operations, how do they foresee personal travel in the coming 3 months? 9% people said they will not travel at all, 72% said they will not travel unless it is an absolute emergency, 11% said they will surely travel, while 4% said they are likely to travel. “LocalCircles will be escalating these findings to key stakeholders in the Central government and various state governments so they can be considered and if found fit, be incorporated in the lockdown approach undertaken post May 17,” said Gupta. Survey demographics 21,000 plus responses were received from over 12,500 citizens located in over 228 districts of India 63% respondents were males while 37% respondents were females 63% respondents were from tier 1, 22% from tier 2 and 15% respondents were from tier 3 and beyond locations Survey was conducted via LocalCircles platform and all participants are validated citizens registered with LocalCircles||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/81-want-relaxations-in-red-zones-barring-14-high-virus-load-districts/articleshow/75705651.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Cement price up by Rs 100/bag, association seek govt intervention for rollback||CHENNAI: In another setback to the construction sector, which is reeling under the effect of the lockdown, cement manufactures hiked prices in the retail market by up to Rs 100 per bag on Tuesday. The move has reignited support for the long pending demand for a government-led authority to regulate cement rates. Hardware retailers dealing with cement in the city said leading brands have hiked the price of 53 grade cement bags, each weighing 50kg and containing have Portland Pozzolana cement (PPC), by Rs 60 a bag. Regular brands have increased prices by Rs 100. The rate of Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) of regular brands jumped to Rs 60. The current price for premium brand PPC ranges from Rs 365 to Rs 395, while OPC is sold for Rs 375 to Rs 410 a bag. Damodaran, a cement dealer at Vinayagapuram near Retteri, is unsure of how to proceed after such a steep increase of the key construction material. “A customer placed an order for 20 bags of cement with the old rates before the lockdown period and has made the payment. Now, I cannot sell him cement with previous rates because I will incur losses,” he said.  Dealers said the sudden hike, which came as a surprise, was notified on May 1. Cement prices were revised in February last year, when rates for bulk purchasers was also revised by Rs 70. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Tamil Nadu chapter president elect Suresh Krishn said the cartelisation of cement is a blow for the sector. “This will increase the cost of construction. Increasing the rates by Rs 100 per bag at a time when the construction sector is in doldrums was unacceptable and we want the government's intervention to rollback the prices,” he said. Small developers and those building independent houses would be worst hit. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said a regulatory body on the lines of TRAI was the only solution to maintain cement prices. When contacted sources in the cement industry said producers have not revised the price. “At the trade level, cement prices may have seen some increase due to greater demand now compared to reduced supply in Chennai and other Tamil Nadu markets. Prices are expected to stabilize once the supply from plants in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh increases,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cement-price-up-by-rs-100/bag-assns-seek-govt-intervention-for-rollback/articleshow/75564360.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 6, 2020||Business||Reliance Industries plans to buy e-pharmacy Netmeds||BENGALURU: Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries is in advanced discussions to acquire a majority stake in online pharmacy Netmeds as part of its broader play in commerce, said three sources familiar with the development. The deal may see Reliance, through one of its subsidiaries, pay $130-150 million for the asset, which may also include a fresh infusion to expand the operations, said one of the sources mentioned earlier. “The deal is happening at a slight premium to their last funding round valuation,” said the source. Netmeds, which started operations in 2015, has till date announced three rounds of funding totalling about $100 million. The company was started by Pradeep Dadha, whose family was one of the first distributors for Sun Pharmaceuticals. The distribution business was later acquired by Sun Pharma. Besides Dadha’s family office, the Netmeds backers include healthcare investor OrbiMed, investment bank MAPE Advisory, Sistema Asia Fund and Singapore-based Daun Penh Cambodia Group. “As a policy, we do not comment on media speculation and rumours. Our company evaluates various opportunities on an ongoing basis,” said a Reliance spokesperson, adding that it will inform exchanges according to Sebi on any developments. “It would not be productive to comment on media speculations at this stage,” said Dadha in an emailed response, while adding that Netmeds has tied up with Reliance Retail for supplying essentials like groceries to its customers. The conversations between Reliance and Netmeds, which had also held talks with Walmart-owned Flipkart, had been going on before the coronavirus lockdown, sources said. This will be the second major move by Reliance in the pharma sector as last year it acquired 82% in Bengaluru-based C-Square Info Solutions, which makes software for distributors, retailers and sales force in the pharma sector, for a total of Rs 82 crore. Some of the clients of the company include Apollo Pharmacy, Adcock Ingram and other players. The development comes as Reliance is ramping up it’s online-to-offline (O2O) commerce business, first with grocery with the tie-up between Reliance Retail and WhatsApp last month. That deal came after WhatsApp’s parent company Facebook agreed to invest $5.7 billion for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, the telecom and digital services business of Reliance. Netmeds generates 90% of its revenue from prescription medicine and over-the-counter drugs. This is similar to other medicine delivery platforms like 1MG, Medlife and Pharmeasy who drive 80-90% of their revenue from selling medicine, focused on chronic customers who make repeat purchases regularly. Last year, Netmeds announced it would add a dozen new warehouses to take the total to 26 as it expanded across India. A RedSeer report in February said it has a base of 6 lakh monthly transacting users. According to the RedSeer report, a market research firm, the e-pharma industry, including consultancy and diagnostics, is about $1.2 billion. This is expected to reach about $16 billion in five years. While over 4 million households were already opting for buying medicine online, this space has become one of the few beneficiaries of the virus outbreak as more consumers are opting to buy medicine online. By the middle of March, e-pharmacy platforms saw a strong spike in sales of masks and sanitisers. 1MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon had said sales of these products were up by 10-20 times before the virus outbreak. “Order volumes are still higher than before Covid-19. But going forward, we are looking at supply issues and manpower crunch to meet the rising demand,” said CEO of another e-pharma platform. Typically, consumers on average transact 1.5-2 times from these companies, while average ticket size of purchase is Rs 1,400-1,700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-plans-to-buy-e-pharmacy-netmeds/articleshow/75564362.cms||Madhav Chanchani
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PG medical aspirants in disarray after government order to nearly double fee in pvt colleges||HYDERABAD: Only a step away from pursuing her post-graduation in anaesthesiology, 26-year-old Ayesha Shaik was all set for the web option in the first phase of PG medical counselling. However, she is now left contemplating her options following a government order (GO) on Monday that nearly doubled the fee for PG medical seats in private colleges. “Getting a PG medical seat is a big thing for anyone. But right now, I am not able to figure out whether or not to give web options,” said Ayesha, who was prepared to pay Rs 3.5 lakh per annum, and questioned as to why the GO was not made public much earlier. The 26-year-old, who attempted the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) for the second time this year, said that there was no way she could arrange Rs 7 lakh by May 7 and may have to settle for a non-clinical degree. Like Ayesha, there are several aspirants who are now left with no option but to pursue non-clinical or para-clinical degrees, a Diplomate of National Board (DNB) or re-appear for Neet next year. “Despite preparing hard for the examination and securing a good rank, I won’t be able to fulfil my dream of becoming an obstetrician,” said A Nikita who was planning to pursue an MD in obstetrics and gynaecology. She said that if she made a compromise on the branch, she may get a seat through the convenor quota in a government college. Aspirants said they will seek judicial help on the matter and asked as to why no fee-hike clause is applicable to them like they are for schools, IITs and NITs.  They claimed that such a move will have an adverse impact on the entire healthcare system.  Meanwhile, officials of the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) said that it was normal procedure to upload GO on fee along with the seat matrix at the time of releasing notification. They said the any decision on fee hike needs to come from the state and that nothing could be done at the varsity level. In 2017, the state had passed a similar order hiking fee of PG courses. However, doctors challenged the move in court stating that the government did not follow the due process of appointing the Telangana Admissions and Fee Regulatory Committee (TAFRC) and hence should not be implemented. Fee cases pertaining to 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 are still pending in high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-medical-aspirants-in-disarray-after-govt-order-to-nearly-double-fee-in-pvt-colleges/articleshow/75564364.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||In Nainital, rain, hail wilt umbrellas but not tipplers’ resolve||Nainital: Torrential rain and an unexpected pelting of hail could not dampen the spirits of liquor buyers in Nainital on Tuesday. Hundreds of them stood firm – disciplined almost like soldiers – and did not leave their spots in the queue even as their umbrellas wilted and the hill town was covered in white in a matter of minutes. The freak weather forced even the policemen on duty to take cover in their vehicles or nearby shops initially. The liquor stores in Nainital had finally opened on Tuesday after a gap of 40 days. Buyers had begun to gather outside the shops since morning. Soon, they formed queues on their own, some of which were really long, and began to wait for their turn patiently. The weather, however, took a turn at noon. A drizzle suddenly turned into a freak pelting of hail, some of them bigger than the size of marbles, followed by gusty winds and a short spell of torrential rain that lasted for half an hour. “By that time, there were hundreds of people standing in queues. The lines stretched from the liquor shop to the rickshaw stand around 200 metres away. However, the rain, hail and below 15-degree Celsius temperature together did not deter the tipplers many of whom did not have even umbrellas,” an onlooker said. A police team was also present on the spot to maintain law and order. By Tuesday evening, videos of tipplers maintaining queues amid lashing rain and hailstorm went viral on social media. Speaking with TOI, Hari Kant, the owner of the liquor store at Mall Road, said that people maintained strict social distancing throughout the day. “The police and district administration had drawn up circles on the road on Monday and we made sure that people stood in those spots. We asked the customers to form two lines and they stood in those queues obediently. A police team was also stationed near the store,” he said. Kant said that only one person allowed at the store window at a time and hand sanitisers were offered to the buyers first. “The business on Tuesday was good,” the store owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-nainital-rain-hail-wilt-umbrellas-but-not-tipplers-resolve/articleshow/75563450.cms||Prashant Jha
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||D’gere has 12 more new cases||Davanagere: As many as 12 new Covid- 19 cases were confirmed from Davanagere city alone on Tuesday taking the number of cases to 44 with three deaths and two patients who recovered. Interestingly, five of these patients who tested positive on were contacts of P 556, a 69- year- old man from Jalinagar area in Davanagere who died on on May 1. Besides, seven other confirmed cases were contacts of P 581, a 3 -year-old woman, residing in Jalinagar. Containment zone : KTJ Nagar where P 665 lives is a new containment zone, in addition to other four containment zones which include: Jagaligar, Bhashanagar, Imam Nagar, Bethur road. Meanwhile, there were public announcements by villagers of Chatnihalli in Harapanahalli taluk asking residents not to go to Davanagere city or allow anyone from Davanagere city' to their villages, in view of the sike in Covid- 19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dgere-has-12-more-new-cases/articleshow/75561929.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘It’s safe inside’: Court denies bail to prisoners||AHMEDABAD: A local court has denied bail to some prisoners with observation that the prison is a safer place to be than roaming around free in the open during this Covid-19 pandemic, for prisoners are under direct supervision of authorities. Any movement “back and forth” from jail is imprudent. Mohammed Aziz Shaikh, imprisoned for alleged drug peddling, had urged the court to release him from jail for few days so that ‘his presence in the family will amount to psychological solace to his family’ in the troubled time of pandemic. Additional sessions judge S D Dave refused him bail but not without a reason that the prisoner is safer in jail. The judge said that the beginning of this century was free from any major international turmoil until Covid-19 gripped the world. “India is into a lockdown and the human created world is into an impasse. Amidst the standstill of the endless human interaction that envelope the human life, it appears from the application that the applicant presents no extraordinary reason for this court to set him at large on temporary bail with all movements being chilled until the larger human issues resolve,” the court said. The court further said, “The tenancy of prison will be with a direct supervision of authorities giving a reasonable anticipation for it to be a safer place. Any movement of prisoner back and forth the outside world is imprudent. The difficulties of human life are unending and can find a resolution after the prevailing situation mitigates.” Besides, the court also took into the consideration the type of offence the prisoner was charged with. Similarly, the same court denied temporary bail to another alleged drug peddlers Abdul Imran Shaikh and Amit Shah, and POCSO accused Shailesh Dholi and Karan Chauhan. They all had put forth Covid-19 pandemic as a ground to go out to help their families. The applications for temporary bail are heard after the Supreme Court asked the state governments to reduce burden on jails by releasing prisoners in lighter offences during Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown. Accordingly, a high power committee recommended a category but offences of only falling under the Indian Penal Code, and not for any special laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/its-safe-inside-court-denies-bail-to-prisoners/articleshow/75564379.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna Nagar cops calm Ooty man panicking over Covid-19 +ve test||CHENNAI: Saravanan* was going about his usual business ferrying goods on his truck when he received a call that induced in him a terrible sense of panic. The 35-year-old from Ooty was just crossing Anna Nagar tower around 2.30pm when a sub-inspector from Lovedale, Nilgiris, told him he had tested positive for Covid-19. Saravanan was inconsolable. He stopped his vehicle in the middle of the road and ran towards police from the Anna Nagar traffic enforcement division — who were checking vehicles at Anna Nagar tower point — begging them for help. He eventually sat on the road and began crying. It took police some time to console and then isolate him. Saravanan had reached Anna Nagar on Monday to load goods at the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies godown. The truck driver usually came to Koyambedu market to unload potatoes. Given the presence of a major cluster that originated from the market, officials were conducting a massive contact tracing operation. As part of this exercise, Saravanan was asked to give samples at his hometown. Since he did not exhibit any symptoms, he came to Chennai as usual for work. He had just finished loading the goods and was back behind the wheel when he received the call. Police were surprised to see a man running towards them and the last thing they expected was him to be Covid-positive. He tried to hand over his phone to the officers saying he was just told he had tested positive for the infection. Police asked him to disconnect the call and keep his phone away. They guided him to the shade and helped him calm down. Other personnel, meanwhile, cleared the area of other motorists. “It took quite some time to console him. His hands began to shiver,” said inspector Shakthivel from Anna Nagar traffic enforcement. Police noticed that he was terrified of the pandemic and feared that the panic could pose bigger risk to his health. Onlookers said officers spoke to him for around 30 minutes and that clearly made a huge difference as Saravanan began to relax and even drank the juice officers gave him. All this was done after officers donned necessary safety gear. The ambulance arrived at the spot around 3.30pm and took the patient to Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. The entire area was sprayed with disinfectant. The driver had come in contact with a few vehicles seized at the spot, so they too were cleaned with disinfectant. (*name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-nagar-cops-calm-ooty-man-panicking-over-ve-test/articleshow/75564380.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Citizens counsel migrants against leaving Goa||Margao: Concerned by prospects of a mass exodus of migrant labourers from Goa, voluntary organisations and individuals have come forward to counsel migrants against leaving the state. They have been reassuring them that the situation will improve, and have also been offering them help. Goa is largely dependent on the migrant workforce in virtually all sectors of the economy.“Ever since the lockdown, migrant labourers staying in Goa are left without any work. Besides, they are immensely concerned about their kin back home The situation has affected them psychologically too,” a senior officer in the South Goa district administration said. The state government has been compiling data of stranded migrants, but the mechanism put in place for the purpose has left many confused and agitated, sources said. “The migrants are eager to register themselves with the government administration and take the first available mode of transport, but are clueless over how to go about doing it. We have formed a group of volunteers who track down their bastis and help them in either filling up the forms for stranded migrants, or registering with the panchayats,” Ganesh Lamani, who heads the All Goa Banjara Youth Association, said. Many individuals are also contributing in cash and kind to labourers who have preferred staying put. Then there are others like Hitesh Patel and Dinanath Hidaduggi in Margao who offer psychological solace to migrants who are restless and eager to leave at the first opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-counsel-migrants-against-leaving-goa/articleshow/75565063.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private lab offers Covid-19 risk test, CCMB chief sceptical||HYDERABAD: If you are worried about Covid-19, then a diagnostic company now promises to provide DNA-based ‘immunity report’ — a Genomepatri — to check whether you are at risk of contracting it. City-based personal genomics company Mapmygenome claims to have studied seven lakh markers and, based on that data, they issue the immunity reports. But experts are sceptical about the efficacy of such tests, saying it was too early for such risk assessment as scientists are still struggling to understand the coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). It helps to know a person’s response to medications such as anti-malarial drug chloroquine and abacavir, which is part of the antiretroviral therapy for HIV/AIDS. “This is not a diagnostic test. The good immune response is key to defeating coronavirus. Genetic factors related to immunity play a significant role in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, and many genes have been tested for their association with infection,” Mapmygenome CEO Anu Acharya said. “We have been doing DNA-based tests to assess genetic risk factors for an array of immune system diseases. Lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, heart disease and other comorbidities that affect overall health status and immunity are covered. It’s called Genomepatri. An individual’s genetic response to a variety of drugs, including antivirals and antifungals is revealed.” But Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra is not ready to buy the explanation. “The claim that based on genome sequencing we can tell the resistance of persons to an infectious disease is premature,” Mishra told TOI.  also pointed out the need for good data. “We need a lot more data to tell confidently whether a person’s immune system is strong or weak.,” Mishra added. However, some who got the test done expressed satisfaction. “I got DNA analysis done a few months ago since my health insurance was covering it and found the report insightful. Now, I got a Covid risk report, which was generated based on my DNA data, which they have,” M Shreehsa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-lab-offers-covid-19-risk-test-ccmb-chief-sceptical/articleshow/75564447.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Vegetable vendor’s 4 other contacts test Covid-19 positive||LUCKNOW: Four more contacts of the Lalbagh vegetable vendor were found positive for novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday, taking number of his contacts diagnosed with Covid-19 to 10. The four cases were family members of a general store owner in Nazarbagh who was tested positive on May 3. The vegetable vendor, who was diagnosed with the disease on April 25, was a regular visitor to the general store. His other contacts found positive include his two family members and two Kaiserbagh vegetable wholesalers among others. “Swab samples of about 100 persons in Nazarbagh suspected to have come in contact with the vendor and the general store owner have been sent for tests,” said Dr KP Tripathi in charge of district infectious diseases control unit. The fifth case on Tuesday was of a 13-year-old girl from Macchali Mohal. It took city’s tally so far to 242. The girl's case was traced after two elder brothers were stopped at Lucknow-Barabanki border on May 3 while they were going to visit their mother suffering from Covid-19 and under treatment in Barabanki. The duo said they and their sister had visited their mother earlier as well, following which officers decided to test all five family members living in Lucknow. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said the girl’s report came on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vegetable-vendors-4-other-contacts-test-covid-19-ve/articleshow/75565064.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Contagious skin disease hits foxes in Desert National Park||JAIPUR: An outbreak of sarcoptic mange, a highly contagious skin disease, has been discovered among the desert fox population in the Desert National Park (DNP) of the state. In many regions of the park, environmentalists have observed the 30-35% of desert fox population is afflicted with the disease of which 5-8% have attained severe stage of infection (without hair on body). So far, 15 foxes have died. Wildlife experts explained sarcoptic mange as a skin disease caused by parasitic mites that burrow under the superficial layers of skin, causing itching, hair loss and skin damage. The infection severity peaks in summer. Dr Sumit Dookia , who conducted a study on the ecology of the desert fox said, “Mange is potentially lethal to the animals if left untreated . In the final stage, animal lose its appetite for hunting and always scratches its body. The final result is death due to maggot infection on deep scratches and hunger.” As per the state forest department wildlife census report, 2019, there are around 1,000 foxes of both species — Indian Fox and Desert Fox — in Jaisalmer district. The major areas of infection are Sanvtha (same camel mange area), Nedan, Sanavada, Lathi, Bhadariya, Odhaniya-Chacha, Dholiya (all in Pokhran block) and Sam, Sudasari, Ganga, Bidha, Jamra, Nimba, and few surrounding areas (all in Desert National Park). Researchers claimed, “Though Indian Fox is also present in same habitat, but none of them has been found with this infection. It might be a species specific mange, which needs to be identified.” The forest department, however, refuted the claims of deaths and widespread of disease. A senior forest official said, “Outside the DNP, we have observed mange in three foxes. Directions have been given to monitor the situation if infection is spreading in the desert fox,” he said. The Desert National Park covering an area of 3,162 sqkm is the largest protected area of the state. It is spread over Jaisalmer and Barmer districts. It also has human and cattle population inside and on it’s surroundings. Environmentalists also fear mange can be transferred to a domestic animal like a dog and vice-versa . “Scarcoptic mange is contagious to domestic dogs, but mostly through direct contact. It is treatable with topical or oral medications. It could also cause mild infections in humans. However, the disease is less intense, consisting of a mild form of dermatitis,” said veterinarian Dilip Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contagious-skin-disease-hits-foxes-in-desert-park/articleshow/75565066.cms||Ajay Singh
May 6, 2020||Goa||Govt not clear if any Goans on 64 flights back to India||PANAJI: It is not known whether any Goans stranded abroad will be among those brought back on the 64 flights to India as the passenger list is yet to be declared, the state government said. None of these flights will land at Goa international airport, Dabolim. The NRI commission has shared a list of around 2,700 Goans stranded abroad with the ministry of external affairs (MEA). These do not include seafarers who are on vessels at various ports and not on land. These have a longer wait ahead and could be brought back in the second phase via the sea route. “Blue collared workers, students and the poverty struck are expected to feature among the ‘compelling cases’ and be given priority on these flights. There are lakhs of people out there. Each flight will bring in 200 people. The MEA will share our list with the Indian missions abroad, which will ultimately decideon which ‘compelling cases’ are to be brought home by air,” director for NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza said. He said that several people stranded abroad have run out of money and are desperate and that hopefully they will get seats on these flights. If they land at any airports in other parts of India, it is left to be seen who will pay for their transportation back to Goa where they will be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-not-clear-if-any-goans-on-64-flights-back-to-india/articleshow/75565065.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Booze rush: Stores run dry as Kolkata polishes off old stock||KOLKATA: Most of the liquor stores in Kolkata went dry by early Tuesday evening as hundreds of tipplers — in many cases, multiple members of a family to pick maximum number of bottles — queued up outside the shops since early morning. Retailers fear if liquor continues to sell like this, Bevco — the state beverage corporation — will run out of stock by this weekend, forcing most shops to down their shutters again. “I made a business of Rs 4.8 lakhs and sold 400 litres of liquor in less than four hours on Tuesday. By 4pm, I was left with only a few bottles of scotch and vodka. Since all manufacturing units are still closed, the supply available with the Cossipore unit of Bevco that supplies booze to us will be over in the next six days,” said an off-shop owner in the Dalhousie area.  Helmets help tipplers maintain the queue and a liquor shop on GC Avenue plastered with notices to remind buyers of lockdown rulesThe second day of the booze-buying frenzy saw residents and cops develop unique ways to follow social distancing norms as many kept rucksacks and helmets at earmarked zones and remained seated in a shed. At some places, coupon system was introduced where buyers had to write their names on a piece of paper with a serial number and were allowed to queue up only after the shop opened. “Things were much in order on Tuesday, far better than the chaos we had experienced at some stores on Monday. Cops helped us a lot in maintaining the social distancing norms and on our part, we ensured that no one was sold liquor without masks and that each person got a maximum of two bottles,” said Shah Jahan Khan, who runs a chain of off-shops at premium areas like Ballygunge, Alipore and Esplanade. At some places, people even left home in groups, and just like pub-hopping, the group members got distributed queuing up outside multiple off shops to ensure they get to buy as much bottles as possible. “Six of our friends queued up at three different stores in Esplanade and Chandni Chowk. Together, we managed to buy 18 bottles,” said Mithoon Dutta, a resident of Shyambazar, now a containment zone. At Salt Lake, cops allowed only locals to buy booze and checked ID cards. Those from outside were told to leave. Some groups have even started house and terrace parties after being left high and dry without liquor for over five weeks. “I had waited with three other friends from 5am on Monday to buy booze. In the evening, we ended up drinking together and finishing the entire stock,” smiled Karan Kapoor, a resident of central Kolkata who was spotted queuing up outside a Bentinck Street store. Those in search of booze had a reason to justify their rush. “We have waited for 40 days. But if I wait more, the stocks might just dry up. I cannot take that chance,” said Soumaditya Banerjee, a resident of Rashbehari Avenue. Amidst all the excitement among tipplers, the cops had a tough time managing traffic, supplying food and essentials to those in need, feeding strays and maintaining queues outside liquor shops. “We had deputed around 12 policemen to maintain the queue at a shop in our area. These are the officers who were on duty at the markets in the morning. Even then we called in sergeants from other guards to help us manage the social distancing norm,” said an officer in the Bhowanipore area. (Inputs from Suman Chakraborti and Zeeshan Jawed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/booze-rush-stores-run-dry-as-city-polishes-off-old-stock/articleshow/75563475.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four trains ferry 3,500 people to Bihar||JAIPUR: Four special trains— two from Kota and one each from Jaipur and Udaipur — have ferried 3,500 people to Bihar’s Katiyar and Muzaffarpur district. Among them were 1,600 coaching students and the rest migrant labourers. Meanwhile, two trains — one each from Palghar and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra — brought state migrants to Jaipur on Tuesday. The trains from Jaipur and Udaipur headed for Katiyar and Muzaffarpur were carrying migrant workers registered with the state government. More outbound trains are expected for migrants from Bikaner, Jodhpur, Jaipur, Alwar, Ganganangar and for pilgrims stuck in Ajmer. Sources informed over 16 lakh migrant labourers, including 5 lakh outbound migrants, have registered seeking transport assistance to reach their destinations. In all, seven trains have so far ferried 7,000 students to Bihar in the last three days. “It is half job done. There are still 6000 students from Bihar. I hope that trains will continue to run,” said Nitesh Sharma of a coaching major.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-trains-ferry-3500-people-to-bihar/articleshow/75565068.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Topsy-turvy: Chicken on mutton shop menu||KOLKATA: Md Umar despised everyone who called chicken a form of meat. When a food stall came up close to his shop last Durga Puja, he was peeved at the attempt to sell chicken biryani. “Call that murg pulao,” he had told the stall owner. “Without gosht, you can’t have biryani,” he could be heard grumbling. Little did the Swinhoe Street butcher know that six months later, he would have to swallow his pride and sell ‘infernal’ poultry for a living after being forced to keep the shop shut for nearly three weeks due to supply shortage. Meat shops in Kolkata sourced livestock from haats at Kanpur and Etawah in Uttar Pradesh and Patna and Saharsa in Bihar. But all those haats have remained shut during the lockdown. Around 20 trucks, each packed with 300-400 goats would arrive in Narkeldanga daily before lockdown. No truck has arrived for nearly a month-and-a-half now. With stock trickling into haats in Narkeldanga and Budge Budge from livestock farms in Murshidabad and Malda, some shops, including Md Umar’s, have reopened. But with mutton price scaling Rs 750-800 per kg owing to supply shortage and few customers in the offing, Umar has taken to selling chicken. “I had never thought the situation would come to such a pass that I would sell poultry. But I have done so to keep myself afloat and pay my staff Md Nasir,” said Umar of Hafiz Meat Shop, who now sells around 5kg of mutton and 15-20kg of chicken a day. Before lockdown, he would sell 15-20kg of mutton daily and three times the amount on weekends. “Mutton price has become so unaffordable that we are offering them dressed chicken and asking them to wait till the lockdown is over. Unless we get supply from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the mutton price is unlikely to dip,” said Sk Hamid of Akbar Ali & Sons, a mutton shop at Remount Road. Moinuddin of Ekbal Meat Shop complained the local livestock did not match the quality of goat reared in Bihar and UP. “We don’t have the meat that some connoisseurs demand. For the rest, mutton is now beyond reach. So we are selling chicken,” he said. Unlike mutton, price of dressed chicken which has been fluctuating in the run-up to the lockdown has stabilised with the easing of movement of trucks ferrying poultry from farms in Hooghly, North 24 Parganas and elsewhere and is now witnessing a steady demand, particularly after the closure of wholesale fish markets in Howrah and Patipukur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/topsy-turvy-chicken-on-mutton-shop-menu/articleshow/75563491.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 6, 2020||Goa||Modi thanks Costa for extending Indians’ visas in Portugal||Panaji: At a time when several Portuguese passport OCI card holders have sought assistance to return to India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Goan origin Portuguese counterpart Antonio Costa, over a phone call, discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and steps being taken by both countries to control health and economic impact. Modi commended Costa for his effective handling of the crisis and thanked him for extending validity of visas of Indian travellers to Portugal who could not return because of the lockdown. Costa also expressed appreciation for the facilitation provided by Indian authorities to Portuguese citizens in India.  The two leaders noted that proactive national measures were helpful in containing the spread of the virus and offered all possible help to each other in dealing with the situation. They agreed to collaborate on research and innovation aimed at fighting coronavirus. An average, around nine Goans, each day (prior to the lockdown) have been surrendering their Indian citizenship after acquiring Portuguese nationality. Many with no knowledge of Portuguese and have never visited Portugal have been using their Portuguese nationality to live, work and enjoy benefits in the UK, which is part of the European Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/modi-thanks-costa-for-extending-indians-visas-in-portugal/articleshow/75565069.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Four trains ferry 3,500 people to Bihar||JAIPUR: Four special trains— two from Kota and one each from Jaipur and Udaipur — have ferried 3,500 people to Bihar’s Katiyar and Muzaffarpur district. Among them were 1,600 coaching students and the rest migrant labourers. Meanwhile, two trains — one each from Palghar and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra — brought state migrants to Jaipur on Tuesday. The trains from Jaipur and Udaipur headed for Katiyar and Muzaffarpur were carrying migrant workers registered with the state government. More outbound trains are expected for migrants from Bikaner, Jodhpur, Jaipur, Alwar, Ganganangar and for pilgrims stuck in Ajmer. Sources informed over 16 lakh migrant labourers, including 5 lakh outbound migrants, have registered seeking transport assistance to reach their destinations. In all, seven trains have so far ferried 7,000 students to Bihar in the last three days. “It is half job done. There are still 6000 students from Bihar. I hope that trains will continue to run,” said Nitesh Sharma of a coaching major.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/4-trains-ferry-3500-people-to-bihar/articleshow/75572626.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu count touches 4,058; 279 new cases in Chennai; toll hits 33||CHENNAI: Total Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu on Tuesday touched 4,058, with 508 patients testing positive for the infection. After recording 266 on Monday, positive cases in Chennai jumped to 279 on Tuesday, taking the total count to 2008, and bringing down the doubling time in the city to three days from nine days as on April 27. Several districts were re-designated from amber to red zone as 20 of them reported fresh cases. Krishnagiri, the sole district on green zone, was moved to amber after it recorded two cases on Tuesday, said a press bulletin issued by the directorate of public health and preventive medicine. A 60-year-old woman from Chennai admitted to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 2 died at 9.30am on Monday. Nine hours later, a 56-year-old Chennai man with comorbidities admitted on April 26 died at the same hospital. The deaths took the overall toll in the state to 33. For the second consecutive day, according to the press bulletin, “a large number of cases were linked to Koyembedu market”. So far, at least 300 vendors, truckers, load men and staff working in the market complex had tested positive for the infection. On Tuesday, all 68 positive cases reported in Cuddalore district were market returnees. The district, which had 39 positive cases till Sunday, now has 229 cases, the second- highest in the state after Chennai. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan has requested all those associated with the market to come forward to undergo tests. All cases reported in Villupuram (25), Kallakurchi (38) and Tiruvallur (18) had links with the market, officials said. The Nilgiris, which had sent all nine patients home, reported four cases linked to the Koyambedu cluster on Tuesday. Over the weekend, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority had handed over a list of 6,900 names to district collectors. “All of them are being tracked and tested. We did expect this rise,” said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. Besides Koyambedu, clusters in containment areas of Chennai and Chengalpattu were also on the rise, officials said. After 76 people were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday,2,537 active cases were undergoing treatment across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-count-touches-4058-279-new-cases-in-city-toll-hits-33/articleshow/75565067.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||From ice-cream to spicy curry, they are preparing everything||Nagpur: By discovering the hidden chefs in them, citizens are making a variety of ‘lip-smacking’ dishes. YouTube and online recipe manuals are helping them to put spicy saoji chicken, creamy pastas, delicious desserts and a lot more on the table for all the family members to relish. Even youngsters working from home are exploring cooking. Many are planning their grocery shopping so that they can bake cakes, make pizzas and also cook non-vegetarian delicacies. Arumita Pawa, a lecturer, never found time to experiment with her food choices, but now, right from making tangy pani puri to hot and crispy samosas, she is making everything with utmost ease. “This lockdown was getting on my nerves. I had to go back to my passion for cooking. I tried making ice creams, pizzas, pani puri, hot chips, snacks and much more,” she said. Many foodies have also made changes in their grocery list. They are adding English veggies such as red and yellow bell-peppers, broccoli and herbs such as oregano, chili flakes, rosemary and various types of butter and spreads such as peanut butter, hummus and almond butter. Homemakers, too, are going all out in breaking the monotony of the simple breakfast such as poha or upma. They are spending quality time with their mothers-in-law to learn traditional cuisines. “We don’t have an oven at our home. But I set up a kadhai oven and made pizza and breads for my children as they were missing Italian food. I also made sweet and savoury water for pani puri, sev puri and even tried making dahi bhalla,” said Poonam Khatri, a homemaker. Youngsters are making the most of this time to learn a variety of dishes by watching them on YouTube. Pasta, Thai curry or spicy chicken, they are learning to make everything on their own. “I’m a law student and most my time would go in studying in the library, but this lockdown has given me the opportunity to try making various dishes. I have learnt to make different types of maggie. I’m prioritizing my health by eating healthy stuff,” said Mayur Hargunani. While some are making spices for the curry and spicy saoji, the others are trying different types of chutneys by picking veggies from their garden. Dimple Anandani, who is fond of baking, is opting for a healthy approach. She has started baking cakes by using wheat flour instead of maida. “I’m making a variety of cakes, doughnuts and muffins. I make my own whipping cream, chocolate ganache and change flavours of the cake. It is great that I get so much time to bake my favourite cakes and make various savoury dishes” she said. Srujal Randive, who often craves spicy food, made aloo bhujiya, Mumbai style grilled sandwich, misal pav and dum biryani. From cakes to sorbets, he made them all. “I have tried my hand at almost everything. I was missing street food and hence, I learnt to make it at home. I also made custard and orange cake. It was very delicious. I never knew I would be this great at cooking, thanks to lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-ice-cream-to-spicy-curry-they-are-preparing-everything/articleshow/75564396.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Koyambedu cluster: Nilgiris records four new Covid-19 cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris registered four new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, 25 days since reporting its last case. The new cases come at a time when the district was on the verge of moving from the orange zone to green after nine positive cases were discharged following treatment. Of the four new cases, two hail from Kilkozhikarai near Nanjanadu in Ooty taluk, while the third is from Kakkanji colony, Nanjanadu, and the fourth of Nehru Nagar, Selas in Coonoor taluk. All the four positive cases are truck drivers who had visited Koyambedu market in Chennai, and are being treated at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Soon after Koyambedu market emerged as a hotspot for the virus, health officials in the district started isolating truck drivers returning home. Officials identified about 40 truck drivers with a travel history to Koyambedu in the last week. Samples from all the 40 were drawn for tests for Covid-19. “The four cases are out of the 40 truck drivers who were tested for the virus. The remaining 36 tested negative,” said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health. For the past three days, 24 truck drivers who returned from Koyambedu have been quarantined at the Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital. Their results are expected in a day or two. Collector J Innocent Divya said, “All locations from where the four positive cases hail have been sealed... people in these areas are advised not to venture out unnecessarily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/koyambedu-cluster-nilgiris-records-four-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75564387.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Man booked for spreading hate on social media||DAVANAGERE: KTJ Nagar police in Davanagere city booked Shivakumar Kurudi Mutt under the Disaster Management Act 2005, for social media posts on Covid-19, that could cause panic and spread hate. On May 1, Kurudi Mutt had posted posted on Facebook that 1 lakh jihadis are living in Azadnagar, Bhashanagar, Jalinagar, Bhagatsinghnagar and Vinobhanagar areas of Davanagere city, and that Davanagere would become a burial ground soon. He urged Hindus to be cautious about the Covid-19 outbreak. The accused was produced before the taluk magistrate on Tuesday, and warned not to put up such posts again. After getting a declaration from the accused, he was release on a Rs 5 lakh bond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-booked-for-spreading-hate-on-social-media/articleshow/75561955.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s heart beats, small shops open||KOLKATA: The central business district, which had been lying deserted since the start of the lockdown, witnessed some activity on Tuesday. Many shops selling mobiles, consumer durables and electrical goods upped their shutters on Tuesday morning after the state government allowed opening of such shops outside containment zones. Areas like Chandni, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Bentinck Street, Waterloo Street, Meredith Street and portions of Central Avenue are not in the containment zone. The shop-owners said they utilised the entire day cleaning up their shops, tallying their stock and checking the electricity. They were expecting customers to trickle in as the week progresses. “Today, we are cleaning up our showroom. The showroom has been shut for weeks, so extensive cleaning is required,” said a representative of Lalani Infotech on Mission Row, which sells mobile phones, mobile accessories and consumer durables. The employees working inside were wearing masks and gloves. Owners of Ratan Electric and Refrigeration Company on 26 Ganesh Chandra Avenue said they would be opening their shop everyday henceforth. “We were waiting for the government order. Once people know that shops have reopened, the business is bound to pick up. But many of our mechanics are unable to come to work because of unavailability of transport,” said the owner. Even tea shops, paan shops and those selling soft drinks reopened on Tuesday. The government has allowed these shops to resume business only if they don’t allow people to assemble and consume at the spot. “The cops came in the morning and said they will force us to shut if they find people lurking around,” said Vinod Shaw, who sells soft drink, candies and beetle leaf on Prafulla Sarkar Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-heart-beats-small-shops-open/articleshow/75563502.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Make arrangements for Rajasthanis evacuees from abroad: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed the officials to make arrangements for the Rajasthanis evacuated from abroad. He said proper arrangements must be put in place for their medical treatment and mandatory institutional quarantine. He directed the officials to get district wise data from the external affairs ministry of the NRIs from Rajasthan being evacuated. The chief minister said it would be better for the nation only the Covid-19 negative people are brought to the country because the disease has spread in the country by the foreign returnees. The chief minister said the percentage of Covid infection has remained stable from April 21 and May 5. He said the doubling rate of the virus has been increased to 16 days is a good sign which is 12 days’ national level. But he said there is every reason to keep the guard on. The chief minister said the number of migrant labourers registered with the government to return to the state had gone up to 17 lakhs. He said those who come back had to undergo 14 days’ quarantine which is in the interest of all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/make-arrangements-for-raj-evacuees-from-abroad-cm/articleshow/75565070.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Over 5k people brought back to U’khand: CS||Dehradun: The state government claimed on Tuesday that it had launched a massive drive to rescue people stranded at different locations within and outside Uttarakhand. Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said in a media briefing that 5,569 people have been brought back from other states, whereas over 7,000 have moved from one district to another . “We have helped close to 13,000 people to reach their homes. Of which 5,569 have been brought from other states, whereas 7,000 plus were given permission to move from one district to another in Uttarakhand. We are keeping a close eye and a thorough medical test of people coming to Uttarakhand is being done. We have made sufficient arrangements for institutional quarantine as well,” Singh said. Till date, 1.61 lakh people have registered themselves on the website started by the state government for people stranded at various places who wished to return to Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, Singh said that around 35,000 people of other states are also presently stuck in Uttarakhand. “It is a tough time for them but we are trying our best to help each one of them,” the CS said. To help farmers, he said that the state government has decided to pay compensation to those whose crops have been damaged by hailstorm and rains. “The compensation would be provided to them through the state disaster relief funds. In April and May, around 13,240 hectares of crops have been damaged. Out of which, over 33 per cent crop of 1,600 hectares have been damaged. We are also compiling the data of horticulture sector too,” added the chief secretary. He further said that in order to give a boost to the agri sector, the state government has already constituted a three-member committee headed by Subodh Uniyal and comprising ministers Rekha Arya and Dhan Singh Rawat, who are studying the situation. “When Covid-19 scare started, Uttarakhand did not have any lab testing facility. Now we have 4 testing centres and the capacity to carry out 500 sample tests each day,” he added. He added that the state has given permission to 4,483 industrial units to operate. “As many as 85,000 people are employed in these units, which are in the plains as well as the hill districts of the state,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-5k-people-brought-back-to-ukhand-cs/articleshow/75563513.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: JEE dates out, students relieved||AHMEDABAD: The uncertainty for engineering and medical aspirants ended on Tuesday with the government announcing the dates for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). All competitive exams and a few CBSE Class X and XII board exams were postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. More than 82,000 students from Gujarat have registered to take the NEET. The examination was earlier scheduled to be held May 3. In an interaction with students in a webinar, Union minister for human resource development, Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday said the JEE (Mains) will be conducted from July 18-23 and JEE (Advanced) will be held in August. The minister also announced that NEET will be conducted on July 26. According to sources, the pending CBSE exams will be conducted in the first two weeks of July. “The certainty about the date for NEET is a big relief. I think it’s a good decision considering that the threat of Covid-19 would have subsided by then.,” said Niyati Patel, a Class XII student from Ahmedabad. “Some students remain sceptical regarding the safety and social distancing issues while some are in the wait-and-watch mode.” According to sources, the CBSE has also presented the schedule for its pending board exams which will be conducted in the first two weeks of July. The lockdown gave an opportunity for candidates to prepare more extensively. Many students had also started taking online coaching classes during the lockdown period. “Students who did not prepare well have now got enough time to work on areas in which they are weak,” said Harshit Kumar, a Class XII student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jee-dates-out-students-relieved/articleshow/75564416.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Exam syllabus to be cut 20% for Tamil Nadu engineering students||CHENNAI: Final-year BE, B Tech students may have to study one unit less for semester exams as Anna University plans to leave out the portions that were not covered before colleges were shut in TN because of the pandemic. In engineering courses, every subject has five units. According to sources, engineering colleges including university departments were able to complete only 80% of the syllabus before they were closed on March 17. Due to the subsequent Covid-19 lockdown, colleges lost 13 working days in the final semester. In a meeting to plan semester exams post-lockdown, officials on Monday discussed several issues including evaluating thesis of final-year students, conducting exams and loss of working days. “For the existing eighth-semester students, we will have questions from first four units and we will leave out one unit,” M K Surappa, vice-chancellor, Anna University, said. Some colleges have tried to complete their lessons through online classes. Since most of the students were from rural areas, university officials were not sure how many of them had access to internet and were able to attend the online classes. Officials have also decided to conduct the exams in a phased manner. “The exam schedule is being planned in a way that students belonging to only one semester would be on campus at any given time. The exams would start with final and eighth semester. Then seventh semester and arrears exam for final semester students would be held. It would help us to conduct exams with social distancing norms and also reduce crowd before and after the exams,” officials said. Earlier, the university used to complete all the exams within a month. Now it may take up to 50 days. “For final-year students, the exam may be conducted within 10 to 12 days. It would take two or three weeks to declare the results. If needed, the university would also consider setting up more evaluation centres to keep social distancing,” officials said. Though UGC suggested conducting of exams from July 1 to 31, the state higher education department is likely to give its nod for conducting exam only after evaluating the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/exam-syllabus-to-be-cut-20-for-tn-engg-students/articleshow/75568167.cms||A Ragu Raman
May 6, 2020||Chennai||AI-approved exams to be next big thing in remote learning||By K K RamachandranChennai: The unfolding of the Covid-19 pandemic has shown academicia that there is no turning from technology and artificial intelligence. This phase of online learning, video-meetings and webinars on special topics can never be reversed and so moving ahead and cohabiting with technology is the only way forward. Since the lockdown has thrown the academic calendar off the rails, the immediate concern of college and course managers is to hold examinations and help final semester students to be job-ready or pursue higher education. The fact that Tamil Nadu has about 1.3 crore schoolchildren in about 50,000 schools of all categories will underline the mammoth task waiting to be resolved in the next few weeks. In higher education, Tamil Nadu is home to nearly 35 lakh students in 780 arts and science colleges, more than 550 engineering colleges, 37 universities and nearly 450 polytechnic institutes. Given the numbers, there is no way the old system of teaching can make up for the lost time. But a bunch of alert academicians see this disruption in the academic calendar as an opportunity to reassess teaching methods. That explains why many colleges and universities have decided to hold an online-only teaching-learning programme at least once a week. In the post-Covid world, traditional examinations could be seen as a red signal. Physical invigilation and manual evaluation, the logistics involving an examination centre and hard copies of answer scripts pose more challenges. More number of students means more the number of teachers, halls, papers and logistics. In contrast, online exams can be conducted remotely with either an AI-based algorithm or an AI-assisted human proctor. This means a professor will be assisted by an AI algorithm to invigilate the credibility of his class. AI-driven tools take over the invigilation role even as the candidate keys in the answers in an anywhere-any-time examination pattern. The keyboard movement, eyeball movement and audio sensors will be able to remotely monitor the candidate. Any unusual behaviour or deviation from the screen in front is notified on a real-time basis. Attempt to commit fraud results in instant freeze of keys. Auto-grading tools are available to assess performance effectively and with accuracy. To check that the computer being used to take the exam is not misused to browse for answers, ports can also be disabled of external devices, a monitoring software can ensure navigation control and internet browsing is blocked, and no other unauthorised software is working at the back. If the AI proctor finds any suspicious activity, it will raise a flag that will reflect on the professor’s screen in real-time. To ensure there are no leaks of questions, the paper too could be computer-generated, making the entire process is AI-approved assessment, invigilation and evaluation. As assessment levels of learning outputs change, it is important that the inputs too are different, and it is not just a mere shift of the physical classroom online. While some argue that the teacher-student interaction will be affected, the challenge is in content creation and making the topics tech-friendly. The onus of innovation is on the teachers, who need to do more than create a power point presentation of a lesson for a virtual classroom. For instance, when teaching live, interactive tools that provide a question poll or a link that further elucidates a concept has to be incorporated. Higher educational institutes and universities must develop their own platforms so external dependence is minimal, and the initiative is economical. To start with, the syllabus should be made available in electronic format and should be enabled to use tech tools available. Tamil Nadu government has allocated nearly Rs40,000 crore for education this year with huge sums being set aside for technology, smart learning and e-labs. The pandemic has merely reminded administrators about the huge outlay at their disposal to be used for tech upgradation and making the students e-ready for future challenges. It hardly stops with distribution of laptops free of cost. Instead of being overawed by the lockdown and losing academic days, the bureaucracy and academicia should focus on creating e-content on apps and then ready colleges and schools for online assessments. If they are slack in achieving this, the whole space will be taken over by private entities, startups and corporates. Once such a digital divide is allowed, it can never be bridged. (The writer is an educator and a Fulbright scholar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ai-approved-exams-to-be-next-big-thing-in-remote-learning/articleshow/75564385.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rape survivor seeks nod to abort||AHMEDABAD: The wait is getting longer for the 14-year-old rape survivor from Isanpur who has sought the Gujarat high court’s directions to medical authorities to terminate her 23-week pregnancy. The medical opinion has assumed bigger importance in this case because the teen has contracted Covid-19 and is already under treatment. The girl was allegedly raped by a relative. An FIR was lodged with the Isanpur police on April 23 and police has launched an investigation into her complaint. On the other hand, she and her family members want to get the fetus terminated. The HC was moved last week seeking directions to medical authorities to abort the foetus. The court was approached before the teen’s pregnancy was beyond 20 weeks and the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act prohibits abortion after 20-week pregnancy. Only the high court can direct the authorities for abortion in special cases. The teen was allotted a lawyer by the Gujarat High Court Legal Service Committee. The fact that she has been infected by coronavirus has complicated the issue further. The HC on Monday ordered the medical authority to examine the teen and convey its opinion on whether abortion is advisable. When the HC took up the hearing on Tuesday, a team of doctors were examining the teen. The HC has now posted a hearing on Wednesday and sought the medical opinion by the time it hears the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-survivor-seeks-nod-to-abort/articleshow/75564412.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mysuru||Tahsildar assures help to factory workers||Mysuru: Around 300 people from North India, who were working in a sugar factory in Nanjangud, appealed to the tahsildar to arrange transport for them to return back to their states. The factory workers, carried luggage on their shoulders and walked to the tahsildar’s office to highlight their plight. Tahsildar Mahesh Kumar assured to help them. Most of the workers are from Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Bihar. They alleged that they were not paid their salaries from the past two months, and that they don’t have any food. Responding to their appeal, tahsildar Mahesh Kumar directed them to fill their details in the Seva Sindhu app. Mahesh called the factory general manager and directed him to arrange a vehicle to take the workers back to the factory, and help them into fill details in the app, and also arrange food for them. He assured them that they will get travel passes in three days, and that they will be sent in trains from Bengaluru to their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tahsildar-assures-help-to-factory-workers/articleshow/75561986.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||After lockdown, doctors see 80% dip in emergency cases||PUNE: There has been a surprising drop in the number of emergency cases at non-Covid-19 private hospitals across Pune. Officials at the hospitals' emergency departments reported an 80% dip in the number of heart attacks, strokes and trauma. The drop, they said, was noticed after the lockdown. Non-Covid-19 hospitals are facilities treating only a fixed number of coronavirus cases. Their focus is other ailments or emergencies. Doctors added it was unclear if the fall in emergency cases was the result of under-reporting or absence of work-related stress during the lockdown. Others said people with mild symptoms were postponing hospital visits because they feared contracting infection. “Patients with brain tumours are worried about hospital visits because they fear infection. Last week, six patients came in only after developing symptoms they could no longer tolerate,” said neurosurgeon Charu Apte, chairman of the Sahyadri group of hospitals. Cardiologist J S Dugal said heart attacks seem to have “disappeared”. “The cause is unclear. It could be multifactoral,” he said. Others said they were “pleasantly surprised” to see a drop in heart-related emergencies. “The number of heart attack cases have fallen and so have angioplasties. Lifestyles have suddenly become healthier after the lockdown. I’m pleasantly surprised to see the drop,” said Abhijit Vaidya, a cardiologist. Cardiologist Suhas Hardas said: "Before Covid-19, I would see at least 15 cardiac emergencies every month. That number has dropped after the lockdown. Most private hospitals have recorded an 80% drop in heart attacks, strokes and trauma." Hardas, however, said the fall could be the result of under-reporting. "Several cases of heart attacks or unstable angina have not been reported. We lost two critical patients who were unable to reach us in time during the lockdown. There is a high possibility of under-reporting by patients themselves because they fear contracting infection in hospitals." The other possibility is an actual decline in emergency cases. “People are with their families; they are relaxed and not burdened with work,” Hardas said. He added: “During the lockdown, people have found time to paint, read, exercising, compose music and watch interesting TV shows. “I realise that people are also eating healthy. And due to a relatively non-stress lifestyle, the overall adrenaline surge — that trigger cardiovascular events — has reduced. Life has suddenly become less competitive, less stressful. We seem to have returned to the days of simplistic living.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-lockdown-doctors-see-80-dip-in-emergency-cases/articleshow/75565077.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 6, 2020||Goa||Seafarers association seeks PM’s help in bringing back those stranded abroad||Panaji: The Goan Seamen Association of India, has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday for the return of seafarers stranded at various ports of the world. The companies are ready to arrange charter flights and make a green corridor for seafarers and ensure Covid-19 tests are done, quarantine places nominated and SOPs complied “…but unfortunately the government has not given any permission. When we compare other countries like Philippines or Indonesia, the Indian seafarers are presently undergoing negative feeling because of the delayed process done by the government of India,” president of the association Frank Viegas stated in a letter to the Prime Minister. The association members also met Union minister for Ayush and minister of state for defence Srhipad Naik and submitted a memorandum seeking the repatriation of seafarers stranded urgently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-association-seeks-pms-help-in-bringing-back-those-stranded-abroad/articleshow/75565082.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Enhance superannuation age of non-teaching doctors’||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Medical Joint Action Committee (TMJAC) employees’ service association on Tuesday demanded the government to bring on par the superannuation age for non-teaching doctors of Health Medical Family Welfare & Ayush Department with teaching doctors. TMJAC said non-teaching doctors were rendering their services without pause amid the Covid-19 pandemic and deserve to avail sops on par with teaching doctors. TMJAC state general secretary Dr A A Khan told TOI that the superannuation age for teaching doctors was increased from 58 to 65 years in 2019. “We are very thankful to chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao who took the decision to enhance the superannuation of the teaching doctors. We request the state government to increase the age limit of the non-teaching doctors on par with teaching doctors of health medical family welfare & Ayush department as well,’’ Dr Khan said. The TMJAC called on the chief minister to consider their plea as a special case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/enhance-superannuation-age-of-non-teaching-docs/articleshow/75564526.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid-19 disrupts weather forecasts too||CHENNAI: Last week, when a low pressure began brewing over the Andaman Sea, the European ECMWF weather model, known as the world’s best, forecast it would eventually intensify into a cyclone and hit the Andhra Pradesh coast, while other global models said it would fizzle out. This difference in forecasts, meteorologists say, is due to the raging coronavirus pandemic. The drastic drop in observational data, particularly from aircraft, now grounded, and reduced inputs from weather balloons that provide critical upper air data are the reasons, they say, adding that it could eventually affect southwest monsoon forecast. M Rajeevan, secretary of the ministry of earth sciences which includes India Meteorological Department (IMD), says there has been a more than 60% decline in meteorological data relayed by aircraft due to suspension of flights. IMD has cut down on upper air observations from weather balloons (radiosonde) since April 1 to save them for the monsoon season. These are imported from countries like South Korea, which may not be possible now. “The decline in aircraft data will definitely impact short range and medium range forecast because these observations have come down…,” said Rajeevan. Aircraft instruments measure various upper atmospheric parameters including wind speed and direction, temperature and cloud data like droplets. Sensors in weather balloons also give out wind speed and direction, temperature, relative humidity and pressure, etc., for daily forecasts. The nearly eight lakh pieces of data sent daily to the World Meterological Organisation’s Aircraft Meterological Data Relay Programme from thousands of planes from 43 airlines has dropped by more than 80% since March-end. IMD’s upper air observational network comprises 39 radiosonde and 62 pilot balloon observatories; operations of some key weather instruments in 54 stations have been scaled down. The weather model is re-initialised with new datasets including aircraft-based measurements and weather balloons, flown at least once a day, every six hours. Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, says data from both radiosonde and aircraft is important and its absence could lead to inaccurate forecasts during the monsoon. “When a thunderstorm cell crosses a height, the upper level dynamics governs its evolution. Upper level winds are important to understand upper air circulation (UAC). UAC is more important during monsoon because it drags the moisture and forms clouds. So we may miss some of the systems that may form and a slightly inaccurate forecast is possible.” Meteorologists say radiosonde, still flown in some observatories along with data from satellites, could make up for the loss of data from aircraft. “Aircraft observations are used only for validating the model. They are not crucial to aircraft operations. If they observe turbulence or wind shear which was not forecast, that information is sent to nearest ATC which then will pass it on to the IMD,” said R Suresh, former IMD deputy director general. Prof Balasubramanian said while radiosonde gives local measurements and aircrafts measurements are spatial, satellites cannot compensate for the absence of data detect or measure winds. “UAC is all about wind and cloud is only an output of the winds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-disrupts-weather-forecasts-too/articleshow/75564413.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||190 Tasmac to outlets to reopen in district tomorrow||COIMBATORE: Following the state government’s nod to reopen Tasmac outlets, the district administration swung into action and started the preparatory work on Tuesday. As many as 190 outlets are expected to be reopened in the district from Thursday. The outlets remained closed since March 24 after the imposition of lockdown by the state government to control the spread of Covid-19 infection. After 44 dry days, the state government has decided to run the outlets from May 7 between 10am and 5pm. No outlets would be opened in the containment areas and no bars were permitted to function in the district, said a Tasmac official. Only five customers would be allowed to enter the barricaded area and the remaining must stand in a queue , the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/190-tasmac-to-outlets-to-reopen-in-dist-tomorrow/articleshow/75564467.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||No field survey work for teachers over 55 years in Pune||PUNE: The civic administration has decided to exempt the teachers aged above 55 years from door-to-door survey duties in the Covid-19 affected areas. An order was issued recently in this regard. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared a list of over 200 teachers aged above 55 years who will now be allotted administrative work instead of being sent to the field. The civic authorities said the administration will replace these teachers with other staffers and those below 55 years of age. Officials said the step was being taken as a precautionary measure. Among those who have been relieved from the field visit duties include the assistant teachers and teachers attached to the primary schools. The PMC has deputed civic school teachers to conduct a door-to-door survey across 15 civic wards in a bid to identify suspected patients for Covid-19 infection. The teams visit every house falling within the wards and survey the citizens for flu-like symptoms as per the containment plan. The symptomatic patients are referred to the nearest health clinics for further check-up. “Relieving around 200 teachers from survey duties will not hamper our work in any way. We have started deputing replacements. We will utilize the teachers over 55 years of age for other administrative work,” a senior civic health department official said. The PMC has completed the first round of survey in the entire city. The administration is now gearing up for the second round of repeated surveys in areas where the Covid-19 positive cases have appeared in large numbers over the past few days. As many as 1,007 teams have been on deputed on the field in this regard. Over 20.54 lakh houses have been visited so far, covering a population of nearly 71 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-field-survey-work-for-teachers-over-55-years/articleshow/75565089.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 6, 2020||Pune||PMPML adopts cost-cutting measures||Pune: Around 350 drivers, conductors and technical staff of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will now be deployed as security guards at the transport body’s different establishments, including the BRTS corridors. The move comes after the PMPML on Tuesday decided to terminate the services of 350 contractual employees due to heavy financial losses in the wake of the lockdown. “There is practically no income at present. Hence, this decision has been taken,” Ajay Charthankar, the PMPML joint managing director, told TOI. Besides, seven PMPML depots will also be shut down for the time being. “Since minimum activities are on at present, we have decided to shut down the depots to save costs. Once things are back to normal, we will rethink on the decisions and act accordingly,” he said. The authorities also said the regulation to collect a fine of Rs 500 for anyone found spitting on the premises of the PMPML will be strictly implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-adopts-cost-cutting-measures/articleshow/75565084.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 6, 2020||Pune||Another 11-day wait for petrol, diesel at fuel stations||Pune: People living in areas under the municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will have to wait till May 17 to get their vehicles refuelled at petrol pumps. Besides those with digital passes from police, vehicles allowed to provide essential services would have access to fuel. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday clarified that the restrictions on sale of petrol and diesel to the citizens in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits would continue till the extended lockdown period. The extended lockdown period gets over on May 17. Ram, however, said the fuel supply restrictions have been lifted for the people living in the rural areas of the district following the government’s nod to resumption of agricultural and industrial activities there. Since the last couple of days, people were visiting petrol pumps across the city to refuel their vehicles. On Tuesday, the Pune Petrol Dealers Association, after a meeting with district authorities, had also started dispensing fuel to common citizens. But after a meeting between the district collector, divisional commissioner and the police authorities on Tuesday evening, it was decided to continue with the curbs on fuel supply to common citizens in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad city areas to restrict the spread of Covid-19. The district collector told TOI that because of the approval to the industrial activities have in the rural areas of Pune district, there was no demarcation between availability of fuel to essential or non-essential services. Ram said after the discussions with local authorities on Tuesday, it was felt necessary to restrict fuel supply to all citizens in the PMC and PCMC limits, barring those involved in essential services with valid passes. “We do not want a situation where fuel is supplied to all in city areas. This can cause people coming out on the streets unhindered, hampering social distancing measures. The Covid-19 spread in the PMC and PCMC areas continues to remain grim,” he said. In the PMC and PCMC areas, only vehicles allowed to provide essential services would have access to fuel, as well as those that have digital passes issued by the police. “Fuel will also be supplied to other vehicles that have passes issued by the municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and the district collectorate, as well as those essential services providers, like doctors, who have been allowed to work during the lockdown period. Apart from these, fuel supply in rural areas will also resume unrestricted,” Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/another-11-day-wait-for-petrol-diesel-at-fuel-stations/articleshow/75565081.cms||Neha Madaan
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||BSF DG visits border outposts||Jaisalmer: BSF DG S S Deswal reached Murar border outpost in Shargarh Bulj area along the Indo-Pak border in Jaisalmer on Sunday evening. His visit comes a couple of days after coronavirus infected over 54 BSF jawans and officers in New Delhi following which the BSF headquarters was sealed. During his visit, he went on a 50-km walk with officers and jawans for 13 hours till Monday morning covering many border outposts, meeting jawans and officers on the way. The walk ended at BSF BOP Tankhill in Myazlar area. Around 70-80 officers including Rajasthan Frontier IG Amit Lodha, two IGs of ITBP from New Delhi, all DIGs deployed on Rajasthan frontier in Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Sriganganagar sectors, Jaisalmer sector north and south commandants and other officers and jawans accompanied the DG. The group followed the social distancing norms during the visit. According to information, Deswal reached Murar BOP by helicopter on Sunday. Rajasthan Frontier officials along with officers of Jaisalmer sector south welcomed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-dg-visits-border-outposts/articleshow/75564473.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Death in times of lockdown: Ashes pile up at Rajasthan crematoriums||JAISALMER: Due to corona pandemic, bereaved families are finding it difficult to immerse the ashes of their loved ones in the Ganges. The urns containing ashes are lying in crematorium and also in the houses of many people. At the Barmer crematorium, the capacity of locker to keep ashes is full. Only 72 urns can be kept at the locker, which was full before lockdown. After lockdown till April 30, around 90 people have been cremated and 44 families have taken their urns and now we have 46 excess urns. In such a situation, the excess 46 urns are to be kept in separate boxes. According to the Hindu ritual, the family members take the ashes to Haridwar on the third day but due to lockdown people are not able to go and urns are being kept at the crematorium. The ashes will be immersed in holy river after lockdown ends. Similarly, in Jaisalmer city, more than a dozen urns are kept at home. In case of death government permission has to be taken from the administration to take body to the crematorium and only 20 people can attend the condolence meeting maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/death-in-times-of-lockdown-ashes-pile-up-at-crematoriums/articleshow/75564471.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Phased lockdown exit will delay peak in Tamil Nadu by 4 months, cut cases||CHENNAI: A staggered exit from the lockdown — with strict enforcement of social distancing — will help Tamil Nadu delay the peak by at least four months and pull down the number of cases by nearly half, says a study by researchers at the government-run Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. The study said Tamil Nadu would have had at least 15,500 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday compared to the 4,058 cases it registered if the state had not introduced three-phases of the lockdown, along with social distancing, mandatory use of masks and hand hygiene. In a scenario without interventions, the reproductive number (R0) — or the number of people one person will infect — would have been 3.69. That is, every positive person would have infected more than 3 other people. The R0 now is 1.09. The study has some interesting projections. Without a lockdown, the epidemic would peak in mid-July when there would be 3.5 crore cases at the same time, putting public health facilities under great stress. A lockdown till the end of June, will delay the peak by four months to October when there would be 1.5 crore cases, which is less than half the non-lockdown peak. And though there would be more cases from mid-September with a lockdown than if there hadn’t been one, the epidemic would have been less devastating. Overall, there will be far fewer cases with a lockdown and the incidence will also be spread out, with a much lower peak, giving public health authorities the time needed to cope. The lockdown, the study found, brought the R0 to 1.09.“While the ideal medical solution to this problem will be to extend the lockdown till June, so we can keep the number of people infected at 1.3 lakh. We understand it may not be possible as it can cause huge socio-economic crisis,” said university vice-chancellor Dr Sudha Seshayyan, who had sent a note on the analysis to the state health department. In March, the state university was asked to study the effects of the lockdown to help the state formulate strategies based on scientific evidence. It submitted its findings to the state health department on Tuesday. The lockdown, the study found, brought the R0 to 1.09. “Lifting of lockdown completely will push the R0 to 3.69 once again. This means we will see the number of cases increases once again. This study forecasts when that will happen,” she said. For instance, if the state decides to exit the third phase of the lockdown on May 17, when researchers forecast 8,437 cases, TN will have 6.2 lakh cases by end of June. “Without the lockdown there could have been 85,718 cases on May 17. But if the state introduces a staggered exist preventing mass gatherings and ensuring stringent public health norms, it is likely to touch 6.2 lakh by June-end” said Dr N Srinivasan, a senior professor, who was also a part of the study. Even in that case, the university estimates that the state should be able to handle the crisis. So far, 85% of the cases in the state are asymptomatic, while many of the remaining patients rarely report symptoms when they turn up at hospitals. Director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R said while 15% needed intensive monitoring due to age or comorbidities, less than 5% of patients needed interventions such as oxygen. The recovery rate has been nearly 50% and mortality is below 1.1%. “If we keep hospitalisations to the minimum, we should be able to treat most people successfully,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/phased-lockdown-exit-will-delay-peak-in-tn-by-4-mths-cut-cases/articleshow/75565087.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 6, 2020||Goa||Staff stretched, don’t gather in groups unnecessarily: IGP||Panaji: Stating that the Covid-19 pandemic has stretched the capabilities and the capacities of Goa Police, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh on Tuesday advised people that activities such as cultural, religious and political continue to be prohibited and people should not venture out unnecessarily. This, he said was as per the directions of ministry of home affairs (MHA). Singh said his officers have observed people have started gathering and protesting about “small issues to which the police has to respond”. “It increases the workload of the police. The police force is maintaining a round-the-clock presence at border check posts and also patrolling to ensure that lockdown norms are followed. Such activities, on the part of the people, divert efforts of the police away from fighting Covid-19,” he said Singh said Goa Police has not been able to rest officers and men who are continuously performing duties for almost 45 days at a stretch. “People are advised to exercise restraint, follow lockdown norms and adopt established channels to redress their grievances,” he said, adding, “Moreover, such activities increase demands on the already overstretched police force and other emergency services.” A significant proportion of police resources have been diverted to respond to the Covid-19 situation and to support health service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/staff-stretched-dont-gather-in-groups-unnecessarily-igp/articleshow/75565090.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Brother of Covid-19 patient tests +ve in Haveri||Haveri: Haveri reported its second Covid-19 case on Tuesday. The patient designated P-672 hails from Savanur town, and is the primary contact of P-639, who is his brother. He had travelled to Mumbai along with P-639. According to the state health bulletin released by the department of health and family welfare, the patient had reached Savanur on the night of April 28 in a goods vehicle. He stayed with his family in the town, but did not show any symptoms on April 29. The district administration has sent him to a isolation ward in the Haveri government hospital along with P-639 and his 19-year-old son. After being kept under observation, the patient’s throat swab and blood samples were collected and sent to different laboratories, and tested positive for Covid-19. The district authorities have kept 23 people who are primary contacts of P-639 and P-672 in quarantine in hospital, and 25 people have been asked to remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/brother-of-covid-19-patient-tests-ve-in-haveri/articleshow/75562004.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Scientists back caging of snow leopard in Shimla||DEHRADUN: Following the capture of a snow leopard cub (seven-to-eight months old) after it savaged livestock in a remote village in Himachal Pradesh (HP), wildlife scientists in Uttarakhand have supported caging of the endangered cat at a Kufri-based zoo in Shimla. On Saturday, the cub was held in Spiti district by the forest authorities of HP as it had allegedly killed over 45 goats and sheep earlier. Reportedly, a villager had informed about its presence inside a kraal, where it had killed his livestock. Thereafter, it was captured by forest officials. S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, told TOI, “The zoo in Kufri has a history of housing snow leopards. The officials there know how to maintain this species inside the zoo very well. So, it is okay to house the cub there.” However, the move is also being questioned by many activists who fear that snow leopards might be used for exhibition purpose at zoo. “Such a small cub, which is unwell, cannot kill so many goats and sheep in a row. And when authorities claim conservation has led to a rise in their population, then why is the cub so sick? Also, why was the cub made to travel almost 350 kilometres to the zoo for medical treatment? Why are there no rehabilitation centres in the hills that are close to their natural habitats,” asked Rajeshwar Singh Negi, wildlife activist, National Convener of Nature Watch India. Notably, four snow leopards have been kept in Kufri in the past as well but all of them died. Wildlife activists say conservation of elusive and shy snow leopards must be done in their natural habitats in hills. They claim that bringing them to plain areas will put them under tremendous stress because of the heat and human presence. The snow leopards are listed in “vulnerable” category of IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List. Incidentally, Uttarakhand also plans to bring a snow leopard to Nainital Zoo despite already losing one such big cat to hot weather. The snow leopard which died in Nainital Zoo was brought from Darjeeling.  Savita, chief wildlife warden of Himachal Pradesh forest department, said, “The decision to bring the cub to Kufri is purely based on its medical condition which was not good at that time. If we would have released it in the wild, people would have killed it in rage as it had killed their livestock. Therefore, we chose to give it medical attention and brought it for treatment here. It is kept under quarantine at present and we will release it in the wild when it recovers.” Meanwhile, Negi has said that the cub has scarce chance of surviving so much stress and sickness. "My sources in the department have told me that there is just about 10% chance that the cub, who has been separated from its mother, would survive." added Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wildlife-scientists-support-keeping-snow-leopards-at-zoo-in-shimla/articleshow/75563528.cms||Shivani Azad
May 6, 2020||Kochi||With just 30 days in hand, officials to undertake work on priority basis||Kochi: In an effort to contain water-logging during the upcoming rainy season, district administration, on Thursday, initiated a slew of measures to be carried out under second phase of Operation Breakthrough. As part of the second phase of the project, the government is learnt to have given technical sanction for 22 major works which costs around Rs 15 crore. District administration has already undertaken works to the tune of Rs 10 crore as part of first phase of Operation Breakthrough. While the works in the first phase were getting under way, a section of officials associated with the project conducted a detailed study on how to mitigate the water-logging issues in the city which stalls Kochi during rainy season. “We have taken all measures for starting the second phase of the project. We expect that the works can be started within two or three days,” district collector S Suhas told TOI. “Given the fact that the works have to be completed in short span of 30 days when the monsoon is expected to set in, we have prepared a detailed plan for the second phase. We can’t go for executing all the works we have planned. So, we have prioritised certain works on the basis of their outcome and time required for completion,” an official associated with the project said. “Cleaning of mouths of various canals in the city is a major work which we are carrying out now,” he said. Opening the mouths of Thevara-Perandoor canal on Thevara end and its tributary which runs off into backwaters near Thevara will be cleaned. “Mouth of Thevara-Perandoor canal at Thevara is almost closed due to excessive silting. The case is the same with the mouth of its tributary near Mattummal as well. So, we are planning to desilt the canal mouth in these areas,” an official associated with Operation Breakthrough said. “With the canal mouth near Thevara is closed, water from Thevara side should have go to Perandoor, which is around 11km away. If we open the mouth of the canals at Thevara and Mattummel, water from the area can easily run off in to the backwater with is just 600m away,” the official said. Cleaning of canal mouth on Perandoor side also is on the cards. Water from various canals like Railway Nagar Thodu and Karanakkodam Thodu and storm water from many places like Kaloor stadium, Kathrikkadavu, Kadavanthra, Chilavannnoor etc., runs off in to the backwaters through openings like Pandarachira and Chettichira. “There are certain bunds which were constructed for facilitating the works of bridges, viaducts and roads in these areas. We will have to break all these bunds for ensuring smooth flow of water into the backwaters,” the official said. At the same time, there is uncertainty regarding desilting of Thevara-Perandoor canal which is one of the arterial canals in the city. Kochi corporation is already carrying out Rs 18cr-project to desilt and beautify Thevara-Perandoor canal. The work hasn’t registered even 20% progress even though the scheduled completion was six months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-just-30-days-in-hand-officials-to-undertake-work-on-priority-basis/articleshow/75550982.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||H1N1 claimed more young lives, Covid-19 mainly targets elderly||PUNE: The novel coronavirus which has triggered Covid-19 primarily affects the elderly, unlike swine flu (H1N1) which was particularly serious among young healthy adults. A study of fatalities due to the two pandemics — swine flu which started in 2009 and the present Covid-19 — shows that the first one mainly claimed young lives by inducing what is known as the “cytokine storm”, a phenomenon in which an over-reactive immune system reacts violently to a foreign pathogen. Covid-19, on the other hand, has primarily attacked the elderly by taking advantage of weakened immunity and a history of illnesses. This is why experts believe that the number of Covid-19 deaths in India — a country with a “younger” population than say Italy or Spain — has been relatively low. “Swine flu was particularly dangerous for young but otherwise healthy adults as it caused the ‘cytokine storm’ in which the patient’s hyper-activated immune system causes fatal damage to the lungs,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. “But Covid-19 has been causing respiratory complications among the elderly due to decreased immunity and co-morbidities.” Numbers reveal the difference between the two infections — 85% of those who died of swine flu in India were below 60 years of age. But 75% of Covid-19 deaths have been of those 60 or above. While the swine flu pandemic started in 2009, India witnessed a massive surge of infections in 2015 when more than 2,500 people died, compared to 218 deaths just a year before. In Maharashtra, more than 39,000 people were infected in 2015. “In that one year, the toll from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh surpassed the entire H1N1 pandemic toll through 2009 and 2010. The analysis of deaths clearly shows that a significant number of young adults had died of swine flu-induced complications,” Banerjee said. Senior physician D B Kadam, head of the task force in Pune, said: “The swine flu pandemic primarily affected children and young adults. As many as 80% of the deaths were among people younger than 65.” That was unusual, considering that most strains of flu viruses, including those that cause seasonal flu, cause the highest percentage of deaths in people 65 or older. “But in the case of swine flu, the elderly seemed to have built up enough immunity to the group of viruses that H1N1 belongs to,” said senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar, former president of the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter. Agarkhedkar was involved as an investigator in the swine flu vaccine trials. The deaths of young people — mainly those between 21 and 60 — caused concern around the world. “This age group registered the maximum fatalities 2009 onward,” Agarkhedkar said. He explained: “Some influenza viruses, including swine flu, can kill a high number of young people by inducing the cytokine storm. This phenomenon also explains why the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic killed more healthy, young adults.” But Covid-19 has been different. “The elderly are at risk today because of reduced immunity, body reserves and multiple associated comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,” said senior public health expert Subhash Salunke, who is technical advisor to the state government on the Covid-19 containment plan. “Epidemiological (disease spread) rates also depend on the demography of a particular population. It is true that India has a predominantly young population and this may be one of the reasons. It may also be that we are still in the early phase of the Covid-19 epidemic and our early measure of lockdown has prevented the elderly from being infected,” said Mumbai-based pulmonolgist Yatin Dholakia. It is possible that India is missing some Covid-19 deaths, but fatalities have been noticeably lower than those in certain countries. “However, Covid-19’s final case fatality rate cannot be determined until we carry out extensive surveys to track down hidden infections. Once we have this proper denominator, we can determine how much deadlier Covid-19 has been — if it has surpassed swine flu,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swine-flu-claimed-more-young-lives-covid-19-mainly-targets-elderly/articleshow/75565086.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 6, 2020||Goa||Govt taking measures to curb virus spread: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said that though Goa has been classified as a green zone, the government has taken all possible measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. “The smart kiosks installed at the Dodamarg and Keri border checkposts are now operational,” said Rane. He also said that GVK EMRI 108 service has been of great assistance for providing emergency medical technicians. The technicians will collect swabs of travellers entering Goa, and these will be sent for testing.  Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 80 persons were placed in facility quarantine, while eight suspects have been admitted in the isolation ward and 200 samples were tested negative.  Four persons are currently admitted in the isolation ward of GMC, one at North Goa district hospital and six at sub district hospital, Ponda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-taking-measures-to-curb-virus-spread-rane/articleshow/75565105.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||8 of a family test +ve after discharge from quarantine centre||Agra: In yet another case of carelessness by the health department in Agra, eight members of a family tested Covid-19 positive after they were discharged from a quarantine centre. They were sent home after spending 17 days in institutiona quarantine. The family claims that they were not tested for coronavirus even once during their stay at the quarantine facility. The samples of all the 12 members of the family were only collected on April 28, the day they were sent home. After a person tested Covid-19 positive in Lohamandi locality, 12 members of a joint family of two brothers living in a neighbouring house of the infected man were sent to the institutional quarantine centre near Waterworks Crossing. On April 28, all the 12 members of the family were sent back home after they completed 17 days at the quarantine centre. On Monday, evening, eight members of the family were confirmed Covid-19 positive. Then, they were transferred to an isolation facility on the national highway- 2. The older brother, who runs a provisional shop in Lohamandi locality, said, “On April 11, we were first taken to the district hospital. Here, staffers after screening, directed us to an institutional quarantine centre. They said our samples would be collected after 2-3 days. However, during the 17-day quarantine period, none of our 12 family members was tested for Covid-19. Our samples were collected just before we were directed to go home," The younger brother, who is a wholesaler of wheat, said, “My wife and I, my brother and his wife along with our four children had to suffer a lot at the quarantine centre. The arrangements were poor and social distancing could not be followed. The centre did not have proper sanitation and hygiene. We believe we got infected at the centre. We kept on requesting the officials to get our tests done but in vain. Now, eight of us will have to stay in isolation. The government should take strict action against the officials for this carelessness.” Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The matter has come to my notice. I am enquiring about the details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/8-of-a-family-test-ve-after-discharge-from-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75563547.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||‘Delay in making indigenous test kits due to lack of +ve samples’||Mumbai: Amidst concerns over the low rate of Covid testing and faulty Chinese test kits, the government has now come under fire for not supplying a key requirement, ‘blood samples’, to domestic diagnostic industry. The access to ‘positive blood samples' is considered important for development, standardization and batch-testing of diagnostic Covid kits. Industry experts said that without access to positive blood/plasma and throat/nasal swab samples, domestic companies will not be able to produce reliable Covid rapid tests, or PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test kits. Meanwhile, the government continues to place orders with MNCs for imported kits, and some domestic firms are even importing from China and Korea. There are nearly a dozen domestic manufacturers involved in manufacturing Covid rapid and/or PCR test kits, but some have imported basic semi-finished products from China and South Korea to further develop the kits. Meanwhile, Pune-based National Institute of Virology provides ‘positive samples’ for other infectious diseases like HIV, Hep B and C to firms to develop test kits. “We have been asking Indian Council of Medical Research since the last five-six weeks for ‘positive controls’. In the absence of key sample for quality control, we have decided to send kits for validation to ICMR,” Shama Bhat, founder of Bangalore-based Bhat Biotech, a pioneer of diagnostic kits for HIV, hepatitis, malaria, dengue, told TOI. The company is developing three indigenous kits — antigen test, antibody test, and RT-PCR. Access to samples is still a challenge, according to Dr GSK Velu, CMD of Chennai-based Trivitron Healthcare, who, faced with delays in India, decided to import kits with CE (European) certification from the Finnish subsidiary. One of the largest manufacturers of rapid testing kits based in Delhi said it cannot validate test results, without access to positive serum samples. The industry body, Association of Diagnostics Manufacturers of India (ADMI), also flagged the issue recently to NITI Aayog, which then issued a notification asked for full research and ethical committee clearance and a tie up with a government research institution. But the industry says this process will be time-consuming. “The process of accessing known positive samples should be simplified and expedited so that they could be made available to the companies which hold valid test or manufacturing licences at the earliest. The government should make positive samples available to even the private companies who are working independently on the development of Covid-19 kits, and have not partnered with any government laboratories/research bodies. This will facilitate and foster indigenous manufacturing of critical Covid testing kits,” said Veena Kohli, president, ADMI. Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator, Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD), said that many firms are lining up to manufacture Covid-19 kits as well as increasing capacity and they are discouraged when they see large orders being given to importers, and wish they were given an option of matching price and quantity, so that these could be made in India. “Others are seeking removal of restrictions to export if government does not intend to buy (from them). With rampant fake certification, we also need regulation in accreditation, certification bodies, manufacturers and importers claiming to be certified,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delay-in-making-indigenous-test-kits-due-to-lack-of-ve-samples/articleshow/75564468.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 6, 2020||Agra||6 migrants among 7 killed as truck rams auto in Mathura||Agra: At least seven persons, including six migrant labourers, who were stranded in Uttar Pradesh and were returning to their native place in Madhya Pradesh, were killed when a truck collided with an auto in which they were travelling in Mathura on Monday.The victims’ kin said that they had boarded the auto on hearing about an MP-bound bus set to depart on Monday night. The deceased were identified as Ram Sakhi (33) and her two minor daughters Roshni (14) and Laxmi (5), and their relatives Kailash (20), Shivaran (17) and Ruchi (8), and the auto driver, Madan Mohan.Talking to TOI, circle officer in Govardhan, Jitendra Kumar, said the accident took place around 8 pm on Monday near Umri village. The labourers were travelling towards Jajan Patti area in the district after being told that they would get a bus from there to Chhatarpur. However, there was no bus scheduled for MP, confirmed Kumar.He said that the truck laden with watermelons collided with the auto, killing the migrants and the auto driver. Another migrant, Laxmi (27) and her two-year-old girl, Mohini, were injured. They were admitted to a district hospital for treatment and their condition was stated to be critical. The truck driver reportedly fled from the spot, said police.According to Manish Kumar, whose maternal aunt, Ram Sakhi, died in the mishap, all the labourers, who were known to each other, had decided to travel together for their proposed journey to Chhatarpur.On May 1, three migrant workers were killed in a road accident, when a truck rammed into the tractor-trolley, when they reached Aligarh. They had started their foot march from Delhi to Fatehpur in UP and after walking for over 125 km, a tractor driver agreed to transport them a few kilometre.On March 28, four migrant workers, who were walking back to Vasai after the police stopped them at Bhillad on the Maharashtra-Gujarat border were killed after being run over by a truck at Virar on Saturday. The four were part of a group of seven who were trying to reach their villages in Rajasthan after crossing into Gujarat. The other three sustained injuries.On March 27, eight people from Karnataka, including a 3-year-old boy and an 8-year-old girl were killed and three people sustained severe injuries on the outer ring road (ORR) in Shamshabad highway in Hyderabad after a mango-laden lorry rammed into the maxi truck they were travelling in. The maxi truck was carrying 31 migrant labourers who were engaged with a road infrastructure firm at Suryapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-migrants-among-7-killed-as-truck-rams-auto-in-mathura/articleshow/75563544.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||Wipro to pitch in with Covid-19 facility in Pune||PUNE: IT major Wipro will convert about 40,000 sqft of space in its tower at Hinjewadi Phase-I campus into a 450-bed facility for Covid-19 patients. “Wipro has committed to repurpose one of our independent and vacant facilities in Pune into a 450 bed Covid-19 hospital,” Wipro chairman Rishad Premji said. The firm said it would be handed over to the government by May 30 and be converted back into an IT facility after a year. The facility would be equipped to treat moderate cases and will have 12 beds to stabilise critical patients before shifting them to a tertiary care facility. “This humanitarian contribution by Wipro will strengthen our medical infrastructure and benefit the medical fraternity,” CM Uddhav Thackeray said in a note. The company has also set up a special project team to execute this at the earliest. “We are about to begin work on this and a project team is looking into its implementation,” said Deepak Trehan, facilities head at Wipro Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wipro-to-pitch-in-with-covid-facility/articleshow/75565093.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Migrant who came from Gujarat tests positive in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Coronavirus is gradually spreading its tentacles in rural areas of Jodhpur after the borders were opened for the migrant workers to return to their homes. After Luni’s Utesar and Bhandu last week, Shergarh subdivision also reported a positive case on Tuesday. According to CMHO Balwant Manda, a 45-year-old man had come from Gujarat to Devigarh village of Shergarh on May 2. Based on his symptoms, he had been shifted to Jodhpur for screening. His report received on Tuesday declared him Covid-19 positive. Samples of his family members have been sent for testing. The area has been cordoned off to trace his contacts. Earlier, five members of a family in Utesar village of Luni subdivision were tested positive after they came in contact with a migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai. Reports of five others are awaited. According to SDM (Luni) Gopal Parihar, one more positive case reported from Bhandu village has a migrant history. “He had been quarantined after coming from Delhi where his sample tested positive. Now, we have also taken the samples of his contacts including three family members. The entire area in the village has been sealed,” said Parihar. Prior to this, two positive cases had been reported from Pipar city. They had been shifted to Pipar after completing 14-day quarantine period in Jodhpur where they had tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/migrant-who-came-from-guj-tests-ve-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75564479.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Lance Naik Dinesh Singh cremated with state honours||NAINITAL: Lance Naik Dinesh Singh (25), who was martyred in a gunfight with terrorists in Kashmir’s Handwara on May 3, was cremated with state honours at his native Mirgaon village in Bhanoli Tehsil of Almora district on Tuesday. Singh’s body was first brought to Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh by an Army airplane and later, it was taken to Mirgaon village in an Army truck. Hundreds of people took part in the procession as Singh’s body was taken to Rameshwar Ghat for cremation. “The entire village had gathered at Dinesh Singh’s house early in the morning. The convoy stopped at Dhyari and the body was then carried for five kilometers through an uneven track,” said a local who attended Singh’s last rites. The convoy was accompanied by senior Army officials, including Major General Pushpendra Singh. State transport minister Yashpal Arya also attended the funeral and assured the bereaved family that the government will extend all possible help to the family. “We stand by the family in this hour of grief. The entire country is grateful to Lance Naik Dinesh Singh for his supreme sacrifice. We will make sure that his family gets our support,” said Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lance-naik-dinesh-singh-cremated-with-state-honours/articleshow/75563559.cms||Prashant Jha
May 6, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC starts 27 centres to issue health certificates||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has opened up centres at 27 dispensaries and urban health centres across the city to check the health status of travellers and migrants stranded for the past six weeks due to the lockdown. These people will be checked for flu and other symptoms of Covid-19 following which they will be issued medical certificates. Currently, the process of gathering details of all those people stranded in shelter homes across the city is being carried out. "These people will have to register with the district administration to get the travel pass. However, to get the travel pass, they need to have the medical certificates that need to be submitted through digital forms. Those who do not have a smartphone can approach any local ward committee to get registered for the travel pass," a civic official said. Civic cheif Mallinath Kalshetti said, "We have found that the applications made for travel pass are being rejected as they have not attached the medical certificate. The centres will be made operational from Wednesday and we have appointed the doctors and nursing staff at these dispensaries. More temporary dispensaries will be opened if required. We are going to screen the travellers coming to the city at the entry points and they will again be asked to get their health check-up done at our dispensaries." Similar dispensaries will be opened in the rural parts of the district. The district administration has asked the local bodies to get the help of private clinics to get the health check-up done. Meanwhile, a demand has made by minister of state Rajendra Patil to the state government to make transport arrangement available for the students stranded in cities like Pune and Mumbai. "I am receiving requests from students studying for competitive exams and those studying in colleges across the country to get them back to our district. I have written to the state government to appoint a nodal officersto facilitate their transport. I have also requested the government to ensure the health check up of students are carried out at government hospitals in Mumbai and Pune," he said. The KMC has set a target of setting up institutional quarantine centres with capacity of around 10,000 beds. The local ward committees will decide whether the people coming into the city will be home quarantined or institutional quarantined based on their health status and the space at their homes. Meanwhile, the district administration is getting the details of the migrants from other states. After discussing with their respective states transport arrangements such as special train or buses will be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-27-centres-to-issue-health-certificates/articleshow/75564269.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Chittor cops thrash family for flouting curfew, clips go viral||UDAIPUR: Video clips showing a family making frantic appeals for justice against the ruthlessness of policemen from the Kotwali police station of Nimbaheda in Chittorgarh district surfaced on Tuesday. One of the videos shows cops thrashing a man for allegedly violating curfew. In another clip, his family members are showing blue marks on their bodies reportedly after being beaten up by the policemen. The enraged policemen are even heard calling out loudly that if anyone steps out of their houses, their legs would be broken. Women in the household alleged that police showed no mercy on a woman who had delivered a baby just 20 days ago and even a 90-year-old woman was beaten up by them inside her home. The videos that went viral on the social media drew criticism from the civil society which demanded stringent action against such cops who hurled abuses, misbehaved and thrashed women for no fault of theirs. Udaipur IG Binita Thakur said she would inquire about the matter and take action accordingly. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said, “I shall look into the matter and get it checked.” Harendra Sauda, SHO, Nimbaheda, told TOI, “A constable saw a man violating curfew and asked him to go inside but he didn’t listen. A heated argument followed and the family’s women also came out and joined the fight. Few constables, including an ASI, were sent to pacify the people but they wouldn’t listen. Slight force was used to keep them inside. A case has been registered against one man.” The incident took place near Moti Bazaar area at the house of one Vishnu Malviya when his son Nirmal was standing outside his house. The patrolling jeep from Kotwali police station happened to pass by and on seeing the youth, the cops barged inside and thrashed him. When his parents came out and asked why they were hitting their son, the cops allegedly started beating everyone in the family. “My daughter-in-law has delivered a baby just 20 days ago and despite the scarcity of grocery, we have been strictly adhering to the lockdown rules . Yet, the way the cops treated us, hurdled abuses and assaulted us was really inhuman,” said Vishnu's wife Pushpa. Watch Rajasthan: Cops thrash family for flouting curfew, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/chittor-cops-thrash-family-for-flouting-curfew-clips-go-viral/articleshow/75564477.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Contingency plan in place to deal with monsoon maladies||Kochi: In the wake of severe water-logging and flood-like situation in various parts of Ernakulam district, authorities have come up with a detailed plan to mitigate different problems stemming out of monsoon. The district administration has prepared detailed plans to be adopted by each department for avoiding water-logging, and related accidents. As part of the plan, desilting of rivulets, canals and drains in different parts of the district would be carried out by various local bodies and government departments. As per the order issued by collector S Suhas, who is also the head of district disaster management authority, officials who fail to discharge duties in containing water-logging and other mitigating measures will be prosecuted under Section 51 of Disaster Management Act. Major irrigation department and various agencies associated with Periyar Valley Irrigation Project (PVIP) and Muvattupuzha Valley Irrigation Project (MVIP) should clear the obstacles in the rivers like Periyar and Muvattupuzha and ensure smooth flow of water during monsoon. In 2018 and 2019, many places on the banks of these rivers were flooded during monsoon. In Vypeen and Parvaoor areas, rivulets opening to the backwaters should be desilted on a war-footing. Local bodies should take urgent measures to break bunds and other obstacles which prevent smooth flow of water through rivers and rivulets. Local bodies should ensure that fire-fighting facilities of all the hospitals in their limits function properly. No schools and hospitals should be allowed to function if they don’t have fitness certificate. Public works department should conduct inspection and ensure that all these buildings are fit for functioning before monsoon. There should be special efforts to ensure that billboards and makeshift structures are not flown away in the winds, thereby causing accidents. Local bodies should conduct inspections and issue notices to owners to remove the structures or billboards which found to prone to accidents. Such boards and structures should be removed within a week. Local bodies should carry out pruning of trees on roads immediately. A committee comprising village officer, forest range officer and secretary of the local body concerned should decide on whichever trees may fall in the thunderstorm. Heads of various departments should submit application before the committee for felling or pruning such trees. The committee should take a decision on it within two working days. If the committee fails to take the decision within the stipulated time, secretary of the local body who will be its convener will be held responsible for it. On the basis of the decision by the committee, trunks of such trees should be removed immediately. Owners of private land where trees which are prone to falling during the monsoon should fell or prune such trees. If they fail to do so, they should be held responsible for the consequences thereof, the order read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/contingency-plan-in-place-to-deal-with-monsoon-maladies/articleshow/75550994.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Waiting for salary, or else will need a loan to survive||I’m employed in a housekeeping firm and as per the contract, I work at a branded store and also do a part-time job at a computer store. On March 15, I was paid for my monthly work with an advance for the next month. However, I was not paid by the computer outlet which said that my firm will make the payments. I live in Dhamma Nagar slums near the Ganeshpeth Bus Stand with my mother, wife, three-year-old daughter and a nephew. At the branded store, I used to earn Rs6000 a month and Rs4000 from the computer store. Due to the lockdown, I’m not working. I don’t even have a stall to sell vegetables. There is no other source of income. Last month, I exhausted all my savings after three members of my family had to be hospitalized. I was left with just Rs1000 which I used to buy vegetables and oil. I do not have a BPL card but thanks to the Kesari card, I was given 10kg rice and six kg wheat by the government which was a huge relief. We prepare food in the morning and in the evening, our entire family of five survives on the meal distributed by the NGO near the bus stand. I need to go near the location to get the food for my family. I don’t know for how long can we go on like this. I was told that we would get our salary on May 10. If that promised salary is denied, I will be left with no option but to seek a loan from my sister or else we will starve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/waiting-for-salary-or-else-will-need-a-loan-to-survive/articleshow/75564464.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Business||Huge mark-ups, even on PPE, send private hospitals bills soaring||What inflates Covid-19 treatment bills in private hospitals is much the same as what inflated bills in pre-Covid days -- huge margins on diagnostics, consumables and medicines. What is new are inflated charges for protective gear and separate charges for bio waste disposal as if hospitals did not have hazardous bio waste disposal practices in place before Covid happened. With many patients being admitted for 10-15 days, the costs add up and bills of Rs 4 lakh to Rs 16 lakh have grabbed headlines. In the case of consumables and medicines, the modus operandi is what was exposed by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) in 2018 -- procuring at a fraction of the maximum retail price (MRP) but charging patients the MRP. Since the government did nothing to address the problem, it continues. Common investigations like a liver function or kidney function test, which costs Rs 400-800 at best in independent labs, are being billed Rs 3,000-3,500. Similarly, procalcitonin, a test to check for bacterial infections, costs Rs 1,100-3,600 in an independent lab but can cost an inpatient Rs 5,500 to over Rs 9,500. The pattern holds for tests, big or small. With each patient needing 3-5 covid tests, hospitals are charging the maximum allowed, Rs 4,500, though it has become evident that the actual cost could be less than half. In the case of medicines, a telling example is that of meropenem, a high end antibiotic. It is procured by hospitals for Rs 500-900 per gram and charged at the MRP of Rs 3,330 per gram with a patient requiring two to three grams in a day, adding thousands to the bill each day. Just as NPPA uncovered in 2018, the margins taken by hospital on medicines can be as high as 500% and on consumables even higher than 1,000% in some cases. While this is business as usual, Covid has added some new elements. “In the name of isolation, patients are being charged for first class single room or even for single deluxe room. Chest CTs are being insisted upon. Despite being stable, many are being put in ICUs where charges are significantly higher. No rational or standard guidelines are being followed on how many times patients need to be tested or in making them repeat tests when admitted even if they already have the test result. When a patient ran up a bill of Rs 80,000 within eight hours of being admitted, it was a shocker even by standards of private hospitals,” said a senior consultant in a prominent hospital in Mumbai. Hospitals are also charging patients Rs 2,200 or more for every personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and other protection wear such as coveralls and masks. “Good quality PPE kits could cost Rs 800-Rs 1,200 to a hospital. With rational use and if the PPE cost is spread over the many patients admitted, it would add up to about three PPE per patient, which hospitals are charging at MRP,” said a senior consultant in a private multi-specialty hospital. One hospital bill TOI analysed had charges for ‘care and hygiene’, for ‘Covid bio medical waste disposal’ and for a Covid RMO (resident medical officer) that added up to almost Rs 3,500 a day. The Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMed) has written to the health ministry several times since 2018 seeking regulation of hospital margins on medical devices and consumables. “Such irrational MRPs should not be allowed. The government ought to to monitor and regulate it as procurement by hospitals hinge on who is willing to print the highest MRP while giving them the lowest price,” said Rajiv Nath, convenor of AiMed. The NPPA too had recommended rationalisation of margins to prevent exploitation of patients admitted to private hospitals. This had also been recommended by a committee of the pharmaceutical department in 2016. Niti Aayog was to look into the matter, but has done little so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/huge-mark-ups-even-on-ppe-send-private-hospitals-bills-soaring/articleshow/75565952.cms||Rema Nagarajan
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Final batch of nine Iran evacuees discharged from AIIMS Jodhpur||Jodhpur: All the remaining evacuees from Iran, admitted in the AIIMS here after they had tested positive, have been discharged. Last batch of nine such positive cases, was discharged on Tuesday after they tested negative in follow-up tests. Confirming their discharge, an official from AIIMS said that total 61 evacuees had been admitted in AIIMS over time after they had tested positive. “We kept discharging them as they tested negative. Final batch of nine cases was discharged on Tuesday after they were confirmed negative,” said the official adding that there is not a single evacuee from Iran who is admitted in AIIMS today. The first positive case among these evacuees had been reported from Jaisalmer Army Wellness facility on March 30 and a total 61 of them tested positive in regular testing from both Jaisalmer and Jodhpur Army Wellness facilities since then. It may be noted that 1,036 Indians from Iran had been air-lifted and shifted to Jaisalmer and Jodhpur Army Wellness Centres in five batches in March. These evacuees included both — those studying and working there. Of this, 484 had been accommodated in Jaisalmer and 552 had been accommodated in Jodhpur, where they were provided with all the amenities including entertainment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/final-batch-of-nine-iran-evacuees-discharged-from-aiims-jodhpur/articleshow/75564481.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||Boy among five dead, 79 turn positive in Pune||Pune: Five more patients, including an 11-year-old boy, succumbed to Covid-19 infection and 79 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, taking the casualty and cases counts to 120 and 2,201, respectively, in Pune. Among the positive cases, highest (63) were reported in Pune municipal limits, increasing the total patient count to 1,939. Twelve fresh cases were recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas, while rural areas and Cantonment regions reported four cases collectively. Civic health officials said they had intensified health surveys in the containment areas and micro clusters. “Symptomatic people are under close watch. The cleaning activities in the slum pockets have been increased. The community toilets are undergoing deep cleaning at regular intervals throughout the day,” a civic official said. On Tuesday, 825 samples were sent for testing, while 55 patients were discharged from various hospitals after they were declared cured. So far, 493 people have been discharged from various health facilities in PMC limits, while 55 have been discharged from different hospitals in PCMC limits after treatment completion. Among the dead, the 11-year-old boy from Warje Malwadi was admitted in the Sassoon hospital on May 3. He died due to septic shock and bilateral pneumonia with developmental delay. Two other deaths were reported on Monday at the Sassoon hospital, including a 31-year-old man from Bhatnagar, Yerawada, and a 63-year-old man from Bhavani Peth. One more person, a 66-year-old man from Padmavati, was reported dead on Tuesday at a private hospital. He had hypertension and died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome with bilateral pneumonia, among others. Till now, a maximum of 74 deaths have been recorded at Sassoon General Hospital, a majority of which occurred due to delayed medical intervention. In PCMC limits, the case count has increased to 135, Pavan Salve, medical officer of health, PCMC, said. A total of 64 patients are currently undergoing treatment in PCMC limits. One area each in Chinchwad and Moshi will be sealed from 11pm on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boy-among-five-dead-79-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75565099.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three Jaisalmer cops hurt in stone-pelting, six held||JAISALMER: Three police personnel including Lathi SHO and a villager were injured after stones were pelted on policemen on duty over a small dispute in Khetolai village of Pokhran sub-division in Jaisalmer district on Tuesday. So far, six people have been arrested in the matter. A dispute that was on between a woman computer operator and a doctor in the village for the past few days took an ugly turn on Tuesday evening. Angry crowds took to stone pelting on the police and the computer operator attacked some of the villagers with a chair later. On getting information, Pokhran Dy SP, along with force of other police stations, reached the spot and dispersed the mob. Three police personnel including Lathi SHO and a villager were injured in the incident and six persons were arrested. SP Kiran Kang said computer operator Sharda Vishnoi on Monday lodged a case against the PHC Dr Sanjay Meena and other health workers for molesting her. Following this, the doctor and other employees locked the PHC and boycotted work. Khetolai villagers supported locking of the PHC by the doctor and nursing staff, and gathered at the primary health centre. Later, a group of Vishnoi’s supporters also reached the PHC and the two groups broke into a fight. Police on getting information reached Khetolai. The SHO tried to pacify the villagers in vain. The SHO then deployed police force at the spot and through loudspeaker, asked the people to not gather in a crowd and to abide by Section 144 and the curfew, but the villagers did not comply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-jaisalmer-cops-hurt-in-stone-pelting-6-held/articleshow/75564502.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||10 more positive cases surface in Agra, tally increases to 640||Agra: About 10 more Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 640. Also, 26 patients were cured of the infection and discharged from the hospital. Firozabad also reported 10 new cases, including the death of a patient, taking the total number of cases to 167. According to the health department, 41 patients were discharged. Meanwhile, localities in Agra where the new Covid-19 cases surfaced include Awas Vikas Colony, Mahaveer Nagar, Jeevani Mandi, Ashok Nagar, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi, Balkeshwar and Panchkuiyan. Talking to TOI, chief medical officer, Agra, Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their house and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to the health department, out of the 640 cases surfaced in Agra, about 105 cases are related to the people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. About 100 cases are linked to a private hospital on the national highway-2. Another 28 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in the Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Moreover, 60 reported positive are healthcare workers and their contacts. As many as 26 cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts and 28 tested positive are vegetable sellers in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 234 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. The area and its vicinity where the infected people were staying is being sanitized. We are doing a massive sampling in these areas to identify all the infected patients and send them to quarantine.” Meanwhile, a press statement issued by chief medical officer, Firozabad, Dr S K Dixit, said, “ “The positive cases were from gully number 5, and 18 of Gandhi Nagar, Purani Mandi, Lahari compound Kotla road, Kishorepur Makhnapur, Mohalla Rajputana, Usaini village, Nai Basti and other areas. In Mansur Ganj, a Covid-19 infected patient succumbed, taking the toll death to three in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-more-positive-cases-surface-in-agra-tally-increases-to-640/articleshow/75563561.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||1,362 booked for traffic violation||COIMBATORE: The city saw 1,362 cases of traffic violation on the first day of relaxing lockdown norms on Monday. R Mutharasu, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “We have registered 1,362 cases in a day. While 100 bikers were booked for triple riding, 40 were booked for operating autorickshaws and call taxis. As per the government order, autos and call taxis are not allowed to ply till May 17. So, those operating them will be booked for violating the prohibitory orders.” He said the remaining were booked for not wearing helmets while riding motorcycles. Traffic police have recorded the traffic violations on Police E-Eye app and challans would be issued to the offenders soon. To capture the traffic rule violations, the city police have installed smart cameras, which would generate photo challan automatically, on Avinashi Road (from Varadarajapuram signal to SITRA), Sathy Road, Trichy Road and Mettupalayam Road. If motorists violate the traffic rules on these four stretches, photo images with the type of offence would be sent to police control room. The city traffic police have not, however, booked cases through the smart cameras since March 25. “We plan to resume booking the traffic rule violators with the help of smart camers from Wednesday,” Mutharasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1362-booked-for-traffic-violation/articleshow/75564489.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||Excise dept & divisional chief issue conflicting orders for crowd control||Pune: The divisional commissioner and the state excise department issued separate orders — with different, conflicting guidelines — to manage and restrict crowds at retail liquor outlets.The former mandated the use of time-based tokens, while the latter directed stores to implement a form system — confusing many retailers.The divisional commissioner’s order directed liquor stores, staffed by a maximum of four, to ensure there no long queues outside, with one staffer managing customers. Further, the order said if more than 30 customers are in line, they would be assigned coloured tokens with date and time — white for the morning (10am-2pm) and yellow for the afternoon (2pm-5.30pm). “The pass should have the shop’s seal and a serial number,” the order stated, adding that 50 people must be served per 30-minute window.The excise department issued an SOP, directing stores to draw “social distancing squares”, six feet apart (five feet, as pet the divisional commissioner’s order). The SOP said customers must fill forms with quantity and brand preferences and be assigned a token. Liquor retailers in the city slammed the orders. One retailer said, “The excise department has no manpower to support vendors, while police are lodging cases. These orders will be impossible to adhere to.”Another said, “It is unrealistic to assume four persons can control such large crowds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/excise-dept-divisional-chief-issue-conflicting-orders-for-crowd-control/articleshow/75565095.cms||Neha Madaan
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Third member of family in Boloor tests +ve||Mangaluru: The third member of a family in Boloor, in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Designated P-658 in the state bulletin, the patient is a 51-year-old, and the son-in-law of P-536, the patient zero of this Boloor family. Incidentally, P-579, the husband of P-536, too had tested positive on May 1. The trio are undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid hospital in Dakshina Kannada. The day’s development saw Dakshina Kannada placed 11th in the state for Covid-19 patients, with 10 active cases. A total 19 residents of the district have been afflicted with Covid-19 so far. Dakshina Kannada also had six Covid-19 patients from outside the district, but they were treated at the designated hospital here. The district has recorded three deaths due to Covid-19 so far. P-536, a patient with TB meningitis, had been treated and discharged from First Neuro Hospital, which is now a supervised isolation centre. The district has also seen the discharge of 12 patients, including four from Kasaragod, and one each from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada and Karkala in Udupi district, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. Boloor has already been declared a containment zone. Incidentally, on May 3, the DC had denotified Thumbe in Bantwal taluk and Sampya in Puttur taluk as containment zones, as no positive cases were reported there in the last 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/third-member-of-family-in-boloor-tests-ve/articleshow/75562041.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Liquor sale dips to one-fifth a day after frenzied buying||PRAYAGRAJ: The crazy rush for liquor faded considerably on Tuesday just a day after witnessing frenzied buying in Prayagraj when the shops had opened after a 40-day ‘dry spell’ due to coronavirus lockdown. Liquor sales in the city slumped to one fifth within 24 hours, dipping to Rs 1 crore from Rs 5 crore on Monday. There was comparatively muted rush at liquor stores across Prayagraj with sales of indian made foreign liquor, beer and country liquor witnessing a dip. District excise officer (DEO) Prayagraj, S B Modwel told TOI on Tuesday, “There was comparatively thin turnout at liquor counters today. The department recorded sale of Rs 1 crore on Tuesday. We had recorded sale of Rs 5 crore from the 421 shops of country liquor, 199 shops of indian made foreign liquor, 190 beer shops and 12 model shops in Prayagraj district on Monday.” The sale of country liquor was worst hit in both rural and urban pockets of the district as compared to IMFL and beer. The reason for the less sale of country liquor is reduced purchasing capacity of buyers, said officials. The owners and staff of liquor stores said the sales started early in the day but there were hardly any buyers after 1 pm. “If we compare, the sales were lull on Tuesday. Our staff was busy throughout Monday. About 500-700 customers had bought liquor from our stores on Monday,” said a shop keeper at Civil Lines. Unlike Monday, when there were long queues outside liquor stores across the city and district, there was much less rush, he added. However, customers were seen following social distancing and at least two policemen were seen at each shop for crowd management. Both sellers and buyers were wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-liquor-sale-dips-to-one-fifth-a-day-after-frenzied-buying/articleshow/75565950.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Domestic helps resume work in some colonies||LUCKNOW: Many households in residential colonies started calling domestic helps for work following district administration’s green signal for select services while ensuring that the stipulated safety protocols are followed strictly. However, the residents’ welfare associations (RWA) of several apartments are still divided on whether to allow entry to domestic helps, milkmen and newspaper hawkers among others in the condominiums. Rajnish Singh, a resident of Mahanagar, said, “Many people in my locality are calling domestic helps to work, but only if they live nearby, stick to hygiene, follow all safety protocols and have no links with the hotspots in the city.” “The decision is beneficial for the domestic helps also because many of them were not being paid by employers for the forced lockdown leave,” he added. Domestic helps resumed work in some parts of Aliganj, Niralanagar and Nishatganj also, however, Gomtinagar RWA has no plans to allow them entry in at least 15 apartments under its jurisdiction. Gomtinagar RWA secretary Roop Kumar Sharma said, “One domestic help works in at least 10-15 flats, we do not want to take the risk of giving the virus any chance to spread. We do not have any plans of allowing entry to domestic helps till May 17.” Residents of Bharni Apartments in Transportnagar failed to arrive at a consensus on letting domestic helps resume duties. The RWA secretary, Devesh Kushwaha, said, “Some residents of our housing complex are asking the committee to allow domestic helps. However, the committee has decided against it as we do not want to take any wrong step in this fight against coronavirus.” The RWA of Samar Vihar housing colony in Alambagh has allowed domestic helps to resume their duties. RWA president Kripal Singh said, “We have taken all necessary precautions. We give sanitizer and masks to domestic helps before they enter our colony. These workers get many benefits on daily basis besides the fixed wages, so they are also readily joining. We cannot tell them to quit work during this crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/domestic-helps-resume-work-in-some-colonies/articleshow/75565120.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: In two days, over 3,000 return home||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 3,363 Keralites, who were stranded in other Indian states owing to the national lockdown, have returned home through inter-state borders, though confusion prevailed at entry points leading to a delay in completion of procedures. The state government also made a major amendment in the guidelines issued earlier with regard to quarantine norms for inter-state travel by mandating a compulsory 7-day institutional quarantine for those coming from red zone districts in other states. "As many as 1,80,540 persons stranded in other states have registered on Norka (website) and the state has issued passes to 25,410 persons," said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday. But, several people were stranded at entry points as they did not have passes from the states where they began their journey, the CM said, urging people who want to return to ensure that they have the required permission from the origin point. Vijayan also said that efforts were on to bring back students from far-off places like Delhi, Punjab and Haryana by facilitating a centralized travel arrangement from Delhi. "The government is also aware about the shortage of vehicles for inter-state journey and is taking necessary steps to resolve this issue," he said. Meanwhile, a group of around 40 Malayalis were stranded at Kaliyikkavila on Tamil Nadu-Kerala border for almost six hours on Tuesday as they didn’t have exit passes from Tamil Nadu authorities. However, they were permitted to cross the border after the intervention of the district collectors of Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari and local MLAs. Of the 191 persons who reached the state via Inchivila checkpost on Tamil Nadu-Kerala border on Tuesday, 167 people were allowed to enter the state after screening, while the screening of the rest is progressing, said an official release. As many as 24 persons were allowed to enter the state through this checkpost on Monday. Three sent to Covid centre from WalayarThree homoeo medical students who came from Salem in Tamil Nadu through Walayar check post were sent to Covid-19 centre after testing them at district hospital since they were having fever. They hail from Kozhikode and Kannur districts, the health department officials said. Meanwhile, a 54-year old man, who came with five others in a car from Chennai, had a heart attack as he reached Walayar checkpost on his way to his house at Kuzhalmannam in the district. He was admitted to the district hospital. 126 people arrive via Aryankavu Keralites numbering 126 crossed over into the state from Tamil Nadu in 59 vehicles through the Aryankavu checkpost on Tuesday. Punalur RDO Sasikumar, district rural police chief Hari Sankar and other officials received the family of Shinu from Thevallakkara, who arrived first. Earlier, district collector B Abdul nazar visited the checkpost and reviewed the arrangements for receiving those arriving from across the border. Pass has been issued to 679 people to cross the borders via Aryankavu in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/in-two-days-over-3k-return-home/articleshow/75562085.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Industries can function with some curbs in Virudhunagar||Madurai: The Virudhunagar district administration has permitted the functioning of industries with certain restrictions from May 6. However, industries situated in Covid-19 containment zones would not be permitted to function. District collector R Kannan said that cracker units which are situated outside the municipal limits and containment zones are permitted to function with 50% employees.He also said that all safety matches units could function as they come under essential commodities category. Similarly, all printing units in the district are permitted to function with 50% employees. He said that micro, small and medium enterprises situated in village panchayat and town panchayat limits, textile industries situated at Seithur, Chettiyarpatti, Kariapatti, Watrap and Mamsapuram town panchayats would be permitted to function with 50% employees.The collector said all these industries must function only after obtaining permission from the authorities. The industries should also obtain passes for the employees and vehicle passes. He further said that all industries should strictly follow the standard operating procedures such as social distancing, spraying disinfectants and wearing masks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/industries-can-function-with-some-curbs-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/75564517.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Orders reserved on bail plea of man who helped Indonesians||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday reserved orders on a bail plea filed by a person who was arrested for helping Indonesian nationals involved in religious propaganda at Ramanathapuram district, by violating their visa conditions.Justice G Jayachandran reserved orders on the petition filed by Moomin Ali, a resident of R S Mangalam in Ramanathapuram district.The petitioner along with two other locals had helped eight Indonesian nationals who had come to India on tourist visa. The Indonesian nationals were made to stay in a mosque in Bharathi Nagar for carrying out religious propaganda with the help of the petitioner by violating curfew conditions.The Kenikkarai police had registered a case against 11 people including the eight Indonesians and Ali under sections of the IPC, Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and National Disaster Management Act.In his petition, the petitioner stated that he is not involved in any such offence as alleged by the prosecution. He stated that he was falsely implicated in this case and is in judicial custody since April 9.Since his earlier bail application was dismissed on April 12, the petitioner filed his second bail application. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/orders-reserved-on-bail-plea-of-man-who-helped-indonesians/articleshow/75564496.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Jaipur||Tweet against Rahul Gandhi: Rajasthan HC quashes FIR against J P Nadda||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Tuesday stayed the FIR against BJP president J P Nadda lodged by a Congress worker in relation to a tweet by BJP’s IT Cell head Amit Malviya. The court issued notice to the state government and the petitioner, Congress worker from Hanumangarh Manoj Kumar Saini seeking reply in six weeks. In his tweet, Malviya had commented on Rahul Gandhi with regard to Sonia Gandhi crediting him for success of Rajasthan’s Bhilwara model to control Covid-19. Saini had filed an FIR against Malviya and Nadda for this tweet terming it to be disparaging for Rahul and Sonia Gandhi. Nadda had moved high court praying quashing of the FIR stating that he had no role in this tweet by Malviya. Arguing from petitioner’s side, senior advocate R D Rastogi said that the tweet had been made from the personal account of Malviya and Nadda had no role in it. “He has been falsely accused of controlling the office of Malviya,” Rastogi argued. Accepting the arguments, Justice P S Bhati stayed the FIR against Nadda and observed, “the court prima facie finds that the tweet had been made by Amit Malviya and the petitioner (Nadda) had no role in tweeting the information in question”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tweet-against-raga-raj-hc-quashes-fir-against-nadda/articleshow/75564504.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Centre told to pass orders on extension of time in PG medical seats issue||Madurai: The state government has told the Madras high court that it has sought permission from the Centre to conduct counselling for management seats in self-financing medical colleges and for extension of date for candidates to resign from PG seats obtained under all-India quota. Following this, the court on Tuesday directed the Centre to consider the same and pass orders on merits by Wednesday. The court was hearing a petition filed by B Abimathi, who sought a direction to conduct and conclude the counselling of PG medical seats in private/non-governmental medical institutions along with the state government quota seats for the academic year 2020-2021 on or before May 8.Abimathi in her petition stated that she had completed MBBS in Medicine and Surgery in 2018 and had participated in the PG NEET exam in 2020. During the first round of counselling in all-India quota, she secured a seat for Master of Surgery in Obstetrics and Gynaecology in a college and had paid admission fees. She said that she intends to further participate in counselling in the state government quota seats including those in non-government institutions. However, one of the conditions to participate in the state quota is that they would have to resign from the seat secured under all-India quota by May 8.The selection committee of the directorate of medical education, had not included management seats in private/non-government medical institutions in the notification issued for counselling under the state quota. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. During the hearing, the standing counsel for the committee informed that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the time schedule for filling up seats in state quota has been extended. He further submitted that the committee had in a communication dated May 5, sent to the director general of health services, union ministry of health and family welfare seeking to grant permission to conduct counselling for management seats in self-financing medical colleges. The committee has also sought to extend the date of resignation from respective colleges for students who joined under all-India quota seats in first round of counselling, from May 8 to May 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-told-to-pass-orders-on-extension-of-time-in-pg-medical-seats-issue/articleshow/75564513.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 6, 2020||Goa||GMC opens its OPD, first day sees just 350 patients||Panaji: The reopening of the outpatient department (OPD) of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, on Tuesday saw 350 persons attend. OPDs in all government hospital were ordered to be opened after a month-long closure owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. GMC dean S M Bandekar told TOI that all regular OPDs were started in the tertiary care hospital with proper social distancing norms. OPD patients, he said, were not allowed in together and were instructed to wait their turn in the waiting area. They were then allowed in batches. “Security personnel have been trained to take 10 patients each to be distributed between different OPDs. All our OPDs have started today (Tuesday),” he said. Pandals will be put in GMC premises for OPDs patients. Though 350 OPD registrations were done on Tuesday, the days to come are expected to see the numbers go up. “Since people were not aware, we had few OPD patients on Day-1,” he said. At all OPD entry points, he said, hand sanitiser bottle have been placed and the temperature of patients is being checked with a thermal gun. “Those having high temperature are separated and referred to the flu OPD,” he said. One of the nurses said that there was a larger crowd in the morning but they managed to follow social distancing norms. “We expect to see our regular crowd of OPD patients once the public transport system becomes fully operational,” she said. Earlier in the day, health minister Vishwajit Rane had a meeting with heads of departments (HOD) of GMC and health officials of public health department to chalk out standard operating procedure for OPDs in view of the Covid-19 threat. All OPDs will function at 50% patient load. It has also been decided to build a temporary flu OPD outside all community health centres, public health centres and GMC, with social distancing norms to be strictly followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-opens-its-opd-first-day-sees-just-350-patients/articleshow/75565141.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||No nod to appoint drivers for fire dept||NAGPUR: The NMC standing committee on Tuesday sent back the fire and emergency services department’s proposal to appoint 11 retired drivers to overcome manpower shortage. The department is facing acute manpower crunch and spraying of disinfectants by 10 fire tenders across the city has created additional shortage of drivers. So the department had submitted a proposal to appoint 11 retired drivers from the department. The panel, headed by BJP corporator Vijay Zalke, also sent back a proposal to extend services of engineers appointed on contract basis and project management consultant for Nagpur river pollution abatement. The panel approved a proposal to purchase Rs 9.91 crore hydraulic platform and also gave nod to dispose of Rs 12.31 lakh material including electronic, kitchenware goods, automobile parts, hardware etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-nod-to-appoint-drivers-for-fire-dept/articleshow/75564499.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Dehradun||Almora agri dept to subsidise 80% cost of a new, scientifically-designed plough||Almora: To help farmers in distress amid the lockdown, Almora’s agriculture department has announced a subsidy of up to 80% of the price of a special plough designed by Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS) and Syahidevi Vikas Manch. The department said this plough makes farming easier and also stop farmers from felling trees to carve farm equipment. “To help farmers, the department has decided to give up to 80% subsidy on this specially-designed plough. This will help farmers facing problems in lockdown, as well as stop them from cutting oak and other important forests, as villagers often fell these trees to make ploughs,” said Priyanka Singh, chief agriculture officer, Almora. The officer said farmers can buy these ploughs from any office or help centre of the department. “This plough is made using lightweight metal, due to which it can be easily transported from one field to another, which is very important for farmers in the hills, where farms are scattered. The blade has been designed to make farming easier, and is more durable than the traditional plough,” J S Bisht, principal scientist and acting head of crops production development at VPKAS told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almora-agri-dept-to-subsidise-80-cost-of-a-new-scientifically-designed-plough/articleshow/75563594.cms||Rohit Joshi
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore police assure guest workers they’ll go home||COIMBATORE: City police officials assured guest workers that they would return to their home soon. In a meeting with 750 guest workers from Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand at Singanallur on Monday, officials said the state government has been taking necessary steps to send them to their hometown. The meeting happened to prevent illegal travelling of guest workers to their hometown. Most of them were employed at cotton godowns and casting companies at SIHS Colony, Ondipudur and Neelikonampalayam. Police officials promised the guest workers full support. They provided them food and instructed them how to register their names online . Deputy commissioner of police (law&order) L Balaji Saravanan, assistant commissioner Somasundaram, Singanallur inspector Muneeswaran and sub-inspector Arjun were present at the meeting. They also met another 400 guest workers on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-assure-guest-workers-theyll-go-home/articleshow/75564510.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||Police registers seven cases against liquor shop owners||Pune: Not following social distancing norms while dealing with customers has landed seven liquor shop owners in trouble with the city police. The Hadapsar police station on Monday registered offences under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act.A large number of people had gathered at all liquor shops in the city after the state government allowed sale in non-containment zones during the lockdown. The city police issued notices to all shops under Section 149 of the CrPC to ensure social distancing norms. The shop owners had been asked to adopt a token system and appoint staff to maintain social distance.An officer from the Hadapsar police station told TOI that on Monday when the police teams checked liquor shops in the area, they found that many owners did not follow social distancing norms. They weren’t wearing masks or carrying sanitisers either. “We took action against seven such shop owners,” the officer said.Assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad Shridhar Jadhav told TOI that on Monday the police issued directives to all the liquor shops owners and even made announcements through the public announcement system.Meanwhile, liquor stores in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad saw long queues of customers on Tuesday as well. Despite the scorching heat, customers preferred to wait in the queue outside liquor shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-registers-seven-cases-against-liquor-shop-owners/articleshow/75565126.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Inter-state travel scheme for stranded persons hits a snag||Mangaluru: Those who wanted to travel to other states, through the government’s one-time inter-state travel scheme, have been having a harrowing time, and are unable to register online, due to a technical snag. As per a cabinet decision, the government launched a one-time scheme for people to travel inter-state, who are stranded in Karnataka. Accordingly, those who want to travel to other states were asked to submit an application by logging on to sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in. However, people who attempted the same, were disappointed to see the message, “This service is currently unavailable,” after clicking on the link. The portal sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in, has a separate link for those who want to travel to other Indian states from Karnataka. However, the service is not available due to a technical error. The government processes all submitted applications at the state level. If the state where the beneficiary intends to go accepts it, then permission to travel will be given by the government of Karnataka. Permitted passengers will be able to travel, after receiving instructions from the state government nodal officer. Sadiq K, whose family is stranded in Mangaluru due to the lockdown, said that he tried to apply to get his family to enter Kerala through the portal several times. “My family is currently living in an apartment in Mangaluru, and want to go back to Kasaragod. I have been trying since morning to register the names of my family members by using the link sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in, but in vain,” he said. Dakshina Kannada district urban development cell deputy director Gayathri Nayak said, “There is some technical issue which is causing the problem. We are addressing it, and we have also brought the issue to the notice of the state government. It may take some time to restore the facility,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/inter-state-travel-scheme-for-stranded-persons-hits-a-snag/articleshow/75562086.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Cops seize 8,500 litres of spirit in multiple raids||Kochi: In multiple raids conducted across the district on Wednesday night and Thursday early morning, Ernakulam rural police seized around 8,500 litres of spirit illegally smuggled into the district from Goa, to be sold as illicit liquor. According to sources, police seized the chemical from Chottanikkara and Aluva. Police suspect that a racket was behind the supply of the chemical in rural areas. The chemical was brought to the state in the guise of medicines and it was stored as sanitizers. Police seized fake labels from the accused as well. “Our initial investigation shows that the gang was based in Aluva. They used to dilute the spirit, add flavour and colour and then sell it off as liquor. It was dangerous as it could have led to serious health issues if not for the timely intervention,” said Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick. It was on Wednesday evening that the police unearthed 2,495 litres of spirit from a house at Chottanikkara based on a tip off received by the rural SP. Two persons, identified as Manoj Kunnath and Abdul Salam, the driver of the vehicle who brought the spirit to the house, were arrested from the spot. Based on the information received from the accused at Chottanikkara, police conducted raids in towns like Kalady, Perumbavoor and Aluva on Wednesday night. On Thursday early morning, police raided a godown owned by one Mansoor Ali at Ashokapuram in Aluva and seized as much as 5,883 litres of spirit. The spirit was stored in 1,800 plastic containers, police said. Police said that the accused used fake bills showing that the spirit was meant for making sanitizer. “We have seized some labels as well. They used to print labels and paste it on the containers to claim that it was sanitizer. They did this mainly while transporting. So when the police started tightening surveillance they were forced to transport it to various locations so that all of it wouldn’t be caught at once,” said an officer. Police said that the man arrested at Chottanikkara has claimed that he was offered Rs 50,000 to store the chemical at the house for two days. Earlier, police had arrested three persons with 100 litres of spirit at Kalady on Monday. Police had also seized essence used for making illicit liquor from them. Police had found out that the accused used to sell the illicit liquor as Indian made foreign liquor, mostly as brandy, after pasting fake labels on the bottles. They used to sell the illicit liquor for Rs 3,500 per litre, police said. Police said that all three seizures, as per their preliminary investigation, are connected. “It seems like the spirit seized at Chottanikkara and Kalady were sourced from Aluva. Some of the key accused have gone into hiding. We will get a better picture about the racket once these accused are arrested,” said a senior officer, adding that more seizures are likely to happen in the coming days. Police have registered separate cases in Aluva, Kalady and Chottanikkara and a special investigation team was formed to probe them. Ernakulam rural additional SP, MJ Sojan is heading the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-seize-8500-litres-of-spirit-in-multiple-raids/articleshow/75551057.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||A day after, liquor sale plunges by 75%||LUCKNOW: A day after record buying, liquor sale in the city plunged by 75% on Tuesday. As most bacchus lovers had purchased liquor on Monday, only a few came out to buy Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country liquor on Tuesday. Most stores were also either out of stock or left with only local or expensive brands, which only few customers prefer to buy. Liquor shops had resumed operation after 45-day dry spell on Monday. On day one, total sale of Rs 6.3 crore was recorded. “On Tuesday, the sale dropped to Rs 1.90 crore which included about 49,500 litres IMFL worth Rs 1.1 crore and 40,000 litres of country made liquor worth Rs 80 lakh,” said Kanhaiya Maurya, secretary Lucknow Liquor Traders Association. “In comparison, 1.98 lakh litres IMFL worth Rs 4.7 crore and 80,000 litres country liquor worth Rs 1.6 crore were sold on Monday,” he added. Deputy commissioner (excise), Lucknow, Jainendra Upadhaya said, “Fresh IMFL stock is in transit from factories in different parts of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-day-after-liquor-sale-plunges-by-75/articleshow/75565128.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Plea to extend deadline to stop sale of loose cooking oil||Madurai: Members of the Madurai Oil and Oil Seeds Association have urged the state government to extend the deadline for winding up the loose sale of cooking oil. The Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restrictions on Sales Regulations 2011), has banned the selling, buying and distribution of edible oil in the loose form. The officials had told traders in the state that the ban on loose sale of edible oil would strictly be imposed from June 1, 2020. In a petition dated May 4, the association has urged the chief minister to put off the strict enforcement of the the ban till June 1, 2021. The association said that sale of cooking oil in loose form was going on in neighbouring states like Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.The association stated that packaging of oil will increase the cost by Rs 8 per packet. This would lead to rise in the price of oil sold, adding to the burden of poor people during this lockdown period. Moreover, the pouches and bottles selling oil would be made of plastic adding to environmental issues, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-extend-deadline-to-stop-sale-of-loose-cooking-oil/articleshow/75564524.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||Aligarh reports second Covid death, Mainpuri first||Agra: The novel coronavirus death toll increased to two in Aligarh on Tuesday with the death of a 45-year-old woman and one more tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 44 in the district. Talking to TOI, chief development officer (CDO) Anunaya Jha, said, “The deceased was a 45-year-old woman and was admitted at the isolation ward of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. She was a resident of Usmanpara”. Talking about the fresh case reported, Jha said, “The patient is a 50-year-old woman from Sarai Hakim area. So far, 11 patients out of 44 have been cured and only 31 are under treatment, after the death of the two patients.” Meanwhile, Mainpuri administration on Tuesday quarantined the family members of a 22-year-old suspected Covid-19 man, who died in the Safai PGI on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Incidentally, the youth’s test report confirmed his positive status on Tuesday, hours after his death. The Punjabi Colony area, where the deceased lived, has been completely sealed within one-kilometre radius by the administration While this was the first Covid related death in the district, a 32-year-old woman from Awas Vikas colony also tested positive for the infection. The health department officials said her sample was taken after her brother was tested positive in Agra hospital, as she used to visit him in the hospital. Till now, 10 cases, including the deceased 22-year-old man, have been reported in the district. However, 8 persons have been discharged after recovery. In Mathura, one more tested positive for coronavirus, taking the tally to 32 in the district. The patient is an 18-year-old boy from Muniyar colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-reports-second-covid-death-mainpuri-first/articleshow/75563636.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||CRPF martyr to be laid to rest in Tenkasi today||Tenkasi: Moondru Vaikal village near Sengottai in Tenkasi district sunk in grief over the martyrdom of C Chandra Sekar, 31, in a gun battle with terrorists in Kashmir’s Handwara in Kupwara district on Monday evening. Sekar was among three CRPF personnel killed in the attack. His mortal remains will be laid to rest in Sengottai on Wednesday. Sekar joined the force in October 2014 as constable (general duty) and was posted at the CRPF’s 92nd Battalion in September 2015. He is survived by his mother C Shyamala, wife Jenifer Chritsy, and son John Peter, 2. His father Chellasamy, who was a special sub-inspector of police died during service. His wife and son who were in Srirangam were brought to Sengottai on Tuesday morning. Tenkasi district collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan said the mortal remains of the martyr are expected to be flown from Delhi to the nearest airport on Wednesday morning and taken to Sengottai by road by afternoon. “Due to the curfew, public gathering for the final rites will be restricted,” the collector said. “The stretch from the Sengottai taluk office to his residence and the burial ground is about 2km. We have barricaded the places to avoid crowding and are also working out a plan to help locals pay their tribute without crowding,” SP G Suguna Singh said. Adi Dravida and tribal welfare minister V M Rajalakshmi, the collector and SP are among the nearly 10 government representatives who will participate in the rites to be held with full state honours. On Wednesday the police and local body officials made announcements in the locality to avoid gathering in large numbers during the send-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crpf-martyr-to-be-laid-to-rest-in-tenkasi-today/articleshow/75564542.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Construction on Outer Ring road begins||LUCKNOW: The construction work on the second and third phase of outer ring road resumed on Tuesday after National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and UP Public Works Department (UPPWD) got permission from the district administration. The 12km second phase of the outer ring road between Faizabad road and Sultanpur road is expected to be functional by August this year. According to UPPWD officials, 70% of the work has been completed and only two rail overbridges (RoB) are to be constructed near Barabanki. Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh’s representative Diwakar Tripathi told TOI, “Only 10-15 workers have been deployed for installing girders for the overbridges using cranes. Project managers have been directed to take all necessary precautions and ensure social distancing.” Similarly, NHAI officials have received permission for soil mining for the Sultanpur and Mohanlalganj (phase three). The work is expected to complete by June next year. Being constructed in the five phases, the work on the outer ring road had started in 2015. It is expected to complete in 2021, but got delayed due to several factors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/construction-on-outer-ring-road-begins/articleshow/75565145.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Samudra Setu op to evacuate returnees||Kochi: As the central government has informed the deployment of naval ships to evacuate Indians abroad, Kochi-headquartered Southern Naval Command too has started deploying its ships as part of the Indian Navy’s Operation Samudra Setu (Sea Bridge). According to sources, the SNC ship INS Magar that was already mission-deployed in the sea was re-deployed to Maldives on Monday night. Another ship INS Jalashwa of Eastern Naval Command, which was deployed off Mumbai Coast, was also redeployed to go to Maldives with INS Magar. These ships will return to Kochi within a week after evacuating Indians from Dubai and Maldives. Sources said that INS Shardul of SNC will be re-deployed to Dubai for the evacuation purpose. Sources said that the two ships with Indians from Maldives are scheduled to start to Kochi on May 8. It is a 48 hour voyage from Male to Kochi. A total of 1000 persons are planned to be evacuated during the first trip. The ship from Dubai is scheduled to start to Kochi by the weekend and is expected to reach here in three and a half days. All the passengers will be shifted to quarantine places identified by the state government after health screening by the Port Health Organisation at Cochin Port. The SOP for their reception is yet to be out from the central government. “A total of 1000 persons are planned to be evacuated during the first trip, catering for Covid-related social distancing norms vis-a-vis the carrying capacity and medical facilities available onboard. In view of the unique challenges associated with Covid-19 stringent protocols have also been stipulated. The sail may be rough due to pre-monsoon weather conditions. A few other ships are also said to be deployed soon but the final decision is not out yet,” said a source. Meanwhile, the Indian High Commission in Maldives has started preparing a priority list of the passengers to be evacuated in the naval ships. “Preference would be accorded to already registered cases with the High Commission on compelling grounds such as medical, pregnancy, elderly, death in family, stranded tourists, workers who lost jobs and destitute cases. As of now no cost has been indicated for the travel from Male to Kochi by sea,” said a notice by the High Commission to Indians there. Elaborate measures will be taken at Cochin Port to ensure smooth immigration of the passengers brought in the ships. Sources at Port Health Organisation (PHO) said that separate counters will be set up for customs, health, district administration and immigration officials at the Samudrika hall of the port. Thermal scanners will be installed at the berth in addition to IR Thermometer guns. The state health team will also be joining PHO for health screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/samudra-setu-op-to-evacuate-returnees/articleshow/75562148.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi highlights water crisis through tweets||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has appraised the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) over perennial water crisis in his constituency, especially Nampally and Rajendranagar assembly constituencies, on Tuesday. In a series of tweets put out by the MP, he informed HMWSSB: “In Rajendranagar divisions 1 & 2, there is a two million gallons per day (MGD) shortfall, in division 3, it is a drastic 2.5 MGD.” “What is surprising is that this shortfall is happening at a time when there is no commercial or industrial demand as a result of lockdown. Despite this, the supply is inadequate to meet domestic needs. The domestic demand has also increased as more people are staying at home and temperatures are expected to increase,” the MP said, adding that the supply to these divisions was from Himayatsagar, which is witnessing a deficit. “If water tankers are sent instead of consistent water supply, what is left of social distancing?” Asad questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-highlights-water-crisis-through-tweets/articleshow/75564563.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Despite relaxation, non-essential stores remain shut to ‘avoid risk’||BHOPAL: Confusion prevailed among traders and shopkeepers across the state capital, a day after collector’s order detailing the types of services allowed during the lockdown 3.0. Standalone shops, mainly of the auto repairing and puncture, which had opened on Monday, kept the shutters down on Tuesday despite clarification by the collector in his order that such shops would be allowed to operate during the current lockdown. For example, only milk booths and grocery shops were open along the 7-km stretch between Trilanga and MP Nagar. This despite the fact that the order allows stationery shops, bakeries, electronic stores selling ACs/coolers, opticians to run and provide option of home delivery. Shopkeepers are still wary of the home delivery option. “ACs and coolers are products which people want to see before they buy. If they enquire over the phone, we can tell them the company and model, maybe the colour but it is often not enough to make a choice. There is the issue of price, warranty and there is only so much you can describe over the phone,” said Puneet, owner of an electronics store in Trilanga. He added, “In addition, there is difficulty in finding loading autos these days ... if you do get one, you need a pass for the driver and the person who will install the AC or the cooler. It is too much of a hassle, without the assurance that people will be actually willing to order electronics online.” Puneet said, he had opened his shop on Tuesday but downed the shutters by afternoon as no one turned up. If ACs/coolers are things which people want to buy only after looking at the product minutely, stationery items are too small and often billing is very less for traders to opt for home delivery. Kishan Patidar of Patidar Stationary said, “We have boys, who can deliver orders at home, but I won’t ask them to do it. Why should I expose them to a grave risk for a small amount?” Opticians, on the other hand, point out that making spectacles according to the prescription of an eye specialist, which the district administration has allowed, is not like packing something and handing it over at a person’s home, who books the order. “All the opticians have labs. The glass is cut; you need to have a fitter. People take so much time choosing a frame of their choice. Can I ask the fitter to come as and when there is an order? An optical shop can work only if it is allowed to open”, said Praveen Singh, owner of an optical store at Mandakani Market in Kolar. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore said that e-passes are being made for delivery boys and once it is done and people start booking, home delivery of goods like ACs/coolers would pick up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/despite-relaxation-non-essential-stores-remain-shut-to-avoid-risk/articleshow/75564536.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala hits out at Centre over returning NRIs||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: The Kerala government on Tuesday charged the Centre with reducing by half the priority list of stranded Keralites wishing to return from abroad and ignoring its demand to adhere to basic safety protocols of conducting Covid-19 tests on those boarding flights abroad. The state is to receive 2,250 Keralites from foreign countries in special flights over five days from Thursday. "All returnees must undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine now. They will undergo a PCR test on the seventh day, and will be sent to their houses (for a further seven-day quarantine) or hospitals based on the results," CM Pinarayi Vijayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-hits-out-at-centre-over-returning-nris/articleshow/75565956.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||2,281 guest workers in Madurai register to go home||Madurai: It has been six months since Ajay Shah, 34, a father of four from Mirzapur in Bihar came to Tamil Nadu. He earns his living by putting up toy shops during festivals. After finishing with Thaipoosam in Palani he came to Madurai so that he can earn something from Chithirai festival. “Within a few days after reaching Madurai, lockdown was implemented. Since then I am stuck here without income. The little money I had also was spent on accommodation and food. I do not have money to spend for train ticket. Government should come forward to help me to reach my native,” he said. He is one of the many in the district who has expressed willingness to return home by submitting an application form. Around 100 people are stuck in a private lodge in Town Hall road and are eagerly awaiting to return. Madurai collector T G Vinay said that 2,281 guest workers from Rajasthan, West Bengal, Madhya PRadesh and Odisha have expressed willingness to return. Some of them staying in the lodge have started begging in the streets to get some money and essential items. For the past few days they are seen begging in Nethaji Road, Town Hall Road and nearby streets. A woman from Alwar city in Rajasthan said, “We do not have money or essentials like wheat flour for making roti. We are seeking alms to feed our family members.” Another worker said, “We are begging not because they do not have food and essentials, but to save money for unforeseen situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2281-guest-workers-in-madurai-register-to-go-home/articleshow/75564551.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 in Lucknow: No need to panic, admin allays fears||LUCKNOW: The news of vegetable wholesalers testing positive to coronavirus infection has left many worried as most hawkers and retailers buy from them before selling it in local markets and in residential colonies. Administration and health officials, however, said there is no need to panic as adequate contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients is being done. TimesViewLucknow seems to turning the tide against corona with more recovered patients than under treatment, but we should not drop our guards. Social distancing, masks and hygiene should be practiced more vigorously to contain the outbreak and now allow situation to go out of control as it happened on Monday when people queued for liquor.They also advised people to maintain social distancing while buying vegetables and fruits, see that vendors are wearing mask and wash products thoroughly before use. Maya Singh (66) of Gomtinagar said officials should ensure that safety protocol is followed everywhere.” “I buy vegetables in bulk so that it can last for a week. It reduces frequency of visits to vegetable markets,” said Rinku Sahu of Vrindavan Yojana. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora said, “We are taking all precautions. Residents can also alert us if they find any hawker or retailer not following safety protocol.” In charge of district infectious disease control unit Dr KP Tripathi said, “People should not panic as areas from where positive cases are being reported have been sealed and all their contacts are being tested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-need-to-panic-admin-allays-fears/articleshow/75565159.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||Migrants to enter Karwar border today||Karwar: The state bulletinis gearing to ferry migrant workers from Wednesday, when 10,000 of them would cross the Karnataka border at Majali on the outskirts of Karwar. DC K Harish Kumar said the government has appointed Vinayak Patil, who had served as the SP in the district a year ago, to ensure seamless transport of workers from Goa. The process, which was delayed by a day owing to logistical issues, is aimed at bringing in workers in a staggered manner. “They will have to undergo a medical check-up before entering the state. From there, they would be taken to the nearest hospital for a thorough test, after which they will be sent to different parts of Karnataka,” the DC said, adding only those who have taken permission from the government by filling the form on Arogya Setu app will allowed to come to Karnataka. Karwar assistant commissioner M Priyanga and CMC executive engineer R P Naik will coordinate the process. Those from south Karnataka will come to the Karwar border, and those from north Karnataka will go to the Belagavi border. KSRTC has arranged 300 buses to ferry the workers to different districts, sources said. Buses from Karwar, Ankola, Kumta and Sirsi bus depots will ferry the workers, a KSRTC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/migrants-to-enter-karwar-border-today/articleshow/75562139.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||Branch of 132-year-old IRIMEE institute to open in Lucknow||Agra: Amid rumors that the Indian Railways is planning to relocate the 132-year-old Indian Railways Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE) from Jamalpur in Bihar to the outskirts of Lucknow, the director of the institute announced that only a new branch of the iconic institute will be opened in the state capital as part of an effort to build a centralised institute to train railway officers on probation.According to the Railways, Rs 74.5 crore has already been sanctioned for the project, construction for which is expected to start after the lockdown. However, some railway officials raised objection to the project, claiming Railways is on a drive to cut expenditure, as Railways’ operating ratio is currently a high Rs 98.41 for every Rs 100 earned. The Rail Budget for 2020 stated that a year ago, the operating ratio was 98.30 and has been deteriorating rapidly since 2015-16, when it was 90.5%.Speaking to TOI, S K Yagnik, director of IRIMEE, Jamalpur, said, “The proposal for the new branch was mooted in 2014, as was the sanctioning of funds, both before I became director. Shutting down the Jamalpur institute is mere speculation. It will continue to work in coming years, we are just expanding to Lucknow, as the location has more connectivity and there is already another railway institute —Indian Railways Institute of Transport Management (IRITM).”According to letters exchanged between L C Trivedi, general manager of North Eastern Railway (NER) and S K Yagnik of IRIMEE, the spot for the new IRIMEE branch will be located on a 92,660 sqm plot at Mohibullapur, along Sitapur road on the outskirts of Lucknow. The campus will be larger than the Jamalpur one, which is spread across 86,240 sqm.Lokesh Singh, who was the senior divisional mechanical engineer of NER in 2014, and had been given the task of preparing a proposal for site selection, said, “Since Jamalpur was in a remote area with poor connectivity, we decided to look for a better place for the institute, where there was larger scope for probationary officers to learn and be active. Also, Uttar Pradesh has three railway zones — Northern, North Central and North Eastern railways — which will benefit from the location.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/branch-of-132-year-old-irimee-institute-to-open-in-lucknow/articleshow/75563646.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 6, 2020||Goa||State to follow Hampi model for monument committee||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday chaired the preliminary meeting for the setting up of a coordination committee to look after protected monuments in the state. It was decided to study the rules and regulations that were followed for the setting up of a coordination committee for Hampi. “I have given the chief secretary the authority to study their rules and prepare a basic draft. All world heritage monuments need to be preserved. Presently there is something lacking. This committee is necessary. The chief secretary will place the draft at the next meeting after two months,” Sawant said. For the moment, ASI will expedite the roof repair work that is presently on, he added. The meeting was attended by representatives from the ASI, Church, deputy chief minister and minister for archaeology, St Andre MLA and others. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar said, that the formation of a committee will help resolve many pending problems and repairs over the years. “They should permit specialists from outside ASI to carry out the work otherwise the Centre must increase the fund.” The state archaeology department has presently tendered Rs 48 lakh worth works on the chapel of St Francis Xavier, he added. Rector of the Basilica Fr Patricio Fernandes said the formation of a committee with representatives from the state, centre, ASI and the Church will resolve all pending issues. “The CM took a quick decision to resolve the issue. Otherwise issues were not being resolved and works just remained pending,” he said. Fernandes stressed the importance of anti termite treatment required in the Basilica. “The work has to be carried out with responsibility. Once specialists are brought in the work will last for many years,” he said. The ASI representatives assured that the work on the roof of the Basilica will be completed by May 10 and said its chemical branch in Aurangabad would conduct the anti termite treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-follow-hampi-model-for-monument-committee/articleshow/75565169.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Ministers justify move to reopen Tasmac outlets||MADURAI: Ministers, who participated in various events in the southern districts on Tuesday, justified the government move to open Tasmac outlets. Addressing media at Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district on Tuesday, minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji said that the decision to open Tasmac outlets in the state was taken after considering the prevailing situation. He said that even when liquor shops were opened in other states including Delhi and Karnataka five days ago, the government did not permit liquor shops to function in the state. “However, since liquor shops are functioning in Karnataka, a few people residing in the border areas are travelling there. This would pave way for bringing illegal liquor trade into the state,” he said. This is one major reason behind the government’s decision to open Tasmac outlets. Minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju who participated at a function to distribute welfare measures in Madurai Corporation, said the decision to open Tasmac shops was not taken wholeheartedly. It was done considering the welfare of the state’s economy and also to prevent alcoholics from crossing over to other states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ministers-justify-move-to-reopen-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75564559.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||Rats nibble woman cancer patient’s toe at Agra government hospital||Agra: A 40-year-old cancer patient, who was rushed to Agra’s SN Medical College under another spell of severe pain, allegedly spent four “agonizing” days at the government hospital with no doctor to attend her. On Monday morning, when Sakshi Khandelwal’s husband pulled her blanket, he found a pool of blood near her left foot. “Parts of her toe was missing. She couldn’t feel it because she was already under so much constant pain,” said the husband, Indra Khandelwal.“Her sample was collected for testing of Covid-19. The report came negative. But, even after repeated requests, no doctor came to attend my wife. No radiotherapy was given to her. After four days of admission, staffers just provided oxygen support to my wife when she was having difficulty in breathing.”“On Monday morning, when I removed her blanket, I was shocked to see her badly injured foot and blood was flowing on the bed. Rats had bitten her toe. I screamed but no one came for help. Even no bandage was provided. I had to leave my wife who was crying in pain to buy an ointment and bandage from outside,” Indra said, who is a jeweller.A video showing bleeding foot of the woman, and her husband’s desperate calls for help went viral on Tuesday afternoon.Later, Sakshi, in spite of her poor health, was discharged, with her husband alleging that it was done forcibly. They are residents of Agra’s Lohamandi area.Sakshi was diagnosed with cancer in June 2019. She was getting treatment from a cancer specialist in New Agra area. But, due to lockdown, the hospital was shut.On April 28, when her health deteriorated, the family members tried several private hospitals, but in vain. They took her to SN Medical College later.Indra alleged that the staffers at the emergency ward forcefully discharged his wife on Tuesday afternoon. When contacted, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I have seen the video of the patient and her husband. I am inquiring about it from the SNMC administration. Suitable action will be taken. The patient will be provided required treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rats-nibble-woman-cancer-patients-toe-at-agra-government-hospital/articleshow/75563652.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||38 held for illegal fishing off Karwar||Karwar: The Indian Coast Guard took into custody 38 fishermen for their alleged involvement in illegal fishing off Karwar in the early hours of Tuesday. It also seized two purse seine boats which were fitted with high capacity generators and bright electric bulbs to attract fish. Light fishing is banned as it led to the extinction of many fish species in the west coast. In this type of fishing, the fish get attracted to the light fitted to boats and are caught using heavy nets. Of the 39 fishermen, one is from Karwar and four from Ankola. The rest are from other state, said fisheries department officials. They were later handed over to the Coastal Security Police. The seized boats -- Sea Rose and Concip – belong to Betul in Goa. The Coast Guard was on high alert after complaint by local fishermen that boats from outside the state were enter the waters of Karnataka to carry out illegal fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/38-held-for-illegal-fishing-off-karwar/articleshow/75560726.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Smart City work to start in zones of no containment||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation will resume Smart City projects, which were stalled due to Covid-19 lockdown, in non-containment zones on Wednesday. However, it will take some time before the work catches pace. Contractors are likely to face headwind due to labour unavailability and difficulty in transportation of materials required for construction. City engineer S Arasu told TOI that the work will resume with the available men and material at the site and within the district. A meeting was chaired by Arasu at Anna Maaligai with the participation of contractors of smart city projects a few days ago. Officials said that contractors were positive and assured to resume work at any given time. “Only basic work will begin. It has been 45 days since the machineries were last used. They need to be checked for their condition before starting operation,” an official said. The official said that shortage of workforce will also be an issue as many of the guest workers staying at construction sites are planning to return to their native. Around 270 workers are there at three sites including Periyar bus terminal and multi-level car parking. They are being taken good care of by providing food and medicine. “The workers may rethink their decision of going back to their native once work starts,” he added. Only a few projects like smart road and drinking water project in Area Based Development (ABD) will get affected as West Veli Street and Maapalayam have been declared as containment zones. No other project will get stalled due to lockdown, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/smart-city-work-to-start-in-zones-of-no-containment/articleshow/75564595.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Two deaths take Bhopal’s coronavirus toll to 18||BHOPAL: Eight people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Tuesday, as per the health bulletin, taking city’s corona count to 571. Two deaths were also recorded in Bhopal on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll to 18. As of now, 288 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Two Covid patients — a 94-year-old patient under treatment in Hamidia hospital and a 64-year-old cancer patient died here on Tuesday. The 94-year-man was a resident of Jehangirabad area. Meanwhile, in Gandhi Medical College (GMC) 27-year-old doctor posted in department of medicine tested positive for Covid-19. After the doctor tested positive, 16 of his associates were identified as close contacts. According to GMC administration, the close contacts would be sent into quarantine. Other positive cases were reported from Jehangirahbad, Mangalwara and Islampura. AIIMS Bhopal team to visit Ujjain to assist in fight against Covid: On the directives of union health minister, Dr Harsh Vardhan AIIMS Bhopal would form a special team to assist and review the status of preparedness and response in the state and specially Ujjain district, according to a press release, here on Tuesday. During the discussion, it wsas decided that a team of experts’ clinicians and hospital administrators from AIIMS Bhopal will visit the district hospital Ujjain to assist the district health administration for Covid- 19 preparedness amid the recent developments. The team will assess the availability of infrastructure, manpower rationalisation and suggest mechanism to strengthen the Covid-19 response. The team of expert will submit a report to the state officials to improve the Covid-19 preparedness and response in the region of Ujjain district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-deaths-take-bhopals-coronavirus-toll-to-18/articleshow/75564570.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Delhi||New schools of thought emerge for education in a post-pandemic era||NEW DELHI: During an online session Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, was asked when classes would resume. Joshi wished she could answer the question. Other school principals too have faced similar questions. They have no concrete responses to these queries, but of one thing they are sure: institutions will not be the same once they reopen after the Covid lockdown. For one, student life is the antithesis of social distancing, so in the post-pandemic era, the schools may have to implement steps like classes on rotation basis, increased online lessons, cancellation of activities like annual functions and daily sanitisation of buildings and transport. “Until there is a remedy for the coronavirus infection, schools no doubt will have to practise social distancing. The whole idea of a school as a brick-and-mortar structure will change,” confirmed Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road. “This will require extensive and exhaustive changes in procedures and protocols.” Wattal surmised that students could be required to come in rotation, one group for three days of a week, another for the remaining days. There will also be a blend of learning from home, classroom and online. With most city schools having around 3,000 students on the rolls, and 45-50 children per classroom, the staggered attendance seems most viable to most educationists. Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group of Schools, added, “Children coming to school will mean new protocols in place. The first such protocol will be social distancing. So schools have to work out how to run with X number of students while following social distancing. This can only be possible if fewer students come to school and the rest stay at home. But the protocols have to ensure that children at home learn in tandem with those in the classroom.” The other mechanism that most school heads are agreed on in the post-pandemic months is the cancellation or scaling down of large gatherings. “We have to be extra cautious. We must avoid huge gatherings like parent-teacher meetings, assemblies, sports day and the annual function. It is going to be tough, but we have to design activities in a manner that minimises crowding,” noted Suman Kumar, principal, Bluebells School International. Alongside, however, there is concern that distancing will have a negative psychological effect on the students. This might lead to increased hiring of nurses and counsellors in schools. Wattal believes that as the institution transform to cope with the new realities, “we have to be careful about student issues such as rage, bullying, behavioural problems, alienation and irritability among students”. Looming over such concerns is also the more demanding imperative of completing the syllabus and academic programmes. “We will have to create a balance and ensure that children do not feel pressured,” suggested Joshi. “Meeting the yearly syllabus till Class VIII is not an issue. Online learning will help and we might have to continue with it.” She added, “The institution heads are waiting for a little clarity in the situation before drafting new school policies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-schools-of-thought-emerge-for-education-in-a-post-pandemic-era/articleshow/75586965.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Maya offers to pay migrants’ fare||Lucknow: BSP chief Mayawati attacked the BJP governments and offered to pitch in for the fares. “It is extremely unfortunate that the central and state governments are taking money from migrant workers to send them home on trains and buses,” she tweeted. If the states refuse to pay for the fares, Mayawati said BSP will pitch in for the migrants. “BSP will take help from its people and will contribute towards ensuring that the workers are sent home,” she said. On Monday, UP’s additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi had said that labourers were paying for their own train tickets but their travel from their point of arrival in the state to their homes was free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-offers-to-pay-migrants-fare/articleshow/75565175.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||200 barrels of solvent gutted in godown fire||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at a chemical storage godown in Medchal industrial area in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to officials, around 250 barrels of solvent were kept in an open space where they suddenly went off. “The cause of the fire is still not known. Some 200 barrels were destroyed...,” said station fire officer Suresh Reddy. As many as five fire tenders and 26 firefighters were pressed into action at Pavan Enterprises and it took over five hours to douse the fire. Property loss is estimated at Rs 20 lakh. Another minor fire in a three-storey complex in Koti was also reported. The fire at Mithila Complex in Akbar Bagh Road, according to officials, was triggered by a short-circuit in a garment storage room. One fire tender was deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200-barrels-of-solvent-gutted-in-godown-fire/articleshow/75564618.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||No exemption for footwear shops leaves prospective buyers in a spot of bother||MADURAI: When the lockdown measures are gradually eased on May 6, something that the people of Madurai have been awaiting is the footwear shops to lift the shutters. Sadly, it does not figure on the list of permitted shops by the district administration. Radha,70, of Anna Nagar was found walking without slippers to the ration shop a few days ago. Due to unbearable heat in the afternoon, she was found limping and standing in shaded places she could find, before moving on. “My slipper broke a few days ago, and I was told that the shops were closed. I could not get a new pair,” she said. Like Radha, an elderly lady in Palace road in the city, was found literally running towards the Mahal to avoid her feet from getting burnt. “My slipper broke in March. I have not been able to find the shoemaker, who is usually found near the Mahal who I have been looking for,” she said. Sadly, footwear shops are not classified as “essential commodities”. Though the lockdown has ensured that people should stay indoors, they have to go out to buy essentials, said K Shanmugam of Narimedu who has been unable to buy footwear for his father. Executive director of SOCO Trust, S Selva Gomathy said that footwear is very important. “All the photographs show many migrant workers and children walking without slippers. The government should ensure that ordinary slippers are available at least in small grocery shops,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-exemption-for-footwear-shops-leaves-prospective-buyers-in-a-spot-of-bother/articleshow/75564583.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||No relaxations in Madurai’s ‘red zone’||MADURAI: Madurai continues to remain a “red zone’’ with 91 Covid-19 cases and 25 containment zones, which would see further tightening of lockdown measures, even as they are eased in a phased manner from Wednesday and many activities would resume in other parts of the city as well as rural limits of the district. District collector Dr T G Vinay told reporters on Tuesday in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan and police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham that two of the 13 containment zones in the city, Narimedu and P & T Nagar and two in the rural limits, Kariapatti and Kallampatti, had completed their 28-day containment period and have been ‘released’. As of now there were 46 active cases in the isolation ward at Government Rajaji Hospital. The screening for Covid-19 was more than the state average in Madurai and so far 7,200 people had been tested. They were testing primary, secondary and low risk contacts of positive cases apart from screening ILI and SARI cases. Thirteen mobile medical units have been used to screen expectant mothers. As many as 447 antenatal mothers had been screened five days before their delivery date for the disease in the district so far. High risk mothers were screened 10 days in advance. Nine people had come to Madurai from Koyembedu including two with dual entry and seven of them kept in home quarantine. In all, 35 people who had travelled from Chennai and nearby places to Madurai in recent times had been confined to quarantine facilities. Thirteen Tablighi preachers from Hyderabad who arrived on Monday evening were also being screened. The collector said they had been able to trace the contacts of all 91 Covid-19 positive cases in Madurai. The contact tracing team, including revenue, health and police officials, had been able to trace the contacts of all those who tested positive in the district. Police commissioner Davidson Devasirvatham said that police personnel would be deployed widely from Wednesday to monitor the movement of people when the lockdown is eased. ``People going for work, or necessitated movements, will not be stopped for checking passes, but if people are found to be moving unnecessarily, like visiting relatives, or in doubles or triples, or more than the number permitted in vehicles action would be initiated,’’ he said. Only one person would be permitted on two wheelers and two in cars. He said Tasmac shops would also be monitored by two or three police personnel when they open on Thursday. While standalone shops did not need e-passes for their employees or shops, all IT and IT-related businesses had to obtain a one-time pass for the office as well as staff to start functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-relaxations-in-madurais-red-zone/articleshow/75564573.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Agra||48 Hathras cops quarantined on return from Agra||AGRA: At least 48 police personnel from Hathras, who returned from Agra after completing their duty, were quarantined on Tuesday for 14 days as a precautionary measure. Confirming this, superintendent of police, Hathras, Gaurav Banswal, said, "Their samples will be taken for testing. The quarantine procedure will be followed with everyone who returns to Hathras from outside." He said he had visited the quarantine centre earlier to check the facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/48-hathras-cops-quarantined-on-return-from-agra/articleshow/75563680.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: At Raj Bhavan, video calls, aarogya setu must for staff||BHOPAL: Even as many are taking advantage of the relaxations in corona lockdown 3.0, the Governor House in Madhya Pradesh is going the extra mile and taking the strictest precautions. Officers and employees can only interact with Governor Lalji Tandon through video conferencing. This practice is being followed even if officers are present in the Governor House and sitting in adjoining rooms. A trial of the new arrangement was held on Monday, wherein Tandon interacted with officials and employees through a video conference. Officials said the new arrangement would not only ensure social distancing, but would also give access to the Governor to interact with his staff with a click of the mouse. Like other government departments, only 30% are being called at the Governor’s office while the rest of them work from home. The senior officials, however, ensure 100% attendance, as per the Centre’s guidelines. Another important decision taken in Governor house was if a person doesn’t have Aarogya Setu App on his mobile phone, he/she would not be allowed to enter the premises. The formal orders in this regard would be issued in a day or two. In the video conference on Monday, the Governor also interacted with officials and employees working from their homes and asked them to download the app. Governor said safety measures laid down by government must be followed by everyone to win the war against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-raj-bhavan-video-calls-aarogya-setu-must-for-staff/articleshow/75564591.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Borewell threat looms over Kesarval spring||Panaji: With its gushing flow over the rocks greatly reduced, Kesarval spring, once a popular picnic spot, has turned into a deserted place. Villagers are now worried a lot about a borewell which was dug in its vicinity on Sunday. Quelossim biodiversity management committee (QBMC) has filed a complaint with the panchayat, the deputy collector at Mormugao and other authorities, alleging that a borewell, close to the spring will decrease its flow and impact ground water. “The spring gets water from the surrounding areas which are at a higher level. But the borewell drawing water near the spring will surely affect its recharge lower down,” Lopinho Xavier, chairman of QBMC said. After the complaint, sarpanch, Maria D’Souza and deputy sarpanch, Sebastiao Serrao visited the site and questioned the supervisor, who said the owner had obtained an approval from water resources department (WRD). But the sarpanch pointed out that the owner has not yet obtained permission from the panchayat authorities. Later, Xavier wrote to the panchayat, alleging that despite the sarpanch’s verbal order to stop the work, drilling to install pipes for the bore well continued even after the inspection. The department approval was on condition that the owner obtain permission from the panchayat, a source said. During summer and other months, the spring with its clear waters, drew large crowds at the scenic spot, barely 300 metres east off the national highway 66. “The depletion of ground water table will affect the biodiversity of the surrounding areas, paddy fields and arecanut farm,” Xavier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/borewell-threat-looms-over-kesarval-spring/articleshow/75565191.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 6, 2020||Madurai||16 new cases in south Tamil Nadu, 7 from Dindigul||MADURAI: The southern districts saw 16 new cases on Tuesday with many of them having imported the disease into their regions after a recent travel to Chennai, especially Koyembedu market. Dindigul saw seven cases taking the district’s total to 98. The previous 80 cases were all Tablighi members and their contacts who have been discharged. The new cases have been admitted to Karur Government Hospital’s isolation facility. Out of the 17 new cases, fifteen were workers and farmers from Athoor, Battalagundu and Oddanchathiram who had transported their produce to the Koyembedu market. The administration has created a temporary quarantine facility at Thangamapatti checkpost, the entrance to the district from Chennai, and all people crossing it have to undergo a swab test and wait for three days before being allowed to go home. The two other cases were women, a female armed reserve constable from Sithaiyankottai working in Chennai and a house surgeon. Theni district administration has stepped up vigil on its borders after five new cases — two women aged 25 and 30 and three males aged 78, 53 and 30 all who travelled to Chennai — were confirmed. A 24-year-old pregnant woman tested positive in Tirunelveli district after her swab samples were sent for testing from Melapalayalam urban PHC, which falls under a containment zone. The district had not reported a single case since April 23. Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish observed that health officials are testing around 250-300 people every day. A 20-year-old man from Sellur in Madurai city, a containment zone, tested positive on Tuesday, taking the district total to 91.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-new-cases-in-south-tn-7-from-dindigul/articleshow/75564603.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Low birthweight twins discharged||Kochi: Four-and-a-half month old twins who had low weight at birth were discharged from a city hospital on Thursday. Baby Zoya had a birthweight of 400g and her younger twin sister weighed 350g. The babies while being discharged from Lourdes hospital weighed 2kg and 1.5kg respectively. Low birthweight is a term used to describe babies who are born weighing less than 2,500g. Babies weighing less than 1,500g at birth are considered very low birth weight. Low birth weight is most often caused by premature birth. The lowest birthweight recorded for a surviving infant is 245g, in the case of a baby in USA, who was delivered by emergency caesarean section in December 2018. The twins were born to Thanseem and his wife Zuwaina in the sixth month of pregnancy. Zuwaina had to be admitted with severe life-threatening pregnancy-induced hypertension. Due to the anticipated complications like growth retardation and reduced blood flow to the fetuses, the babies were taken out through caesarean section under the supervision of gynaecologist Dr Divya Jose on December 12, 2019. They were put in neonatology department of the hospital. “In view of several risk factors such as multiple pregnancy, growth retardation and extreme prematurity, taking care of these twins were not an easy task. Combating the immature lung, brain, heart and gut were some of the hurdles faced by the doctors,” said Dr Rojo Joy, neonatologist at the hospital. “Both babies had severe respiratory distress and was intubated, ventilated and admitted into NICU. Babies were on ventilator for 40 days till they could breathe on their own,” added Dr Joy. Interventions for the eye disease related to their prematurity was done by ophthalmologists from Giridhar Eye Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/low-birthweight-twins-discharged/articleshow/75551125.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Buses to ply in green zones in UP from today||Lucknow: UPSRTC buses will ply in green zone districts in UP from Wednesday. “As of now, only ordinary buses will ply,” said Uttar Pradesh State Road TRansport Corporation MD Raj Shekhar. Buses will ply on all routes in the green zone districts. They will also move between two green zone districts. Similarly, buses would be available from green zone districts to border districts which are in green zone. Passengers will have to cover their faces with masks, handkerchief or ‘gamchha’ whichever is available with them. Passengers will have to sanitize their hands before boarding the bus. Every bus would have a 500ml hand sanitizer bottle. Driver and conductor will use masks and conductors will wear gloves as well. In case of change in the zone category of the district, operation would be planned in consultation with administration. Every bus would be sanitised before every trip while bus stations would be sanitised twice a day. Every depot would have a Covid task force in place. Soaps and santizers will be placed at bus stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/buses-to-ply-in-green-zones-in-up-from-today/articleshow/75565196.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government may revise decision on private lab tests||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: For many patients, the circular issued by Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director (health), on May 2 came as a shocker. Dr Vaghela had mentioned that the five labs – four in Ahmedabad and one in Surat – will not be collecting and processing any nasal or throat swabs for Covid-19 tests without permission from health department or chief district health officer (CDHO). Taking objection to the decision that could impact several medical procedures across Gujarat, various medical associations approached the state department. The doctors argued that precautionary test is a must for the planned surgeries to prevent any infection in the medical staff and the red tape will only delay the medical procedures. Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on May 4 wrote to Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), for immediate withdrawal of the notification. The letter mentioned, ‘As a part of the clinical protocol established worldwide, it is necessary to do RT-PCR tests on the patients before surgery is done... If it is not done and later the patient tests positive or develops symptoms of Covid-19, the patient will have adverse outcome first, apart from infecting the team of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who have treated the patient,’ mentioned the letter. The association argued that the private healthcare will collapse as they will not be able to treat many patients due to delay. The state health department officials refused to divulge in the reason behind the circular. When contacted, Ravi said that the decision was taken by the high-power committee of Government of Gujarat. “However, after the feedback of issues faced by the private hospitals for non-Covid-19 patients treatment, the decision on precautionary test may be revised after discussion in the committee,” she said. Dr Mahendra Narwariya, city-based bariatric surgeon, said that the decision should be revoked in the favour of the patients awaiting treatment. A spokesperson of Apollo Hospital said that it is important that the interest of the patients is also taken into consideration while formulating the guidelines. The process of the approval for tests shall be objective and shall be expedited, mentioned the statement. A spokesperson of Apollo Hospital said that it is important that the interest of the patients is also taken into consideration while formulating the guidelines. The process of the approval for tests shall be objective and shall be expedited, mentioned the statement. The pre-surgery Covid-19 test is necessary not only for the patient’s safety but also for the treating doctors and nursing staff. Stopping the private labs from carrying out Covid-19 test without government permission will delay medical procedures. We have already made a representation to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-may-revise-decision-on-pvt-lab-tests/articleshow/75564645.cms||Kapil Dave
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Final year students worried about future as lockdown extends||MADURAI: With the exams and results set to be delayed, final year students of various courses across all colleges in the district are anxious about their future since uncertainties loom over job vacancies and admissions for higher studies. “This year exams and results are both invariably delayed. Further, amid this uncertainty, we are unable to focus properly on studies as well,” said K Chakravarthi, a final year BSc student. C Priya, a final year UG Visual Communication student said, “By this time, I was supposed to be trying to get an internship to work with a studio utilizing the break after exams. Job was going to be my priority but now considering less job opportunities, I am also open to pursuing masters.” Students who wanted to go for higher studies in premier institutes across the country and abroad are also finding it difficult to stick to their plans. “The problem is that considering the situation parents and students are both uncertain about how it would be to travel to another state or country. There will always be this fear even when exams are over,” said an assistant professor at an arts college. He added that career counselling is hence much-needed for students once exams are over. Several engineering students wanting to study masters abroad are also equally in distress as they are set to begin their course by September but their visas are getting cancelled. Joining jobs after getting placed also remains uncertain, said engineering students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/final-year-students-worried-about-future-as-lockdown-extends/articleshow/75564634.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||State excise department issues notification for liquor shops||KOLKATA: The state excise department on Monday finally came out with a formal notification about opening of liquor off-shops throughout the state, except in containment zones in the afternoon. Off-shops in non-containment zones in districts and in Kolkata, though, had been preparing to open from the early hours of Monday, but it had to hold back shutters till afternoon for the order. Only 40% of liquor shops in the city — out of the total 50-55 outside containment zones — were finally opened after 3pm, following the order. A leading retailer said that the remaining would open on Tuesday. The order issued by excise commissioner has also allowed home delivery of liquor in all the zones through telephone or app to minimize footfall at shops. It has also ordered retailers not to sell more than two bottles. Besides, excise has made mask mandatory for buyers. “Sale of liquor will not be permitted to any customer not wearing mask,” the order says. The liquor shops would remain open between noon and 7pm across all zones. Excise department has also asked retailers to deploy volunteers for maintaining the queues of customers and also directed off-shops to display the new MRPs of different brands. Incidentally, excise had imposed additional 30% sales tax on liquor from April 9 following outbreak of Covid 19. A retailer in central Kolkata pointed out that although initially, they had been asked to open shops at noon, on Monday excise department asked them to wait for a formal notification, following law-and-order issues outside some off shops. Out of 50-55 off-shops in Kolkata, majority are in central and south Kolkata and around five of them are in North Kolkata. A retailer from south said that it was facing a huge manpower of at his shops. “Excise is advising us to keep volunteers, but how do we get people. Most of our employees are from districts. It is impossible for them to get here. Even if we could manage to get them in the city, we would have to provide accommodation for them till public transport is in place. This is going to be a big challenge for us,” he added. Meanwhile, all Bevco warehouses resumed operation on Monday. West Bengal has 22 Bevco warehouses and all of them were opened on Monday. Incidentally, there are 2,500 off-shops in the state. Incidentally, few state governments allowed liquor shops to open from Monday. These include Karnataka, Assam, Maharashtra and Meghalaya. Some would do it on Tuesday. West Bengal is a market of 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of IMFL that include whisky, rum, vodka etc and 8 million (80 lakh) cases of beer annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/udit-liquor-policy-0405/articleshow/75543629.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Coimbatore woman, kids stranded in Madurai after hubby’s death sent home||MADURAI: The district administration has come to the rescue of a 27-year-old woman and her three children from Coimbatore, who were stranded in Madurai for the past one month. The woman and her kids have been sent to Coimbatore with the help of Red Cross, Madurai. The woman, Anjali Devi from Vagarayampalayam was married to Muneeswaran, who was running a welding workshop. On April 1, Muneeswaran died of a heart attack. She brought his body to Kadupatti, his native place near Sholavandan. After conducting the final rites, she stayed back in her sister-in-law’s house. As the family was poor and having spent the little money she had, Devi was desperate to return to her native. Some autorickshaw drivers, who came to know about her predicament took her to the Madurai district collector’s office. Based on instructions from the collector T G Vinay, the Madurai chapter of Red Cross pitched in to help her. On behalf of the district administration, three months’ essentials were provided to her. An emergency pass was also provided to her on Monday, so that she can reach Vagarayampalayam. Secretary of Madurai Red Cross M Gopalakrishnan said that they tried to convince her to stay back in Madurai and promised all necessary help. However, she was desperate to reach her native place and stay with her elder brother. So, they decided to send her back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/coimbatore-woman-kids-stranded-in-madurai-after-hubbys-death-sent-home/articleshow/75564626.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||Mobile unit manufacturers allowed to start production||LUCKNOW: In a major relief to mobile phone manufacturers, the government has issued permission to them to start operations as soon as they meet the prescribed conditions. Principal secretary, industry, Alok Kumar on Tuesday said that manufactures of mobile phones and allied equipment have been included in the ‘hardware production for IT’ category. Units coming under this category have already been allowed to function. “Most of mobile manufacturing units are located in NCR areas of Noida and Greater Noida. They were requesting the government to allow them to start production,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, chief secretary RK Tiwari finalised the protocol for units to start operations. In an order issued by him on Tuesday, the units falling under green and orange zones do not need to apply for any special permission or NOCs. “Owners of units coming under these zones only need to give a declaration to district magistrates concerned that they are following the protocol prescribed for operating these units during the lockdown,” the order stated. For those in the red zones, once the declaration is received by district officials of the industry and MSME departments, they will make a list of such units and forward it to the DM. The DM will have to take action on this 'without any delay'. The process has to be completed within three days. Once permission is given, workers will not require any additional pass to commute to work. An identification card issued by the organisation will suffice. In the evening, industries minister Satish Mahana and MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh held a meeting with department officials to review the preparedness of industries to restart work. Singh said that while monitoring should be done of all units to ensure that they are following the standard operating procedure, special monitoring is a must in Kanpur, Meerut, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad and other industrial cities. The ministers added that passes should be arranged for workers so that they have no issues while travelling to their place of work. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that in order to avoid crowding in mandis, a time table should be prepared to allow different activities. “Social distancing, sanitation and compulsory use of face cover and masks should be followed in mandis,” the CM said and added that migrant labourers and workers should be linked to milk committees to make them financially self-dependent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mobile-unit-manufacturers-allowed-to-start-production/articleshow/75565209.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Strict protocols in place for expectant mothers: GRH||MADURAI: With as many as four antenatal mothers, of which three have already given birth, and one postnatal mother testing Covid-19 positive, health officials and doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) said they have ensured strict protocols in place for care of expectant mothers. “As per guidelines issued, all antenatal mothers across the district are being tested for Covid-19, particularly one week before the due date. If a woman tests positive, she is immediately referred to GRH,” said dean Dr J Sangumani. She said a separate theatre has been set up at the isolation ward to handle deliveries for Covid-19 patients handled by doctors in fully suited personal protective equipment (PPEs). A total of 1,307 deliveries were done at GRH in April, of which three were Covid-19 positive. Notably, all three mothers gave birth through C-section. However, GRH gynaecologists said the decision to carry out C-section would purely be based on complications and not the patient’s Covid-19 status. “We had reasons to carry out C-section deliveries for all three cases. A new mother from Samayanallur PHC was admitted on April 30 after testing positive for Covid-19 shortly after giving birth. This woman had a natural childbirth,” explained Dr N Sumathi, head of department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at GRH. Covid-19 testing is done for newborn babies after least 24 hours after delivery. Only after two tests, the results are confirmed. So far, all newborns of Covid-19 patients have tested negative for Covid-19. “If the new born baby tests negative, we discharge the baby and hand over to the patient’s attenders,” said Dr Sumathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/strict-protocols-in-place-for-expectant-mothers-grh/articleshow/75564641.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: For asthma patients, Covid-19 increases risk, calls for care||MADURAI: With Covid-19 pandemic in limelight, for World Asthma Day, observed on May 5 every year, there is a need for more awareness and prevention of asthma. According to studies, in India, around 18 million cases of asthma are reported every year. Asthma is a condition in which a person’s airways become inflamed, narrow and swollen and produce extra mucus, which makes it difficult to breathe. Asthma can be minor or in some cases, it may lead to a life-threatening attack. “Nearly half the outpatients that pulmonologists see are generally asthma patients. Asthma may cause difficulty in breathing, chest pain, cough and wheezing. The condition is primarily episodic and mainly is triggered by exposure to allergens like dust, smoke, pollen or certain kind of chemicals,” said Dr P Prem Ananth, a consultant interventional pulmonologist. According to doctors, asthma cases have declined amid lockdown because of less exposure to allergens. “Generally cases are less in summers and now with lockdown in place, pollution is less. People are naturally not exposed to as much dust or smoke from traffic by not going outdoors,” added Dr. Ananth. Most asthma patients also tend to have family history of asthma or allergies of some kind, he added. “A major difference in symptoms between asthma and Covid-19 is fever and body pain. Asthma patients need to be extra careful about Covid-19 as any co-morbid illness means an increased risk,” explained Dr Ananth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/for-asthma-patients-covid-19-increases-risk-calls-for-care/articleshow/75564660.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Shops owned by Muslims to remain closed till Eid||Mangaluru: Textile and readymade garment shops, as well as footwear and fancy stores run by Muslims in the busy Hampankatta and other parts of Mangaluru city will remain closed even after the lockdown, which has been extended till May 17. KTA Youth Forum, an organisation of Muslim merchants, has decided to close their shops until Eid-ul-Fitr, which is expected to be celebrated on May 25. The move is aimed at discouraging Muslims from indulging in Ramzan shopping, which may cause crowding and lead to the spread of Covid-19. Mousheer Ahmed Samanige, president of KTA Youth Forum, said that many Muslim merchants across Dakshina Kannada have decided not to open their shops till the end of Ramzan. “Textile shops, fancy stores and footwear shops run by Muslims in the area, have agreed not to open their shops until Eid. Meanwhile, shops belonging to members of other communities too have agreed to cooperate with us, by not opening their shops,” Mousheer said. He added that the forum will help merchants who have been suffering losses due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, to discourage Eid shopping, hundreds of Muslims have been campaigning with the hashtag #SayNoToEidShopping on Twitter. Many people from Dakshina Kannada too have tweeted against splurging on Eid shopping when the whole world is suffering due to Covid-19. “Let’s wear best clothes instead of new clothes. Say no to Eid shopping this year instead feed the needy one’s. Pay someone’s school fees, pay someone’s rent or else don’t take rent (if you r owner), help someone to restart business (sic),” tweeted Mangaluru resident Shariq Shaikh. Muslim leaders in Dakshina Kannada have also discouraging members of the community from carrying out Ramzan shopping and urged the district administration to extend the lockdown to prevent crowding. Qazi P M Ibrahim Musliyar said the lockdown should be extended till the end of Ramzan. Musliyar said the community is ready to celebrate the festival in a simple manner, without shopping. Many leaders of the community and organisations have requested people to distribute food as zakat, instead of spending money on shopping. M-Friends Charitable Trust president Mahammed Haneef said Muslims should help the poor this Ramzan season. “All 55 active workers of the trust have decided to say not to Ramzan shopping this year. We have taken a pledge, that instead of spending money on shopping, we will help poor patients,” he said. ‘Donate for dialysis unit’ Ullal Sayyid Madani Darga committee has called upon people to desist from Ramzan shopping and instead donate money for setting up a dialysis centre at the PHC in Ullal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shops-owned-by-muslims-to-remain-closed-till-eid/articleshow/75562248.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Chennai||Lifting the lockdown: What it means for Tamil Nadu||With new clusters adding more than 2,000 cases in one week and medical experts predicting another surge in numbers after the lockdown is lifted, will Tamil Nadu be able to handle the influx of infected patients? Is lifting the lockdown worth the risk? Medical experts and economists say the state should be able to handle a surge in infections if it lifts the lockdown while ensuring an effective surveillance system, community engagement, effective quarantine and isolation with good facilities, increased testing and contact tracing, to contain the spread. "What we are seeing now in Tamil Nadu means the epidemic is growing," said virologist Dr Jacob John. "But I believe the state is confident because TN is number one in the country for its health management system, while it falters a little when it comes to crisis management where Kerala excels," he added. That nearly 80% of the cases are asymptomatic helps in handling the outbreak, Dr John said adding that high mortality rate among senior citizens in the 20% symptomatic cases means the elderly need to be ‘cocooned’ at home by ensuring social distancing and other measures. "As more and more people get infected and become immune, the proportion of immune people will increase gradually. So one person will not be infecting the number that he would infect if there is both immune and non-immune in the population," he said. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of school of health systems studies, TISS, said engagement of the community, which includes counselling and encouraging them to get tested, which Kerala adopted, has been absent in Tamil Nadu. He said lockdown should be lifted after putting in place several measures like social restriction, better community quarantine and isolation, wide testing, social workers tracing, counseling, and a campaign against stigmatisation. "The state did not look for non-contact symptomatics in the beginning. They built a story they went by known contacts till they found cases with unknown contacts and by then the mega Koyambedu cluster and others were found. After starting well, TN lost it because they did not suspect there may be more cases after the first big chain of transmission," he said. "I make no case for lockdown. Three weeks is enough. You need social restriction. If you have good data about which sections it is spreading in, then you can focus certain activities which are more associated with social mixing. All these restrictions on shops shutting early is only unnecessarily scaring people," he added. K Jothi Sivagnanam, head of department of economics, University of Madras, said the lockdown has to be lifted immediately to both revive the economy and protect the informal sector of 415 million workers who live in urban areas. "Opening the economy is not like turning a switch on and off. Countries like the US announced a stimulus package in which wage guarantee is a part because they want to keep the system alive. Sadly, we do not have that type of thinking here," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lifting-the-lockdown-what-it-means-for-tn/articleshow/75564652.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh reports more recoveries than new cases on Tuesday||BHOPAL: The number of recoveries were higher than the number of Covid positive cases reported in the state on Tuesday. While 107 people tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, 144 patients recovered from the deadly virus. With the new patients, the corona tally of state has crossed 3,000 — reaching 3,049. The number of recoveries also hit 1,000. Eleven deaths were also reported in the state on Tuesday from Ujjain (5), Indore (2), Jabalpur (2), Bhopal (1) and Satna (1). The Covid death toll in state is now 176. The districts where new patients were found are Indore (43), Dhar (20), Ujjain (18), Bhopal (8), Jabalpur (8), Raisen (4), Khargone (2), Khandwa (2), Tikamgarh (1) and Anuppur (1). As of now, 54, 595 people have been tested for the disease in the state. Of these, 3049 have been tested positive all over the state. Overall nearly 30% of the people who were tested positive for covid-19 in the state have recovered so far. Of the total positive patients who are admitted in hospitals across the state 241 are in critical condition, the remaining 1,632 are said to be stable. Government has declared 796 localities across these 34 districts as containment zone and have restricted any kind of movement in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-reports-more-recoveries-than-new-cases-on-tuesday/articleshow/75564643.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Delhi||No risk is high enough? Liquor lovers in Delhi willing to pay the price||NEW DELHI: Having to pay 70% over the maximum retail price of alcohol has done little to dampen the spirits of Delhiites. On the second day of resumption of liquor sale on Tuesday, following the chaotic mess of Monday, there were hordes of people lined up outside wine and beer shops in the city, stoically bearing both the inflated rates and the long hours in the blazing sun to be able to go home with a bottle or two. Most, however, paid little heed to social distancing, prompting police to shut down the vends much before the mandated 6.30pm. Lado Sarai resident Subhash Sejwal appeared distraught outside a liquor shop in south Delhi’s Chirag Dilli. “I couldn’t buy any alcohol yesterday, and today stood in the queue for over four hours, only to be chased away by policemen,” he said. Sejwal, who lost his job as a driver recently, alleged that bottles were being illegally peddled at the rear of the shops. At Sheikh Sarai, over 200 buyers waited from 6am for the local liquor shop to open at 9am. “We have borne the sun’s heat all this while, but the shutters never went up,” said marketing professional Anirudh Singh. The Saket resident was also angry at the 70% special cess imposed on alcohol late on Monday. “This is like selling alcohol in the black market but with government support,” he decried. But while disappointed by the sharp and “arbitrary” increase in retail price, aimed at boosting government revenues, according to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the buyers were ready to dole out any amount to get their hands on some bottles. Gaurav, a property consultant in Trilokpuri, stood sullenly outside the vend from 8am, angry at the cost hike, but willing to pay the price. A fellow consumer, sales executive Sanjeev Kumar, grumbled, “The middle class doesn’t drink much, but the manner in which the price was increased is discriminatory. As it is, the shops are inflating prices, so there was no need for the government too to jack up the rates.” Amid the general melee, liquor buyers in Anand Parbat proved they were a disciplined lot, consciously limiting themselves to the circles marked for them. “I need liquor, and if there is system in place for getting it, I find no harm in obeying the regulations,” said Prahlad Singh, a sales executive who was recently laid off by his employer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-risk-is-high-enough-liquor-lovers-in-delhi-willing-to-pay-the-price/articleshow/75565213.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 6, 2020||Goa||BJP wants Margao roads to be repaired before monsoon||MARGAO: The BJPMargao mandal on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the work division–VI of the public works department (PWD) demanding that hot-mixing of roads in Margao should taken up on a priority. The memorandum submitted to assistant engineer Savio Gomes, pointed out that the roads have not been repaired for a “long time and that the locals have to face hardships owing to the bad conditions”. Mandal general secretary Navin Pai Raikar pointed out roads in urgent need of repairs and areas which need regular pre-monsoon tarring or hot-mixing, which has remained unattended for over a year. The party’s state executive member Sharmad Raiturkar said that a flash pre-monsoon shower would be enough to deteriorate the condition further if the roads were not repaired immediately. Raikar also warned that any delay from the PWD could lead to public protests, and urged the authorities to execute the work within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-wants-margao-roads-to-be-repaired-before-monsoon/articleshow/75565218.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||No. of Covid cases rises by 85 across state in 24 hours||Kolkata: Bengal has registered a spike in the number of Covid cases on Tuesday. While the figure on Monday was 1,259, it increased by 85 to 1,344 on Tuesday — a rise of 6.8%. Nearly 52% of all Covid positive patients in Bengal are from Kolkata, according to data released by the state on Tuesday. Kolkata has 700 Covid positive cases. The active positive cases in Kolkata is 472 that is 50.2% of the 940 such cases in Bengal. It marks a slide from the situation four days ago when 80% of Covid cases were reported from Kolkata. The fatality and recovery rates in Kolkata are also higher compared to Bengal. Kolkata has reported 40 deaths which account for 58.8% of total Covid deaths in Bengal, while 136 people have been cured in the city, which is 51.5% of the total persons cured in Bengal. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said contraction of virus is high in all metropolitan towns and cities having a high density of population and mobility. He informed that there have been seven fresh Covid deaths in the last 24 hours after the state announced 61 deaths on Monday. The tally went up to 68 on Tuesday, he said. The figure doesn’t include 72 deaths due to co-morbidities of Covid patients. The Union health ministry has also acknowledged deaths due to co-morbidities in its bulletin in which the death figures till Monday stood at 133 (61 + 72). The state home secretary didn’t indulge in the debate over deaths in Bengal, though joint secretary of Union health ministry pointed out while explaining the sudden spike in death figures in India on Tuesday that two or three states didn’t report corona cases and deaths on time.  “We persuaded with the states and they gave additional information leading to the surge in total cases and death figures,” the joint secretary said. Bandyopadhyay said: “I can tell you that we are sharing data transparently.” Earlier in the day, minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya put it straight. “The state is not hiding facts. It is giving out numbers as and when it comes. The 72 deaths due to co-morbidities were announced after a medical panel of experts examined the cases. I don’t see anything wrong in it.” The home secretary reported deaths due to Covid on Tuesday without a mention of deaths due to co-morbidities, putting the total death figure at 68. Bandyopadhyay didn’t name the IMCT, but addressed its observation that Bengal has the highest mortality rate in India. “Mortality rate looks high when there has been limited number of tests. It goes down despite a numerical rise in deaths when more tests are done. The high mortality is not because of the state’s failure in Covid management. It is because we didn’t have the logistics and infrastructure to test swab samples till a month ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-covid-cases-rises-by-85-across-state-in-24-hours/articleshow/75563744.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal doctor couple design handsfree kit, easier to doff||BHOPAL: A Bhopal-based doctor couple have developed a personal protective equipment (PPE) suit for protection from micro-organisms with an automated donning and doffing system. “PPE is not recommended to be worn by the general public. This PPE suit is for police personnel, emergency workers and even people in an office space,” said GHMC associate professor, Dr Nisanth Nambison. The main feature of the suit is an apparatus to wear and remove the PPE without actually directly touching the exterior of the PPE and thus reducing the risk of infection. The new suit is significant as despite wearing PPE, several doctors and other medical staff contracted the infections due to the wrong way in removal of the PPE. The new design supports safe removal of PPE, he added. The person stands under a rectangular 4-sided piped structure and strings. When the bottom of the cassock with rings is hooked with the string, the rotation of pulley (manual or motorised) will pull the cassock on all four corners and lift it vertically hooks on the end via a pulley, Dr Nisanth explained. It is a single piece PPE with no sequential wearing, very easy to wear and can be worn in no time. A patent from the office of the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks (CGPDTM) has been applied for. “While removing a PPE suit, risk of infection spread is the highest. This suit minimises the risk of cross-contamination,” said Dr Nambison. He estimates that the entire setup along with a PPE suit would cost about Rs 2,600. The apparatus for donning on and doffing off can be used by multiple people. The PPE is also reusable. The suit is ideal for people with low or no risk and as extra care for hospital settings. With COVID-19 here to stay, the suit can be used for travel, going to the workplace or public places and hospital visits (as an attendant), explained Dr Smita Nambison. The suit meets meets ISO 16603 class 3 exposure pressure, or equivalent standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-doc-couple-design-handsfree-kit-easier-to-doff/articleshow/75564628.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Mudumalai Reserve loses sniffer dog||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A sniffer dog attached to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris died of liver problems on Tuesday. Named Holfer, the Belgian shepherd was successfully deployed to crack many wildlife cases in MTR and other reserve forests. According to K K Kaushal, field director, MTR, the five-year old dog had contracted liver problem two years ago. “Holfer was then taken to Namakkal veterinary college hospital for treatment. It returned fully recovered.” According to the official, the same problem seems to have recurred and claimed the dog’s life. “It died today (Tuesday) morning.” Trained at the BSF Academy for Dog Training in Teekampur near Gwalior, the dog was donated to MTR by the Wildlife Trade Monitoring Network in 2016. “Holfer was quite useful and sharp. It helped in cracking cases in MTR and other units,” the official said. After postmortem, the carcass was buried inside the forest with full honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mudumalai-reserve-loses-sniffer-dog/articleshow/75564681.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||6 killed in two separate accidents in Ernakulam||Kochi: Six people, including a man and his daughter, who were returning from a hospital where his pregnant wife was admitted for delivery, died in two separate accidents that were reported in the district within a span of 24 hours. On Monday evening, a car rammed an autorickshaw parked near a roadside stall selling food items for iftar, killing a man, who was the auto’s driver, his daughter and another person who was at the stall. The incident happened at Muttom, near Aluva. According to sources, in Monday’s incident, the car, which was moving in Aluva-Ernakulam direction, lost control and rammed an auto. The deceased were identified as Majesh (35) of Thrikkakara, his daughter Archana (11) and Kunjumon (40) of Muttom. Ramesh, a man close to the family of Majesh, said Majesh’s wife was admitted at an ESI hospital at Pathalam as delivery was nearing. Police have registered an FIR under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence). A few others who sustained minor injuries received treatment from a nearby hospital. “The bodies would be handed over to the kin after an autopsy on Tuesday. An investigation is on to find out how the car went out of control,” said police officer with Aluva East police station.  Earlier, on Sunday night, a car rammed a building at Mekkadampu in Muvattupuzha, killing three and injuring at least five. Three among the injured were migrant labourers who were residing in the building.  The deceased have been identified as Basil George (30), Nidhin (30) and Ashwin Joy (29), all hailing from Valakam. Sources said Basil had played lead role in a Malayalam movie. Lathish (30) and Sagar (19) who were in the car sustained injuries.  According to police, the car which was heading towards Muvattupuzha from Kolancherry hit an electric pole before ramming the building. Residents and fire force rushed to the spot to provide assistance, however, the trio was declared brought dead on arrival at a hospital. Police said an FIR has been registered and an investigation is on to find the reason behind the accident. Bodies were handed over to the kin after an autopsy on Monday, police said.  “We have received information that the those in the car were going to the house of a friend. However, the exact reason would be known after an enquiry. The vehicle went out of control and crashed into the house where the migrants were staying. They were having dinner when the accident occurred. However, none of the injured have any critical injuries,” a police officer with Muvattupuzha police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/6-killed-in-two-separate-accidents-in-ernakulam/articleshow/75550183.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Capt Rajkumar, known for his flood rescue ops, retires||Kochi: Captain P Rajkumar, a senior helicopter pilot of Indian Navy, who has won the respect of many with his heroic helicopter-rescue missions amid the devastating Kerala floods 2018, retired from the Navy on Thursday after 33 years of service. Rajkumar, a native of Nilambur, became well-known after he had maneuvered a helicopter and landed on a rooftop defying all odds to rescue 26 people in a single rescue mission at Chalakkudy during the floods. The officer was awarded two gallantry awards — the Shaurya Chakra, for his daredevil night time rescue mission undertaken at sea off Kochi flying the Seaking helicopter during Cyclone Ockhi in December 2017, and the Nausena Medal, for rescuing the lives of four scientists during a snowstorm in Antarctica as a member of the Indian scientific expeditions to Antarctica in 1990-91. He was also the joint recipient of prestigious ‘Asian of the Year’ award in 2019 announced by the Straits Times, Singapore, for his rescue efforts during the Kerala floods. Capt Rajkumar was commissioned into the flying branch of the Navy in July 1987.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/capt-rajkumar-known-for-his-flood-rescue-ops-retires/articleshow/75551190.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-free Amreli in a fix over Surat migrants’ influx||Rajkot: With the state government permitting migrant diamond workers in Surat to return to their native in Saurashtra and North Gujarat districts, Amreli, which has been Covid-free till now, is in tenterhooks.The district administration, which is already struggling with lack of adequate medical and screening facilities to fight the pandemic, expects nearly 1.5 lakh people in the next 15 to 20 days. Around 500-600 people are being caught entering the district daily, of whom only around 150 have legal passes to enter the district. Already more than one lakh people have entered the district in the last one and half months. Sans private medical facility unlike bigger cities, Amreli has a combined capacity of 6,000 beds ready for Covid patients, but this will now be ramped up to 10,000 beds now. There are total 12 government physicians in the entire district. Even though Surat district administration has assured that migrants will be allowed to travel only after medical verification, Amreli authorities don’t want to take any chances. Talking with TOI, Amreli district collector Aayush Oak said, “We are expecting nearly 1.5 lakh people to enter the district in two three weeks’ time. People coming in with valid passes will be put under home quarantine from the check post itself, but anybody found with the slightest symptoms will be sent to the quarantine facility. Those caught entering illegally will of course be sent to the quarantine facility.” “We are trying our best to prevent spread of infection as the busloads will arrive from the red zone. We have limited resources, and amid al constraints we will have to work to our fullest capacity to accommodate everybody with valid passes,” Oak added. While the migrants want to return to the safety of their hometown, the administration is getting jittery at the prospect of handling the huge influx from Covid-battered Surat. The administration, meanwhile, is preparing to handle 3,000 people per day though the number of migrants seeking entry into the district far exceeds its calculations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-free-amreli-in-a-fix-over-surat-migrants-influx/articleshow/75562267.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man assaulted by cops, report sought||Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) has sought a report from deputy CP, Central Zone, Hyderabad following a complaint from a resident of Chikkadpally of allegedly being thrashed by sub-inspector Kishore and being looted of a sum of Rs 50,000. The report is to be submitted to the commission by June 2. The complainant had filed an FIR with the sub-inspector, Chikkadpally for an issue in their locality, however, the police personnel asked him to pay Rs 30,000 and later Rs 20,000 as they were short of money. “I have repeatedly asked for the money but the police has not returned me the money and assaulted me verbally and physically,” reads the complaint addressed to the TSHRC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-assaulted-by-cops-report-sought/articleshow/75564692.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Anxious migrants dial for help, but hit a dead end||PANAJI: Every day, for the past three days, a Belagavi man has been trying to reach the helpline set up by the state government. But all that he gets to hear is: “The dialled number does not exist. Please check the number you have dialled.” The Belgavi man is not alone. From Noida to Pune, anyone who has tried to reach the state’s helpline—0832-2419550—has got the same message. TOI also tried the state’s helpline number and was able to connect only through a BSNL landline. Of the 3.5 lakh migrant workers in Goa, nearly 80,000 migrants have registered themselves with the authorities seeking permission to return home but are clueless about the procedure. As increasingly anxious and stranded people tried in vain again and again, there was no response from the government on the monumental goof-up. The nodal officer in charge of interstate travel, Kunal, who was unreachable himself for most part of the day, didn’t respond to TOI despite repeated calls and messages. On Monday, in the absence of clear messaging or standard operating procedure (SoP), migrants were made to run from one government office to the other as they sought information on returning home. “I have been trying to return to Karnataka for 15 days now, but nobody has been able to advise me correctly on the procedure,” the Belagavi man said. “My form has been rejected. I haven’t been able to get through to the helpline. When I called the district helpline for help and guidance, I was directed to this same helpline for interstate travel, but I could never get through to it,” he said. After chief minister Pramod Sawant, police, and other state brass tweeted the helpline number on May 2, many were desperate and quick to take to social media to say they couldn’t connect to it. One Pune resident stuck in Goa stated that she filed the online application form and added that the helpline number is not working. “Plz help, I’m in distress,” she tweeted. The failure of the number also affected Goans stuck in other states. One Goan brought it to the notice of Goa police that he applied again through the new web portal for Goans stranded elsewhere. “The helpline number is not working and there’s no reply on WhatsApp,” he said. Another said, “I registered online twice, but the registration number seems invalid. I called the helpline number and it doesn’t get through. I am stranded in Noida due to the lockdown and wish to return to Panjim to my mother. Please help @goacm @DGP_ Goa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anxious-migrants-dial-for-help-but-hit-a-dead-end/articleshow/75565214.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Corona necessity is mother of invention||AHMEDABAD: What does a farm pesticide control system manufacturer do during the Covid-19 outbreak? The company can make a miniaturized version of UV-based disinfectant for goods of daily use. What does AI trained for preparing business reports in simplified manner do? It can make sense of the numbers getting updated every hour. As the adage goes, necessity is the mother of invention and Covid-19 is proving to be that necessity for startups to contribute solutions. At CIIE.CO of IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), multiple startups are building on their existing tech and services to come up with new innovations in the fight against Covid-19. Vipul Patel, partner (seed investing) at CIIE.CO, said that the crisis can be a turning point. “Entrepreneurs and startups can consider it as an opportunity to go back to their drawing boards,” he said. “They can question their assumptions, think about how they can immunize their business model in the current crisis and if required, pivot quickly to become more relevant and sustainable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-necessity-is-mother-of-invention/articleshow/75564716.cms||Parth Shastri
May 6, 2020||Lucknow||World looking up to India for cure: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: CM Yogi Adityanath launched the Ayush Kavach app on Tuesday. Developed by the Ayush department specifically for Covid-19, the app will help people access prescriptions to strengthen their body’s resistance through yoga and ayurveda. Yogi said the world was looking up to India with “hopes in its fight against the global epidemic” and that he believed that the Ayush Kavach app could help in this fight. “In ayurveda and the ancient traditions of India, there is a lot of information on developing immunity which will be helpful in fighting such a virus. This app can provide information about ayurveda and traditional medicines,” he said. New agency for job avenuesTo promote industry and develop avenues of employment in the state, a new Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency is being set up. Principal secretary, industries, Alok Kumar said CM will head the agency. “The agency will be formed by strengthening the existing investment promotion agency Nivesh Bandhu. Ministers for industries and MSME will be vice chairpersons and experts from various industrial and commercial sectors will be it members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/world-looking-up-to-india-for-cure-yogi/articleshow/75565216.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Hubballi||No positive cases in Gadag area since 15 days||Hubballi: Residents of Ranganwadi in Gadag are heaving a sigh of relief as the area has not reported any positive case since the last 15 days. More than 100 families in Ranganwadi were living in fear after the area reported four Covid-19 cases between April 6 to 20. The first positive case was that of an 80-year-old woman who subsequently died. In the next few days, three more persons, either primary or secondary contacts of the women were tested positive. All the cases had no travel history, and this posed a big challenge to the district administration. Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath told TOI that after the death of the old woman, the district administration declared Ranganwadi as containment area and took unprecedented steps to contain the spread of the disease. All entry and exit points of Ranganwadi were closed and all families were home-quarantined. Patrolling was increased in the area to prevent movement of persons and vehicles. Essential commodities were delivered at the doorstep of people. “Ranganwadi has a population of 460 persons. We have collected throat swab samples of 400 persons who were primary and secondary contacts of the four positive cases. But to our relief, all tests have turned negative. There has been no fresh case from this area since April 20. The area will continue to be a containment area till May 18,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-positive-cases-in-gadag-area-since-15-days/articleshow/75562287.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 6, 2020||Rajkot||Admin tightens the checkposts||The district has 39 checkposts while administration allows outside people to enter from Chavand and Kothda Pitha checkposts. It has also asked hotels and restaurants near the checkposts to provide refreshment facility for people coming in with valid passes while they wait at the checkposts for screening. Hotel owners have also asked to provide parking facility for the buses and private vehicles entering the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/admin-tightens-the-checkposts/articleshow/75562283.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Limited beef supply resumes, but sold out within hours||Panaji: A day after markets opened across the state and some semblance of normalcy began to return, the supply of beef from Belagavi also resumed. A consignment of over 3.5 tons arrived in the state on Tuesday, most of which was supplied to South Goa. Sources said that there were 4-5 stores selling the red meat at Gandhi market, Margao, and some stores in Chinchinim, Curtorim and Varca. “In the coming days, we are expecting more beef to be supplied to the state. Other areas like Ponda and Vasco will also receive beef supply,” said vendor Shaikh Shabbir. Prior to the lockdown, traders used to bring about 10-12 tons of fresh beef from Belagavi to Goa to meet the state’s demand. Meat traders from Margao said that the beef stock was sold out within the first half of the day. Anwar Bepari, who owns a store in Panaji, kept his shutters down since he didn’t get any stock. “The municipal market is not fully allowed to open, owing to which we’ve not received the consignment. Only one meat van arrived in Panaji. It wanted to supply the meat to beef stores here, but we couldn’t avail of it.” The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has opened up the Panaji market with 50% of its stores running on an odd-even schedule. Meat traders are therefore hopeful that this will enable them to reopen their shops and start selling beef again. “Beef sellers will also have to follow the odd-even schedule like other shop owners. Only half of the shops will be allowed to open on one day, and the remaining 50% can operate the next day,” said Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/limited-beef-supply-resumes-but-sold-out-within-hours/articleshow/75565215.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur to get Covid-19 testing centre||TIRUPUR: State animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan said that Tirupur would get a Covid-19 testing centre in a couple of days. Radhakrishnan, who chaired a meeting with industrialists in Tirupur on Tuesday, said that the centre would be equipped to test more than 200 samples a day. Till now, swab samples of people collected in Tirupur are being sent to the labs in Coimbatore or Chennai to get tested for Covid 19. The announcement has come at a time when Tirupur garment units are all set to open and scores of workers would be visiting every unit daily. Radhakrishnan said that the reopening of the garment units had come as a relief to the industrialists as well as workers who were struggling without a livelihood ever since the lockdown kicked in. He said that a committee would be put in place to look into the issues faced by the garment sector. The industrialists can approach the committee with their grievances, he said. He advised the apparel units to strictly follow the guidlines with regard to social distancing at workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-to-get-covid-19-testing-centre/articleshow/75564699.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 100 to undergo tests daily in high-risk clusters||KOLKATA: The state health department has started testing over 100 people daily in high-risk clusters where more than five positive cases have been reported. The department planned to set up swab collection centres in four Kolkata zones, including Strand Bank Road, Bowbazar, Tangra and Garden Reach. On Tuesday, 2,455 tests – the highest on a single day – were conducted across Bengal, scaling up the testing figure in the state to 27,571 so far. The decision to open the swab testing centres in the city was taken on Monday following an urgent meeting between the civic and state health department officials. “State health department officials will train our laboratory technicians,” said a KMC health department official. At least nine Howrah wards, where the number of Covid positive cases ranged from nine to 19, are being kept under scanner. Tests have been scaled up in wards 15, 27, 29, 30, 31, 34, 36, 39, 40 and 46 in Howrah. The first large-scale testing took place at Sanatan Mistry Lane in Golabari on Sunday while the second day-long operation happened on Tuesday at Jogamaya Bustee in Bantra. Total 125 swab samples were collected on Tuesday. On Sunday, swab samples had been collected from 100 people. “We are first going to areas that have reported the maximum number of positive cases and are contact tracing of these positives. We are following a pattern instead of going in for random sampling because there’s very little time to lose," said the HMC commissioner, Dhaval Jain. “Before the joint operations team reached the spot, they were armed with definitive information of whose swabs to collect. The use of thermal temperature checking doubly ensured that the swabs of the right targets were taken. Once the reports of the two places come to us, we will know whether to continue with this model,” Jain stressed. More than 30 people were sent into institutional quarantine from Jogamaya because it is a congested place and people do not have space to isolate themselves, share toilets and other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-to-undergo-tests-daily-in-high-risk-clusters/articleshow/75563798.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 6, 2020||Surat||Diamond workers set to return home||Surat: Exodus of the diamond workers from Surat is set to begin on Thursday with district administration approving the intrastate travel following nod from the state government.The decision to this effect was taken at the meeting chaired by state forest minister, Ganpat Vasava, state health minister Kumar Kanani and Gujarat’s commissioner of municipalities, Mahendra Patel in the presence of the representatives from Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the luxury bus operators association at the district collector’s office on Tuesday.There are about five lakh people from Saurashtra and North Gujarat working in diamond units of Surat. Industry sources believe that nearly one lakh workers have already reached their home towns in Saurashtra soon after the lockdown was first announced in March last week.In the present arrangement, sources are expecting another 2 lakh workers to return to their natives in Saurashtra and North Gujarat.The administration issued a set of guidelines for the movement of workers within the state, especially Saurashtra and North Gujarat. They will have to compulsorily travel in the private buses and that the bus operators will have to apply for the vehicle passes online with complete details of passengers travelling to the specific destinations starting from Wednesday.Vasava said, “Like the migrants from other states, workers from within the states will be able to travel to their home districts from Thursday. For the first few days, the private buses will be allowed for transporting workers within the state. We will allow the movement of the people in private cars and GSRTC buses at a later stage,” he added. Each passenger will have to pay the bus fare, which could be between Rs500 and Rs600 from his own pocket.President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya, meanwhile, killed rumours about the diamond trade not starting for another year due to Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-workers-set-to-return-home/articleshow/75562310.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Wild things at risk as humans come out in open again||NEW DELHI: The lockdown period of over 40 days has allowed animals and birds to fall into “biological traps” — nesting and breeding grounds that appear to be quiet and empty, but can turn dangerous for them once people return to the open. Experts said as this is the mating season for many species, the easing of lockdown restriction can turn dangerous for them. Instances of nilgai, rhesus macaque and other animals from nearby forested patches venturing to parks and even localities were recorded when full restrictions were in place. Birds, which breed during this period, may have built nests in parks and other vulnerable locations. With human movement once again allowed from 7am to 7pm, it can pose a risk to them. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said, “This could be considered a downside of easing of the lockdown. We have seen a lot of positive things happen during this period, both in terms of air and noise pollution. This was the ideal time for wildlife to move around freely, but it also puts them at risk in the long term. Parks and open green areas are prime examples of biological traps. People will have to be extra careful in the first week.” Wildlife SOS, an NGO involved in rescuing animals, said the number of calls received by them has increased considerably since the relaxations. “It is possible that animals that had ventured out in search of food or an ideal nesting ground are now in trouble as humans are out again. Humans were concealed earlier, giving animals a false sense of security. This is also the breeding season for birds, so we are receiving a large number of calls of hatchlings injured from falling off nests,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS. Satyanarayan said most calls received by them pertain to nilgai, monitor lizards, black kites and snakes. “There have been a large number of nilgai sighted near Delhi airport. This is not a natural habitat for them. Once vehicles are back on the roads, it will become difficult for both small and large mammals to return to their old habitats,” he added. M Shah Hussain, scientist in-charge at Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Vasant Kunj, said larger mammals like nilgai who may have reached biological traps may find this period tricky, but smaller animals like jackals, porcupines and civet cats can adapt better and hide. “Nilgai were seen near malls in Vasant Kunj, but they’ll be fine as long as they don’t venture too far. Snakes are only venturing out at night when the movement of people is restricted,” said Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wild-things-at-risk-as-humans-come-out-in-open-again/articleshow/75565224.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 6, 2020||Surat||Green zone DNH records its first case||SURAT: Soon after being declared a green zone for keeping at bay coronavirus, Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on Tuesday. A 27-year-old woman from Dadra village, having travel history to Mumbai, tested positive for the virus. She has been shifted to the isolation ward of Covid-19 hospital in Silvassa. All those who came in her contact will be brought to quarantine facility. About 80 people, who returned from Maharashtra and other states, have also been quarantined at a government facility. DNH collector Sandeep Kumar Singh told TOI, “The woman was under quarantine when she returned from Mumbai on April 3. Her sample was taken and that she tested positive for the infection. We have shifted her to Covid-19 hospital in Silvassa. Dadra village is under containment and nearby villages kept under buffer zone. Intensive screening of residents in Dadra village is being carried out.” Earlier, a man from Naroli in DNH tested positive for coronavirus and was in a hospital in Mumbai. He has been discharged now from the hospital in Mumbai after he consecutively tested negative twice for the virus. The administration had sealed its borders with Gujarat and Maharashtra much before nationwide lockdown was announced by Centre on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. While the administration ensured that population of eight lakh in the territory got essential items, food packets and ration kits during the lockdown, movement of 4,000 traders from Daman and DNH to Vapi was strictly restricted. Asked about relaxations, Singh said, “Relaxations will continue in green zones of the territory, except Dadra. The stand-alone and neighbourhood shops will continue to operate in accordance with the directions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/green-zone-dnh-records-its-first-case/articleshow/75562340.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kochi||Engineering college organizes first e-MUN||Kochi: The Government Model Engineering College (MEC), Thrikkakara, through its Model United Nations Society (MUN SOC), which is a club associated with the United Nations Academic Impact and Millennium Campus Network with the aim of empowering the youth and promoting Sustainable Development Goals, will hold its first online MUN conference (e-MUN) on Thursday and Friday. Organized by the students of MEC, it is held as a fundraiser for supporting the government in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and the profits from the event would go to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The guest of honour of e-MUN will be agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar. MUN is a platform created for students from schools and universities worldwide to participate and gain knowledge on how the United Nations (UN) works along with being aware of various global issues. To put it in simple terms, MUN is just a model of the original United Nations and the students from various institutions come to the event as delegates of various nations to participate and debate. MUN SOC is a club formed in the college to inculcate and develop the MUN culture among the student community of MEC. In fact, it is the first MUN SOC by a college in Kerala. “We have launched the first edition of MECMUN in 2017 and since its inception, have been one of the prominent MUNs in the circuit with delegates coming in from various parts of the nation. We have already conducted three conferences earlier but this time the situation demands us to go online. The prime focus of the conference will be on Covid-19 and its impact on various sectors,” said Niranjana, a second year student of MEC, who is the secretary general of the MUN SOC of the college. Since it is online, delegates from across the nation can participate and more than 100 delegates have registered so far. The e-MUN has four committees — Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), World Health Organisation (WHO), All CMs Meet PM (ACMPM) and the International Press (IP). The conference will have executive members who are prominent names in the Kerala circuit and beyond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engineering-college-organizes-first-e-mun/articleshow/75550234.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Goa||Engineering colleges to conduct own exams in July, no practicals: GU||PANAJI: All regular examinations for the degree programmes in engineering as well as the evaluation will be conducted by the respective colleges themselves in July, Goa University (GU) has decided. The decision was reached after a video-conferencing meeting held by GU with principals of the engineering colleges on Saturday. Further, in view of Covid-19 restrictions, no practicals in laboratories will be conducted. Instead, viva-voce examinations, if any, will be held online, it has been decided. According to the minutes of the meeting, the second internal test for engineering programmes will have to be conducted after the lockdown is lifted, before the conduct of the semester-end examination. The syllabus covered between February 20 and March 14 will be included in this second internal test. “The question paper format recommended by the dean and principals was accepted for implementation. The examination cell/academic cell (senior faculty and head of departments) of respective colleges shall be responsible for identifying the faculty that will set the question paper and to ensure the confidentiality of the papers,” GU has said. Filling up of examinations forms will be done online through Google Forms. “All examinations (semesters V-VIII) for repeat students for three different programmes - 2007-08; 2016-17; 2019-20 - shall be decentralized, i.e. paper setting, time-table and evaluation will be done by the college itself. Modalities for reducing the duration and maximum marks of the question papers must be discussed and finalised by the dean with the chairpersons of the board of studies and the principals,” GU has said. In the case of pharmacy programmes, GU has asked pharmacy colleges to go through the guidelines issued by the Pharmacy Council of India with regards to industrial training and practical examinations and accordingly send in a detailed proposal for the university's consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/engg-colleges-to-conduct-own-exams-in-july-no-practicals-gu/articleshow/75565219.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan relaunches Sambal Yojana, transfers Rs 41 crore to beneficiaries||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday relaunched Sambal Yojana by transferring a sum of Rs 41.33 crore to the accounts of the beneficiaries. Sambal Yojna, a pet project of Chouhan to financially strengthen the poor, was discontinued by the Kamal Nath government. In a discussion with the beneficiaries of the scheme, the chief minister said cards of the scheme that were cancelled by the previous government will now be valid. Stating that Sambal is not just a scheme, Chouhan said it is a support to the poor, investment in the future of children, empowerment of women and to ensure healthy life for the elderly. On the occasion, he gave ex-gratia assistance of Rs 33.16 crore to kin of 1,698 beneficiaries who died, Rs 8.16 crore to kin of 204 beneficiaries, who met with accidental death and Rs 1 lakh to a beneficiary for partial permanent disability. Chouhan transferred Rs 41.33 crore in the accounts of 1,903 beneficiaries directly. After transferring the money to the respective beneficiary accounts, chief minister held a discussion through video conferencing with the recipients. Talking to Deepak Namdev of Hoshangabad, Leela Bai Panchal of Ratlam, Nirmal Kumar Jain of Raisen Parvati Sahu of Chhatarpur, Meena Bai of Vidisha, Anand Shanti Lal Kaushal of Dhar, Simma Bai of Tikamgarh, Maya Bai of Khargone, Maithli Sen of Tikamgarh and Gangaram of Barwani, he informed them that an amount of Rs 2 lakh each has been deposited into their accounts. Chief minister said that the objective of this innovative scheme, which carries on from birth to death, is to provide social security to the poor and the beneficiaries of Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Under the scheme, Rs 4,000 will be given to pregnant women before delivery and Rs 12,000 post-delivery to the beneficiary. Nutritious food will be given and education of children will be free, with books, uniforms, mid-day meals available till Class 8. Chouhan said under the scheme, 5,000 children of beneficiaries who score highest marks in Class 12, will be provided Rs 30,000 each as incentive. The government will also make arrangement to bear the cost of their fees on their admission to institutions like IIT, IIM, engineering and medical colleges. On this occasion, all the cabinet colleagues of the chief minister and chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains were also present. Meanwhile, BJP on hailed the state government’s decision to revive the Sambal scheme and said that their party “has returned the rights of the poor taken away by the previous Congress government by relaunching the ambitious scheme”. “The anti-poor Congress government had snatched the justified rights of the poor after coming to power in the state by closing the Sambal scheme. The BJP government after retaining power has restored the rights by reviving the scheme. I am thankful to the chief minister for the decision and congratulate the public for the relaunch,” said BJP state president, VD Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-relaunches-sambal-yojana-transfers-rs-41-crore-to-beneficiaries/articleshow/75564705.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Muslim Okkoota seeks permission for Ramzan prayers in mosques||Mangaluru: Former mayor K Ashraf has sought permission for Muslims to offer Ramzan prayers at mosques. In a letter to chief minister B S Yediyurappa, leader of opposition Siddaramaiah and deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, Ashraf said the state government must consider positively this request from Muslims. Voicing the opinion on behalf of DK District Muslim Okkoota, Ashraf said the relaxation in lockdown is not in sync with the ground realities. Ashraf said the move to allow commercial activity will lead to the gathering of people and pose a challenge to the authorities to contain Covid-19. “It is imperative that the government maintains status quo till the end of Ramzan. If the government feels it prudent to allow these activities, it should also allow Muslims to offer prayers in mosques following (social distancing) norms,” Ashraf said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/muslim-okkoota-seeks-permission-for-ramzan-prayers-in-mosques/articleshow/75562327.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||Ludhiana top cop asks Thakur to not tweet incorrect info||RANCHI: A tweet from the Twitter handle of the Ludhiana police commissioner on Tuesday asked state water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur to refrain from creating law and order issues by tweeting out incorrect information. The move comes after Thakur on Monday tweeted that two trains from Punjab will leave for Jharkhand with stranded migrants. Thakur’s tweet read, “Two trains will leave for Jharkhand from Punjab tomorrow (Tuesday). The first one will leave from Ludhiana at 10am and the second from Jalandhar at 11am. Request all who wish to come home to reach the stations on time.” On Tuesday, the Twitter handle @Ludhiana_Police replied to Thakur’s tweet and said, “We request you to not create law and order problem for us through such messages. No train has been planned from Ludhiana to Jharkhand today (Tuesday). We will inform the persons who wish to return to Jharkhand through SMSs with exact date and time.” The handle added, “We already have a data of such persons based on their online applications. We request people not to come to the railway stations without getting SMSs. We will send them buses to reach the railway stations and will also get them screened.” Thakur’s tweet allagedly led to a chaos at Ludhiana station and according to BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo, police had to resort to lathicharge. “Many people turned up at Ludhiana station after the minister’s tweet, prompting police to lathicharge.” He added, a wrong tweet led to the chaos. Meanwhile, Jharkhand IPRD department on Tuesday night in its communiqué informed that a train from Jalandhar carrying 1,188 migrants will reach Daltonganj at 9.30am on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ludhiana-top-cop-asks-thakur-to-not-tweet-incorrect-info/articleshow/75563239.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||Activists demand action against 5 PDS dealers in Latehar for forgery, Rameshwar assures action||RANCHI: Economist Jean Dreze and two other activists of an NGO, NSK Manika, on Tuesday urged Latehar deputy commissioner Zeishan Qamar to act against five PDS dealers in the district for alleged embezzlement of ration meant for advance distribution for May by April end. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who also holds the food and civil supplies portfolio, assured action against the dealers after a thorough inquiry. The activists had marked a copy of their letter to Oraon. While Qamar was unavailable for a response, Oraon told TOI, “I am yet to get a copy of the letter. Once I get it, a thorough enquiry will be conducted, and stern action will be taken against the guilty.” Oraon said till May 3, cases were lodged against 52 dealers across the state for forgery while 100 were suspended. “Investigations are underway against 300 dealers,” he said. Dreze, NSK Manika coordinator James Herenj and NSK Manika functionary Pachathi Singh in a letter to the DC demanded cancellation of licenses of the five PDS, saying stealing ration in this difficult time was intolerable. Dreze named PDS dealers, Binu Lohra of Semri village under Kope Panchayat and Sakender Singh of Pagar village under Donki panchayat limits, for the embezzlement. He claimed that the two did not distribute advance ration for May among beneficiaries registered with their shops. The state government had announced distribution of advance ration to card holders to ensure availability of foodgrains during the lockdown. Under the advance distribution scheme, ration for March and April is distributed in March and the quota meant for May in April. The letter also claimed of having incriminating evidences against Binod Yadav of Matnag village for not giving beneficiaries their full quota of grains and Lakshmi Mahila Swayam Sahayata Samuh in Palleya panchayat for taking cuts from beneficiaries of Kurund village, asking money for linking their ration cards with Adhaar numbers and overpricing of subsidised kerosene. Krishna Yadav of Bishwal Mahila Swayam Sahayata Samuh in Janho village also did not distribute advance ration for May to particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) families living in Pananwa. “We requested Krishna for distribution of the ration by the end of April, but he did not,” the letter claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/activists-demand-action-against-5-pds-dealers-in-latehar-for-forgery-rameshwar-assures-action/articleshow/75563397.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||Over 1,100 students, workers stranded in Bokaro||BOKARO: At a time when the government machinery is working hard to bring back migrant labourers and students stranded in other states, the district administration is struggling to send hundreds of people, who are stuck here, to their home states. The authorities, however, said arrangements will be made for those who wanted to stay back. Bokaro, an industrial town and educational hub, has a good number of outside students and workers, who were stranded because of the lockdown. Many of those stranded include students from prominent schools in the town and those preparing for engineering and medical entrance examinations. The district authorities said they are extending help to these students by providing them with passes to return home. DC Mukesh Kumar said, “Students have been asked to contact the district control room and apply for passes issued by the administration.” The district authorities also said stranded workers will also be provided passes, however, both stranded students and workers have to arrange their own transport. District transport officials said they have received more than 1,100 applications from students, workers and other people who wanted to return to their home states. District transport officer Santosh Kumar Garg, who is the pass issuing authority, said, “The administration is in the process of receiving applications and will issue passes to all of them. Students, labourers or others can go back by vehicles of their convenience. Majority of those who have applied for pass belongs to Bihar.” He added that many applications for West Bengal were also received. At present, the Bengal government is not permitting entry of vehicles from Jharkhand even for those with valid passes. “For time being, we are not issuing passes for Bengal,” Garg said. The DC said stranded students, who want stay back in Bokaro, will be provided help in their studies and other amenities. He said, “Ration will be provided to all students stranded here. They can register their locations and details at the control room 06542- 222111.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-1100-students-workers-stranded-in-bokaro/articleshow/75563108.cms||Divy Khare
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||8 fresh cases from Hindpiri, Dumka on virus map with 2 cases||RANCHI/DUMKA: Ten fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in Jharkhand on Tuesday as the microbiology department at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), the state’s largest testing facility, reopened after four days. The state had reported no new cases on Sunday and Monday, a respite that health experts attributed to a fall in the number of tests after the microbiology unit at Rims was shut down for on May 1 after a lab technician tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 30. Tuesday’s figure is the biggest spike in positive case in the state since April 27, when Jharkhand recorded 20 new cases. Of the new cases, two are migrants who on May 1 returned from Haryana to their homes in Dumka district, which became the 13th of the 24 districts in the state to be affected by the novel coronavirus. The other seven are from Ranchi’s Hindpiri, a containment zone in the heart of the city with 68 positive cases. Meanwhile, nine patients — eight from Hindpiri and one from Koderma district — were declared cured on Tuesday. Jharkhand’s tally now stands at 125 positive cases, of which 86 are active while two have died and 37 have made a full recovery. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni: “We detected 10 fresh positive cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday; of which eight are from Hindpiri area of Ranchi and two are from Dumka.” Dumka DC Rajeshwari B said: “The patients, aged 25 and 32, are migrant workers and are residents of Saraiyahat block. The duo had returned home from Gurgaon in Haryana on May 1 along with nine others. They were under institutional quarantine at a quarantine centre in Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalaya Saraiyahat. We had collected their samples on May 2 and sent them to PMCH, Dhanbad, for tests.” She added, “We are setting up a containment zone in 3km radius of their residence and the patients have been shifted to the Covid-19 centre at Dumka Medical College and Hospital for treatment.” Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “All patients from Ranchi are from Hindpiri and we are shifting them to CCL’s Central Hospital at Gandhinagar. Eight patients from the area have recovered and will returning home soon. They have been advised strict home quarantine for 14 days.” The only positive patient from Koderma also recovered on Tuesday and was discharged from hospital. “The 28-year-old resident of Rajdhanwar in Giridih was admitted at Holy Family hospital in Koderma after he tested positive. He was discharged after his consecutive sample tests returned negative,” Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-fresh-cases-from-hindpiri-dumka-on-virus-map-with-2-cases/articleshow/75563340.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchiites walk into new normal through epic serials, workout||RANCHI: People in the city have made tremendous changes in their daily routine during the lockdown so that they can strike a balance in working from home, working for home and maintaining all-round well-being, within the confines of four walls, though some managed to go outdoors for brief periods. Among the lockdown diaries of the city’s residents are changing sleep patterns, rising up early, catching up on the epic serials, Mahabharata and Ramayana, walking their dogs and performing yoga and other exercises. Morhabadi Ground, once a park full of fitness freaks from all walks of life — jobs aspirants who needs to be fit for physical tests and elderly citizens longing for the morning breeze every day — is now deserted. Instead of the running or walking several rounds at Morhabadi Ground, people are restricting themselves to push-ups either on terrace or in their living rooms and gardens, for those who can afford one. Ravindra Kumar, a government job aspirant and resident of Kanke Road, said, “I used to run at least five kilometres every morning to maintain physical fitness, but now I have to compensate it with mere push-ups and indoor exercises. It is not safe to go outside these days.” Binay Singh, a resident of Harmu and teacher by profession, said, “In January, I realized that I was overweight and I decided to do exercise at the Harmu ground daily. When the lockdown was announced, I managed to fix an old bicycle and go for cycling for half-an-hour and do pranayama on the terrace.” Pets are also paying a heavy price during the lockdown. The owners are now forced to take them out only for short walks or only on terraces or residential campuses. Shalini Layak, a professor at the Central University of Jharkhand, said, “I am a dog lover and the lockdown has changed the way I used to take my pet out for a walk. Every morning, we both used to go for at least one kilometre walk earlier, but during the lockdown the distance has reduced to a few metres and I take my dog for a walk inside my colony only. It is also not safe to go for long walks as some people throw disposable items or spit on roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchiites-walk-into-new-normal-through-epic-serials-workout/articleshow/75562980.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||Congress rolls out 97 helpline nos. for migrants’ registration, payment of train fares||RANCHI: A day after its announcement to bear cost of train fares to bring back stranded migrants home, the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) on Tuesday notified 97 helpline numbers, including for districts, for registration of people who want to come back. Of these, five numbers — 9934121751,7004221206, 9431106693, 9431101718, 9431406083 and 7033403031— are allotted for state-level coordination. The state party unit’s move came on Monday soon after AICC president Sonia Gandhi had announced a similar move nationally, criticising the Union government of charging from the poor migrants and labourers. JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the finance minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government, said, “The numbers will be functional from today (Tuesday). We have rolled out a campaign to bring our brothers and sisters stranded outside Jharkhand back to their homes safely. We shall foot the bill, if the government can’t. We have been demanded that the Union government should make the migrants travel for free but to no avail.” Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said the stranded migrants will be registered through district-specific helpline numbers for smooth coordination. He said, “Even if the calls arrive on state-level numbers, we will channel it to the district concerned for registration so that we can have district wise data to plan their journey back home properly.” On payment of the fares, he said, “The party will pay directly to the government in lieu of the expenses incurred on ferrying them.” Another party member, Lal Kishore Nath Shahdeo, said since enforcement of the lockdown, a Covid-19 control centre has been running at the party level for daily monitoring and extending help to the needy across the state. He said, “Through our integrated Covid-19 control centre, we have been coordinating with different district administrations to distribute ration and other benefits to the needy. This apart, our people across the state are also working round-the-clock to ensure that the masses don’t face any problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-rolls-out-97-helpline-nos-for-migrants-registration-payment-of-train-fares/articleshow/75563438.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 6, 2020||India||70 special trains deployed in last 5 days to ferry 80,000 stranded migrant workers: Railways||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has deployed over 70 special trains to ferry nearly 80,000 stranded migrant workers, students and tourists in the past five days. Railway officials said 55 special trains had started or completed the single one-way trip till Monday and nearly 30 more trains were scheduled on Tuesday, primarily from stations including Bengaluru, Surat, Sabarmati, Jalandhar, Kota and Ernakulam. Each train carries about 1,000 passengers. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updatesThey added such trains will continue to run till states put their demand to railways. “We can go on running more than 500 such trains,” said a source. Meanwhile, officials said the special trains that are originating from or heading to Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh now face no issue as far as who pays for the passengers ticket is concerned. “While states such as UP, Rajasthan, MP and Chhattisgarh have said they will pay for tickets for all outgoing and incoming stranded migrants Jharkhand and Bihar have said they will pay for the incoming passengers,” an official said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news He added with Andhra Pradesh agreeing to pay for the tickets of outgoing passengers, the number of such states has increased. Gujarat and Telangana are the two other states that are paying for passengers going from their states. The official said this largely takes care of most of the passengers travelling in the special trains as these are the major chunk of states which are either sending or receiving passengers. “There could be some peculiar case if a train is going from a state, which is not ready to pay for the ticket, and the receiving state also refuses to pay from its kitty. We expect the problem will be resolved even in such cases,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/70-special-trains-deployed-in-last-5-days-to-ferry-80000-stranded-migrant-workers-railways/articleshow/75565960.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Terrible Tuesday: 33% rise in new cases, 50% in deaths||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad city recorded 336 new cases and 39 deaths on Tuesday — an increase of 33% in cases and 50% in terms of deaths as compared to Monday. For the city, this was the highest number of cases and deaths reported in a single day. The number of deaths almost doubled in the last seven days. In the last one week from April 29 to May 5, there was an increase of 1,852 fresh cases and 143 deaths. According to data available, the city had 135 deaths on April 29 which increase to 269 deaths on May 5. The virus has now spread to Shivranjani area, in Satellite-Parishram Apartment. One case was reported for the Ghar Vihona Awas in Satellite, two more fresh cases were from Goyal Plaza near Judges Bungalow. On Monday, a case was found in Goyal Plaza. The virus seems to have spread in Usmanpura with a fresh case from Sahjivan Society. The cases continued to get reported from Vejalpur, Sarkhej, Ghatlodia, Nirnaynagar and Jivrajpark area. Of the 336 cases reported from Ahmedabad city, 14 cases were reported from Haripura Chapra in Khokhra, Kalapinagar, Shahpur and Geeta Mandir apart from Behrampura, Jamalpur, Khadia among others. In the last seven days, the number of active cases increased by 100% in North Zone (Sardarnagar, Krishnagar, Saijpur, Naroda, Kubernagar), south west zone (Sarkhej, Maktampura, Jodhpur and Vejalpur wards). The east zone consisting Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral and Amraiwadi reported 77% increase in active cases, while the north-west zone including Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota Bodakdev and Chandkheda reported an increase of 65%.Officials pointed out that there was a constant increase in the past one week in the areas that were non-containment zones. The containment ward of central zone — Khadia, Jamalpur, Dariapur, Shahpur — saw an increase of 27% in active cases. In south zone areas of Behrampura and Danilimda and Maninagar, it registered an increase of 33%. The AMC officer said the increase in cases was because the AMC has been extensively screening the cases in the city. He pointed out that the AMC has carried out an average 1,000 cases daily since April 30. A total of 5,204 tests were conducted from April 30 to May 5. Mukesh Kumar, who has now been given the charge of municipal commissioner, said, “I am getting details of the cases and am evaluating whether the city is registering an increase in the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/terrible-tuesday-33-rise-in-new-cases-50-in-deaths/articleshow/75564839.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 testing: AP scales peak 10,000 per day||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 testing capacity touched the 10,000 tests per day milestone on Monday, April 4. This feat is a significant step in the fight against the pandemic. The state which had only one virology lab with a testing capacity of 90 samples a day on February 15 managed to ramp up its infrastructure in months and has been testing the highest number of people per million in the country for several days now. The state health department has screened nearly 18,500 people in the last two days. To get a sense how big this number is one might consider one of AP’s neighbouring states which conducted the same number tests over the last two months. Of the 8,263 tests conducted in the state between 9am Monday and 9am Tuesday, 5,445 were Truenat tests. The viral research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) at Andhra Medical College (AMC) completed 628 tests within the same timeframe, the highest among all VRDLs in the state. The VRDL at AMC was followed by the VRDL at Government Medical College in Guntur (420 tests), RIMS in Kadapa (401) and Rangaraya Medical College in Kakinada (398). During the comprehensive door-to-door surveys conducted earlier, the state health department had identified 32,792 symptomatic cases. As of Tuesday morning, 29,234 people among those identified have already undergone screening. The remaining will be tested within the next couple of days. Apart from the 9VRDLs at work in the state, AP has extended its testing footprint by making use of Trunat machines and rapid antibody tests. Meanwhile, three more VRDL labs are getting ready for launch, one each at Srikakulam, Nellore and Prakasam. The health department has also decided to use the two HIV viral load testing labs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada for Covid testing. The National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) has already accorded permission for the same. Three CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machines located at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases in Visakhapatnam, Siddharth Medical College in Vijayawada and RDT Hospital in Anantapur have also received approval to test for Covid-19. Both HIV lab-based tests and CBNAAT-based tests are antigen-based and hence confirmatory in nature. KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (medical, health and family welfare) said that the administration is intent on further improving the test footprint in the state. “The HIV viral load testing labs and CBNAAT machines will help screen more people in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-testing-ap-scales-peak-10k-per-day/articleshow/75562577.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 6, 2020||Amaravati||One more joint collector for all AP districts soon to look after agriculture, health, education sectors||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday said that a third joint collector will be appointed in all districts shortly. The new joint collector will exclusively handle agriculture, health and education issues in the districts. The chief minister said that agriculture, health and education are top priorities of the state government and district collectors should put their heart and mind on handling the issues related to the core subjects. The CM said that Rythu Bharosa Kendras(RBKs) would be inaugurated on May 30 to facilitate farmers. The chief minister said that the proposed agriculture advisory boards would be in place much earlier to advice farmers on latest farming techniques. The CM said RBKs should function as the nodal body for agriculture sector. Agriculture assistants at village secretariats would be sending daily market intelligence reports to the collectors who will be updating them on regular basis to provide remunerative price to farmers’ produce through market intervention. The CM asked the officials to take steps to provide more employment under NREGS as more and more workers would be available in the villages due to Covid-19. He said that village secretariat, raithu bharosa kendras, village clinics, renovated schools, janatha bazars would be the government’s signature on the villages. He said that the works proposed under Nadu-Nedu for renovation of schools would be completed by July. He asked the collectors to see that every beneficiary’s name should be included for grant of house sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/one-more-jt-collector-for-all-dists-soon-to-look-after-agri-health-edu-sectors/articleshow/75562650.cms||Samdani MN
May 6, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Why deploy teachers at liquor outlets, asks N Chandrababu Naidu||AMARAVATI: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday criticised chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy for reopening liquor shops without taking necessary precautions and steeply raising price. Addressing a virtual press conference on Tuesday, Naidu slammed the government for deploying school teachers to control crowd at liquor shops. “Deploying teachers to manage the mob at liquor shops is highly objectionable,” said Naidu. He slammed the government for lacking sincerity in implementing zone restrictions as people from red zones thronged liquor outlets in green zones posing risk of Covid spread. The Centre has classified zones based on cases in districts but the state government reclassified red zones only to open liquor shops. He said the decision to open liquor shops will endanger public safety. “The world is still scared about rising infections. There is no clarity on when a vaccine will be available. Self-regulation and caution are needed the most,” said Naidu. The TDP chief said that opening only government outlets was aimed at pushing poor quality brands that offer kickbacks to top leaders of the government. Naidu said the sudden opening of liquor shops has caused violent clashes leading to fatalities, domestic violence and suicides in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/why-deploy-teachers-at-liquor-outlets-asks-naidu/articleshow/75562705.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 17,000 arrested for defying lockdown in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh police have booked nearly 9.75 lakh cases for lockdown violations from March 22 to May 3, according to the latest state crime records bureau (SCRB) data. In a bid the control violators, the police have arrested people, seized vehicles, imposed fines and registered criminal cases. So far, 17,059 people have been arrested and 58,391 vehicles have been seized. A total of 53,493 cases have been registered. The state police have collected fines of Rs43.2 crore. The highest number of lockdown violation cases has been reported from Vizag. Anantapur, Nellore and Vijayawada police units follow in that order. Guntur urban police station limits have reported the least number—2,305 cases— since the lockdown. Most of these cases are against people roaming around the streets for no good reason. But the second most number of cases is against businesses that remained open despite the imposition of the lockdown. Explaining the reasons behind the large number of violations in Vizag, Anantapur and Nellore, police said that enforcement is higher in these areas as they share borders with neighbouring states— Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of collecting fines, Anantapur police comes out on top having collected Rs 4.2 crore, nearly 10% of the total amount collected. A total of 79,153 cases have been registered in Vijayawada while 43,315 cases were registered in the rest of the Krishna district. While the crime rate has seen a drastic fall, cops say that certain offences such as illegal sale of liquor, gambling rackets, arrack brewing have witnessed a significant increase. Data show that enforcement drives against lockdown violators have been largely concentrated around red zone districts and containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-17k-arrested-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75562746.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 6, 2020||Amaravati||Over 17,000 arrested for defying lockdown in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh police have booked nearly 9.75 lakh cases for lockdown violations from March 22 to May 3, according to the latest state crime records bureau (SCRB) data. In a bid the control violators, the police have arrested people, seized vehicles, imposed fines and registered criminal cases. So far, 17,059 people have been arrested and 58,391 vehicles have been seized. A total of 53,493 cases have been registered. The state police have collected fines of Rs43.2 crore. The highest number of lockdown violation cases has been reported from Vizag. Anantapur, Nellore and Vijayawada police units follow in that order. Guntur urban police station limits have reported the least number—2,305 cases— since the lockdown. Most of these cases are against people roaming around the streets for no good reason. But the second most number of cases is against businesses that remained open despite the imposition of the lockdown. Explaining the reasons behind the large number of violations in Vizag, Anantapur and Nellore, police said that enforcement is higher in these areas as they share borders with neighbouring states— Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of collecting fines, Anantapur police comes out on top having collected Rs 4.2 crore, nearly 10% of the total amount collected. A total of 79,153 cases have been registered in Vijayawada while 43,315 cases were registered in the rest of the Krishna district. While the crime rate has seen a drastic fall, cops say that certain offences such as illegal sale of liquor, gambling rackets, arrack brewing have witnessed a significant increase. Data show that enforcement drives against lockdown violators have been largely concentrated around red zone districts and containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/over-17k-arrested-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75566665.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 6, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Traders appeal officials to allot time for cleaning shops, business establishments||PRAYAGRAJ: Since the lockdown was enforced on March 23 to fight Covid-19, over two lakh traders, associated with different kinds of businesses are in dilemma. The traders’ associations have made a series of appeals to the district authorities to allot at least two to three hours’ time to them for cleaning their shops and establishments. The traders dealing in hosiery, readymade garments, shoes, stationery, book stores and other business, apprehend that rodents could damage their goods if the shops and godowns are not cleaned. Most of these traders, who had placed orders for goods in February in view of the Eid festival, even stocked the goods in shops and godowns. Sushil Kharbanda, president, Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal, told TOI “Over two lakh traders dealing in different kinds of businesses are worried about the fate of their business establishments closed for more than 40 days.“We have submitted applications to the district authorities to allot suitable time for traders, at least two to three hours, so that we can put a check and clean our shops“, he added. Kharbanda said majority of traders operate their business in rented shops and have even taken big loans from banks to run their business but after the lockdown they were in a catch 22 situation to pay their rents and loans. Both the central and the state governments must initiate corrective measures to offer a relief to traders’ community, he said. A prominent footwear dealer in Civil Lines said, “Traders should be given at least two to three hours time either in rotation or odd/ even days to enable them to take care of their stock and clean shops properly”. “Rodents easily target footwear and garments and can damage them to a major extent. “If we do not take care of stocks, we will have to face huge economic losses,” he added. Meanwhile, jewellers, associated with Prayag Sarrafa Mandal on Tuesday handed over a memorandum to the city MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi and demanded relief for jewellers and thousands of workers working in jewellery shops who were facing a piquant situation during the lockdown period. President of Prayag Sarrafa Mandal Kuldeep Soni said, “Following lockdown, survival of thousands of workers is in peril." We have urged the central and the state governments to take corrective measures for their welfare, he added. The jewellers have demanded to provide relief to them in electricity bills, rents of shops, rebate in bank loans, monetary help to workers and relief in income tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-traders-appeal-officials-to-allot-time-for-cleaning-shops-business-establishments/articleshow/75565976.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||1 killed as boulders fall on train track||Visakhapatnam: A railway worker was killed and four others injured when boulders fell on the track on the Kottavalasa-Kirandul (KK) line near Araku in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday afternoon. As per preliminary information, two injured persons were shifted to Anantagiri hospital while three others were shifted S Kota hospital, where one of them died. All four injured were later shifted to King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam. The identity of the deceased is yet to be established. Railway officials said around 12 to 15 workers from Waltair division and contract labour were engaged in track restoration works after a large number of boulders fell on the tracks in the early hours of Monday. While the restoration work was underway on the tracks near Borra-Chimudupalli stations, 75km from Vizag city and 35km from Araku, there was another fall of boulders which injured the workers. Waltair division sent a relief van within a couple of hours to the spot. Railway officials said the boulders fell following incessant rainfall on Monday night. Train services on the track are likely to be restored by Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1-killed-as-boulders-fall-on-train-track/articleshow/75562777.cms||Siva G
May 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Low pressure area remains stationary||VISAKHAPATNAM: A low pressure system that had formed over the south Andaman Sea on Sunday remained unchanged and stationary on Tuesday. In its forecast, the IMD had said the system would intensify into a depression by May 7 and move in a north-north-westerly direction toward the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. On Tuesday, however, IMD officials said there was no change in the low pressure system since its formation on Sunday. Director of IMD Amaravati centre, S Stella, said the department has been closely monitoring the system over the last three days. “Based on the present weather conditions and the features, it will take another three to four days to see any intensity develop in the system. Till then, we can’t predict and comment on the system and the cyclone warnings to Andhra Pradesh,” Stella told TOI. However, the IMD has advised fishermen to not venture into the sea till further instructions from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-pressure-area-remains-stationary/articleshow/75562809.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||HC notice to MLAs for ‘lockdown violation’||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday issued notices to MLAs who allegedly violated lockdown guidelines. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) moved by advocate Para Kishore, the high court asked the director general of police (DGP) to submit the action taken report on the alleged violations of legislators during the lockdown period. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate Karumanchi Indraneel Babu said some of the ruling party MLAs violated the lockdown prescribed by the Union government under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. He said the lawmakers, who hold responsible positions, violated the norms by organising meetings with huge gatherings, thereby jeopardising people’s health. He also wanted the MLAs to be booked under relevant laws for their violations. “They have to be tested for Covid-19 as their actions have likely put many others in danger of contracting the virus,” he pleaded. After listening to the argument of the petitioner, the high court directed the government to submit a report on whether the MLAs have been tested for Covid-19 and directed the DGP to submit the action taken report within seven days. The HC also issued notices to YSRC MLAs B Madhusudhan Reddy, RK Roja, K Sanjeevaiah, Venkata Gouda and V Rajani to submit their replies as they are respondents in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-notice-to-mlas-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75562861.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC ordinance: AG to present govt’s counter tomorrow||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday posted the hearing on a batch of petitions challenging the state government’s ordinance 5 of 2020 to Thursday. While the petitioners concluded their arguments, the advocate general, on behalf of the state government and the counsel for V Kanagaraj, the new state election commissioner, are yet to present their arguments. On Tuesday, former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas Rao presented arguments on behalf of one of the petitioners. He contended that the state government has brought the ordinance with an intention to remove Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar from the post of state election commissioner. Appearing on behalf of another petitioner, senior counsel Jandyala Ravi Shankar said the government has failed to give reasons for promulgation of the ordinance which is nothing but misuse of power.  The high court gave one day’s time to the advocate general to present the government’s arguments and reply to the contentions raised in the batch of petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-ordinance-ag-to-present-govts-counter-tomorrow/articleshow/75562836.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||High court stays GO on new colour scheme||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday suspended GO 623 issued by the state government specifying the new colour scheme to be painted on government buildings. After hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) moved by advocate Somayaji challenging the GO, the high court asked the government to file a counter affidavit by May 19 and suspended the GO till the next date of hearing. The petitioners argued that the state government issued GO 623 despite the orders by the apex court and the high court clearly stating that the state government should fix the colour scheme to paint government buildings in such a manner that the colours should be politically neutral. The PIL contended that though the directions by the courts were very clear about the colour scheme, the government issued the GO by adding ‘terracotta’ colour to the existing green, blue and white colours that resemble the flag colours of YSRC party. The petitioners argued that the state government has wrongly interpreted the courts’ orders and is continuing with the old colour scheme. Earlier, the high court issued orders to remove the colours that resemble political parties from government buildings after a lengthy hearing on a batch of petitions challenging the government’s decision to paint official buildings with colours resembling the YSRC party flag colours. Even the Supreme Court upheld the high court’s order on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-stays-go-on-new-colour-scheme/articleshow/75562891.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Can the humble Betadine help fight Covid-19?||Amaravati: Can a simple Betadine solution help eliminate the novel coronavirus? The researcher, who started trial and study on the efficacy of betadine on Covid-19 patients, says the initial results have been encouraging. An associate professor in plastic surgery at Rangaraya Medical College (KMC), Kakinada, Dr Sumita Shakar started the study on Covid-19 positive patients at NRI Medical College Hospital and Pinnamaneni Siddartha Medical College, both Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, almost 40 days ago. She secured green signal from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and AIIMS almost a month ago to take up the study. Interestingly, Stanford University has also taken up a similar study after Shakar started the research. “Betadine is a common disinfectant known across the world but less known for its gargle. I am confident that this drug is going to be more effective solution before a vaccine comes,” Sumita told TOI. She explained that Povidone-iodine (PVP-I) or Betadine has been known as a microbicidal agent for the past few decades and it has also demonstrated better anti-viral activity than other antiseptics in a few in-vitro studies against other coronaviruses (SARS-CoV and MERSCoV). “Betadine is valuable because of its most potent bactiricidal, virucidal and fungicidal properties. It is the only known broad spectrum antiviral agents. Its efficacy was studied in-vitro after the outbreak of MERS and SARS-COR and found that at 0.23% concentrate is more than 95% efficacious in killing these viruses,” she said. Dr Sharkar said. Since the effect lasts for four-six hours, it needs to be repeated at least four times a day, she said. She noted that this seems to be the most simple and inexpensive way of protecting people in the current scenario. She said that her husband and additional DGP Ravishankar Ayyanar, also a medical graduate, have also played key roles in taking up the research. Ayyanar is, in fact, encouraging all police personnel on Covid-19 duties to gargle with betadine twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/can-the-humble-betadine-help-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75562922.cms||Samdani MN
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Day 2 sees record liquor sales of Rs 197 crore in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Liquor sales on Day 2 of the lockdown relaxation hit a record high for a single day with beverages worth Rs 197 crore selling across the state on Tuesday, compared to Rs 45 crore on Monday. The previous record was Rs 170 crore on December 28, 2019. Sales in volume jumped 250% to touch 43.4 lakh litres on Tuesday, Indian Made Liquor (IML) and beer together, from 12.4 lakh litres sold on Monday. Of 43.4 lakh litres, there were 36.4 lakh litres of IML worth Rs 182 crore and 7 lakh litres of beer worth Rs 15 crore. The excise department attributed the increase to two reasons: Introduction of 6% additional excise duty announced in the 2020-21 budget; and the number of shops open on Tuesday were nearly twice that of on Monday. Some shops reported shortage of stocks by evening. However, liquor manufacturers, who resumed operations from Monday, started delivering stocks to Karnataka Beverages Corporation Ltd, with the excise department placing orders for it. Sources said the state government set a record for the highest revenue in a single day from the excise department due to the bumper sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/day-2-sees-record-liquor-sales-of-rs-197-crore-in-karnataka/articleshow/75565980.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Buses carrying migrant workers from Surat won’t be allowed anymore: Odisha govt||BHUBANESWAR: Stranded workers from Surat will not be allowed to travel back to Odisha by bus by the state government in view of the series of mishaps en-route and inconveniences caused to the travellers during the long-distance journey. They will be allowed to return only by trains. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik through video conferencing. Keeping in mind the problems like proper food and water especially to the women and children and other issues like accidents and chances of sunstroke, the chief minister directed that the stranded workers will only be allowed to travel by trains, which has been now running on daily basis, said a senior officer, who attended the video conferencing. “Permission to travel by bus has also been denied as many people are returning to the state by bus without registering their names with the state government portal, which causes problems at the border check points. Most of the buses from Surat are overcrowded. Also, some of the buses are also not adhering to the route chart given to them by the state government. Train journey is more streamlined,” the official said. Nearly 200 buses carrying around 12,000 workers have already entered the state while Ganjam is the destination of most of the buses. Around one lakh workers are expected to return to the state from the Gujarat city. Now, three trains are being run between Surat and Jagannathpur in Ganjam on a daily basis since Monday. Two workers were killed and several injured when the bus they were travelling from Surat met with an accident at Kalinga Ghat on Ganjam-Kandhamal border. Several others also injured in two separate accidents on Nagpur-Amaravati NH and again at Kalinga Ghat. As the Centre has prepared a plan to bring back stranded Indians from abroad which also includes many Odias, Naveen said their registration, testing and quarantine will be ensured before coming to Odisha, said an official statement. Many Odia people form Ganjam districts are migrated to middle-east countries to work in the oil refineries. The chief minister during the meeting directed senior officers appointed as observers of six migration-prone districts like Ganjam, Kendrapada, Bhadrak, Balangir, Jajpur and Balasore to create livelihood opportunities for the returnees, said government chief spokesperson Subrato Bagchi. The chief minister also emphasised on smooth resumption of agricultural, economic and livelihood activities in as many as 16 districts identified as green zones. Naveen asked officials to ensure conduct of agricultural activities for the forthcoming Kharif season and procurement activities of the recent Rabi crops. He stressed on providing crop loan to farmers and also to women self help groups (SHGs) for various livelihood activities. The women SHGs, who play key role in providing food to the sick and destitutes in rural areas, will get incentive of Rs 2 per meal from the chief minister’s relief fund. The chief minister lauded the women SHGs. While reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, the chief minister asked officials to enhance testing capacity of the state to 15,000 per day from the existing 3,000 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/buses-carrying-migrant-workers-from-surat-wont-be-allowed-anymore-odisha-govt/articleshow/75565990.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Over 2,000 stranded abroad to fly into Mumbai from Thursday||MUMBAI: Around 2,350 Indian citizens will arrive at the airport by special flights from six foreign counties from Thursday onwards, and they need to spend 14 days at either BMC-arranged institutional quarantine facilities or in hotels. If they would be residents from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the BMC will allow home quarantine. A total of 14,800 stranded Indians from 12 countries will be flown into the country on 64 Air India flights. Of this, seven flights from six countries — UK, USA, Singapore, Malaysia, Bangladesh, and Philippines — with 2,300 passengers will land in Mumbai. Each flight will accommodate 200-300 passengers. All Mumbai arrivals are scheduled for the first four days starting May 7. The first flight to arrive would be AI-130 from London around 1.30am on May 7, with 250 passengers. Then, San Francisco flight AI-1174 with 300 passengers would land around 4.45am, and proceed onwards to Hyderabad. On May 8, a flight from Singapore, with 250 passengers is expected in Mumbai around 12.10 pm. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “They will be monitored after their arrival. According to government guidelines, they will be screened at their boarding points, and also screened after arrival.” Officials stated that Covid-19 symptomatic patients will not be allowed to board flights. Once planes land, a central government health team will screen passengers with the help of the BMC. If someone (who started the journey asymptomatic, as mandated) shows symptoms during the journey, the BMC will take the person to a Covid hospital for treatment. The BMC will arrange for transportation for the arriving passengers to reach their destinations. Those who are to be quarantined in hotels, need to bear the charges. Additional municipal commissioner Jayshree Bhoj, who is coordinating with the aviation ministry and an association of hotel owners, said, “We are discussing with the RTO and the police, and will arrange for taxis for those living in MMR, so that they can travel to their destination for home quarantine. For others, we have arranged a list of hotels. They need to select according to their choice and need to complete the 14-day quarantine there.” On March 19, TOI reported that the BMC was prepared to receive around 26,000 Indians expected to land in Mumbai till March-end from Covid-hit Gulf nations such as the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar and Oman. But the government suspended all international flights a week before March 31 as those countries emerged as Covid hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-2000-stranded-abroad-to-fly-into-mumbai-from-thursday/articleshow/75565992.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 6, 2020||Business||HC quashes stay on Lodha’s re-appointment in two M P Birla cos||Times News Network Kolkata: MP Birla Group’s current chief Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been reinstated on the board of Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cables after the Calcutta high court quashed a stay on his reappointment as a director of the two companies. Lodha’s reappointment and some other proposals were taken up at the annual shareholder meetings in 2019 but the two MP Birla companies couldn’t act upon the resolutions as the court had restrained them from publishing the voting results of the same. Monday’s ruling clears the way for the publication of the results of various resolutions put to vote at the annual shareholder meetings of Vindhya, Birla Cables and flagship Birla Corp and reinstates Lodha’s directorship in these companies. In the case of Birla Corp, the resolutions included dividend payout to shareholders and payment of profit-based compensation to its non-executive chairman, Lodha, for the period 2018-19. Monday’s ruling adds a new turn to the 16-year-old legal battle between the Lodha family and some members of the Birla clan over the estate of Priyamvada Birla. Priyamvada had bequeathed her estate to Lodha’s late father Rajendra Singh Lodha. “This is a vindication of our client’s (Lodha) stand that third-party companies are not party to the probate suit. It is a victory for corporate democracy as the results of the polls taken at the AGMs clearly show what 99% of shareholders want,” said Fox & Mandal partner Debanjan Mandal. However, Birlas’ counsel N G Khaitan said that the division bench of the Calcutta court has refused to go into merits of the matter and has held that it is for the Probate Court to decide the same. “The division bench has held that in the facts of the case, the Probate Court should have first decided the issue of jurisdiction raised by Lodha before granting any interim relief and the order should have contained the reasons for granting such relief. Therefore, it has remanded the matter to the Single Judge for deciding the question of jurisdiction first and accordingly set aside the interim orders,” Khaitan said. Monday’s ruling follows after the three MP Birla companies appealed before the Calcutta high court that its previous orders are in violation of natural justice and fair play, contrary to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and has the effect of restraining discharge of statutory obligations to conduct various businesses at the annual general meetings. EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-quashes-stay-on-lodhas-re-appointment-in-two-m-p-birla-cos/articleshow/75565009.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Wait for Covid-19 hospital bed now 3 days in some wards||MUMBAI: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise by leaps and bounds in the city, positive patients are spending anxious hours scouting for beds. The wait for a hospital bed - in civic wards with a heavy load of cases - is now stretching for up to three days from what was previously a couple of hours when the epidemic started. The situation is worse in case of ICU beds or those for positive patients with comorbid conditions. The BMC, however, said a centralised system has been fine-tuned to streamline ICU admissions. Currently, 150 Covid-19 patients are critical in Mumbai, out of 9,945 positive cases. ICU beds in tertiary hospitals, like KEM and Nair, were the first to fill up. A doctor said the minimum duration of hospital stay for ICU patients is 12 days, and hence beds stay occupied for long. A 55-year-old civic official faced a scary situation when he couldn't find an ICU bed or one with oxygen support for five hours on Tuesday. "This, despite my father being breathless and showing an abnormal pulse rate," said his daughter, who spent harrowing hours at Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, and later at SevenHills. While the former told the family there was no ICU bed, the latter arranged for one after the family waited for hours. In between, the daughter and the man's colleagues called half a dozen hospitals, only to be told there were no ICU beds. Despite the BMC's assurances, several hospitals TOI spoke to said they had no ICU beds. Hospitals such as Nanavati, Lilavati, Breach Candy, and Fortis said all their ICU beds were full. A 31-year-old Powai resident, whose wife, infant and mother tested positive on May 2, said he called the police helpline and threatened to take his life if a bed was not arranged for his mother, kept waiting at Rajawadi for eight hours. After reports arrived at noon, he said a BMC team reached his house in no time to seal premises after he informed the helpline about the positive reports. In contrast, an ambulance arrived only at 5.30pm and dropped them at Rajawadi. "The hospital said there were no beds but asked us to wait. We waited till 1.30am. My mother, a diabetic, had hardly eaten anything," said the son, who works as a medical representative. By then, he got a headache and felt tightness in the chest, so much so that Rajawadi doctors had to give him oxygen twice. But admissions were still not done. The mother got frustrated and left for home only to find the building under containment. "She spent the night on the road without a sip of water," the son said. His wife and child were taken to a quarantine centre; the mother was finally given a bed at SevenHills on May 3, nearly 24 hours after her Covid report. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said over 500 ICU beds were in the city and helpline 1916 has been given the responsibility to guide patients in need of ICU or beds with oxygen support. "There was a problem with coordination which we have sorted out now. However, positive patients need not hurry and rush to hospitals. They should expect a call from ward offices within an hour or two. The ward offices will guide them about the next course," he said. But a 55-year-old civic engineer from Prabhadevi, one of the worst affected Covid areas, said that soon after his positive reports arrived around 7.30pm on May 3, he was expecting a call from the ward office, but that didn't come. So, he went to GT Hospital, but was told there were no beds. "I couldn't return home as I was told not to board public transport. So I spent the entire night outside the hospital till my friends arranged for a vehicle in the morning," said the man, adding that help arrived on May 4 around 2.30pm after he dialled 1916. An ambulance took him to Worli Sports Complex, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-wait-for-covid-19-hospital-bed-now-3-days-in-some-wards/articleshow/75566005.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||BMC shuts down liquor shops after two days of record sales||MUMBAI: Hours after the state sought to allow all manner of shops barring those in containment zones to lift shutters, Mumbai civic chief Praveen Pardeshi rolled it back on Tuesday saying easing of curbs would be “detrimental” to controlling the virus and ordered freezing of recent concessions including those that allowed liquor shops to reopen. The directive came on a day marked by long, indisciplined queues outside liquor shops and record sales. Most outlets reported 6-7 times the average daily business of Rs 2 lakh. Total sales in the state amounted to Rs 62 crore. “The number of positive cases have been rising and gathering of crowds in large numbers without following social distancing will be detrimental to the control of spread of the virus,” said the twopage BMC order. Traders dealing in non-essential goods and liquor shops will now remain closed until further orders. The earlier order allowing liquor shops to open was issued through chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and was in line with a Central directive easing lockdown rules. But it allowed leeway to district officials to tailor it to their requirements. Officials in some 15 districts had already decided against it despite liquor being a huge revenue-earner. Pardesi said the relaxation would have worsened the situation in Mumbai and had to be withdrawn. “There is no question of reversing Mehta’s order, we took the decision after consulting all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-shuts-down-liquor-shops-after-two-days-of-record-sales/articleshow/75565993.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s toll of 26 deaths its 2nd highest recorded in a day||MUMBAI: With 9,945 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai is now just short of touching the 10,000 mark. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that both quarantine and isolation bed strength are being augmented at a rapid pace. “We have more than 60,000 quarantine beds and many are now being fitted with oxygen support. The count of ICU beds is over 500, and the change in discharge policy (after one negative report) could further open up beds,” he said. Of the state’s 34 deaths, 26 were reported from Mumbai, the second highest single-day record for the city, while six deaths were reported from Pune and one each from Aurangabad and Kolhapur. The total deaths in Mumbai as on Tuesday were 387. Out of the 26 deaths, six occurred between May 1and May 2, the civic body said. It added that 22 patients had co-morbidities. Two of the deceased were below 40 years old, 11 deaths were among those above 60 years old, and 13 were among those aged between 40 and 60. A 50-year-old man from Bhayander who died on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19. The death toll in the Mira-Bhayander region is now four. Three of these deaths were from Mira Road. Of the 635 cases in the city, the BMC said 120 were cases tested between May 1 and May 3. Nine BEST staffers came positive on Tuesday, the single largest jump for the undertaking, taking its own count of cases to 49. In merely four days, Thane broke its own record of the highest Covid-19 cases reported in a single day as 40 patients were detected on Tuesday, taking the overall cases there to 452. The previous high was 34 patients on May 1. Three deaths too were reported from Thane city. Most of the positive cases in Thane came from Lokmanya Nagar and Wagle Estate. The Thane authorities have started doing random sampling for early detection. State officials said that while positive detections and deaths were mounting, the number of people getting discharged was also going up. On Tuesday, 352 people went home, the highest number to be discharged in a single day. The total number of people discharged so far is now 2,819, giving the state a discharge rate of 18%. Civic officials also said that to curtail any delay in people accessing healthcare, they have directed all the private nursing homes, hospitals and private medical practitioners to re-open their clinics and start providing medical services and assistance by adhering to Covid-19 control guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-toll-of-26-deaths-its-2nd-highest-recorded-in-a-day/articleshow/75566017.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: SSC and HSC teachers get nod to travel for exam assessment work||MUMBAI: Evaluation of SSC and HSC exam papers in the state is all set to resume as the state education department on Tuesday asked civic bodies and district officials to grant special permission to examiners to travel for exam paper assessment work. A high court order requires the state education board to announce SSC and HSC results by June 10. In a letter to local authorities, secretary of school education department, Vandana Krishna, has sought a nod to transport or post answer sheets to or from schools and junior colleges, let teachers, moderators or staff travel to pick up and drop answer sheets at schools and carrying papers to divisional board offices. During travel, teachers have to carry orders issued by the board and use personal vehicles or public transport. The board had asked examiners to carry SSC and HSC answer sheets home for correction. However, only a few were able to do so amid the lockdown, affecting assessment work. "The papers are either lying in school or at exam centres but teachers have not been able to pick them up. Some teachers who had taken papers home have been unable to submit them to moderators. And moderators were unable to return assessed papers to the board," said an official from the board's Mumbai division. Teachers have welcomed the decision. "Had this been done some weeks ago, evaluation would have been on track and results could be out in time. The board has however, not announced yet how SSC students will be marked in the geography paper which was cancelled," said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri. Nearly 30 lakh have taken the SSC and HSC exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ssc-and-hsc-teachers-get-nod-to-travel-for-exam-assessment-work/articleshow/75566019.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
May 6, 2020||India||Warships to evacuate 1,000 from Maldives||NEW DELHI: Around 1,000 stranded Indians will be brought home from Maldives by two amphibious warships under phase-I of the major evacuation operation called “Samudra Setu” (sea bridge) launched by the Navy on Tuesday. The two warships, the 16,900-tonne INS Jalashwa and 5,750-tonne INS Magar, will reach Male on May 8 and 10, respectively. “The warships, which have medical facilities on board and will adhere to strict Covid-related social distancing and other protocols, will then head back to disembark the around 1,000 evacuees at Kochi (Kerala). The evacuees will be entrusted to the care of state authorities,” said Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal. Under the overall Samudra Setu operation, the Navy is also keeping 12 other warships on standby for the proposed mass evacuation of Indians from the Gulf region. Two of them are already out at sea, and will head to UAE if the government decides to deploy them to that country. In Maldives, the Indian mission is preparing a list of Indian nationals to be evacuated by the first two naval warships and will facilitate their embarkation after the requisite medical screening. “The warships have been suitably provisioned for the evacuation operation. The evacuees would be provided the basic amenities and medical facilities during the sea-passage. In view of the unique challenges associated with Covid-19 stringent protocols have also been stipulated,” said Commander Madhwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/warships-to-evacuate-1000-from-maldives/articleshow/75565983.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||CET schedule out in two days: Maharashtra higher education minister Uday Samant||MUMBAI: Even as the MHRD announced a final date for JEE (Main) and NEET, the state decided to come out with the schedule for state-level entrance exams (CET) in two days. In a meeting with the higher education minister Uday Samant, on Tuesday, more centres for entrance exams in each district was recommended, after the lockdown is lifted, to ensure that students are not forced to travel long distances. The meeting with vice-chancellor and senior department officials discussed the committee's report on conduction of university exams in the state. The officials also discussed the possibility of using the carry-forward scheme for admissions to the next class, while holding exams for final-year students. Having MPhil and PhD vivas via video conference was also a suggestion made. Samant said that a final decision on the conduct of exams, and its schedule, will be taken after considering the prevailing conditions in the state. He added that the committee's report would be submitted to the state soon, after which a final decision would be taken in consultation with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Samant also proposed setting up counselling centres in each district for students and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cet-schedule-out-in-two-days-maharashtra-higher-education-minister-uday-samant/articleshow/75566028.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Pune||CET schedule out in two days: Maharashtra higher education minister Uday Samant||MUMBAI: Even as the MHRD announced a final date for JEE (Main) and NEET, the state decided to come out with the schedule for state-level entrance exams (CET) in two days. In a meeting with the higher education minister Uday Samant, on Tuesday, more centres for entrance exams in each district was recommended, after the lockdown is lifted, to ensure that students are not forced to travel long distances. The meeting with vice-chancellor and senior department officials discussed the committee's report on conduction of university exams in the state. The officials also discussed the possibility of using the carry-forward scheme for admissions to the next class, while holding exams for final-year students. Having MPhil and PhD vivas via video conference was also a suggestion made. Samant said that a final decision on the conduct of exams, and its schedule, will be taken after considering the prevailing conditions in the state. He added that the committee's report would be submitted to the state soon, after which a final decision would be taken in consultation with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Samant also proposed setting up counselling centres in each district for students and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cet-schedule-out-in-two-days-maharashtra-higher-education-minister-uday-samant/articleshow/75566045.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka urges migrants to stay back, halts trains||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Tuesday put on hold further inter-state movement of migrant workers by train hours after CM BS Yediyurappa held a meeting with builders and stressed resumption of businesses, construction and other industrial activities and the need to control “unnecessary travel” of workers. Earlier in the day, the state government had requested South Western Railways (SWR) for two trains daily for five days to Danapur in Bihar. “Since the train services are not required from tomorrow the letter cited under reference above is withdrawn,” said a late-night letter from N Manjunath Prasad, nodal officer for inter-state travel from Karnataka, to SWR. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updatesResponding to a query on Twitter on how migrant workers could return to Patna, secretary in the labour department Capt Manivannan said, “Now, they can go only after the lockdown is lifted. Let them stay put. We will take care of them.” The state chief secretary issued a corrigendum to a previous government notification permitting movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others stranded to go back to their place of residence. The corrigendum says the words ‘one-time, one day one-way passes’ in the earlier order should be read as ‘one-time two-way passes’. Though officials were not available for comment, the corrigendum appears to provide migrant labourers an opportunity to return to Karnataka. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Builders miffed by migrant workers returning homeIn their meeting with the CM, the builders are learned to have expressed displeasure at sending migrant workers from the city. Following the meeting, the CM tweeted: “Directions were given to the ministers to convince the labourers to refrain from returning to their home states”. 4/4The labourers should not heed to the rumours and avoid unnecessary travel.5. Issues relating to the weavers w… https://t.co/gzb9ypY1dz— CM of Karnataka (@CMofKarnataka) 1588677909000The SWR, along with state government, had operated eight trains since Sunday and ferried 9,583 workers. SWR has so far ferried workers to Danapur (three trains), Bhubaneswar, Hatia, Lucknow, Barkakana and Jaipur. Several lakhs of migrant workers from other states are still stranded here and waiting to go back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-puts-inter-state-migrant-train-travel-on-hold/articleshow/75566034.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Hit hard by virus, slums see 60% of Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The sudden discovery of over 50 Covid-19 cases in a slum in Mulund, which had been a low-transmission zone, is an indicator of how rapidly the novel coronavirus can enter and run through the slum pockets of the city, say BMC officials. Of the 1,927 containment zones marked in the city at the start of the week, 80% were in congested places like slums or chawls. A BMC survey conducted in the last week of April found that 60% of the deaths in the city had occurred in slums and slum-like areas. As many as 641 of the containment zones were red zones with active outbreaks while 502 were orange zones, where the infection was on the way to getting under control. Dharavi, one of the red zones, is the worst-hit slum pockets with 632 cases. An emerging concern is the Mankhurd-to-Shivaji-Nagar belt, an area which is 100% slums, in M-East ward. Of the 460 cases and 51 deaths in M-East, the stretch from Mankhurd to Shivaji Nagar accounts for 60% of the cases. Local corporator Rukhsana Siddiqui said social distancing was an alien concept in jam-packed localities like Baiganwadi. "These poor people managed a hand-to-mouth existence. How long can they stay holed up in their 10-by-10 homes? They step out looking for people giving food to feed their hungry children," she said. Former Tree Authority member Abhijit Chavan, who lives in Mulund, said the emergence of 40 positive cases in the Indira Nagar slum on Monday was an indicator of people's desperation. "People living here work as house help and are jobless due to the lockdown," he said. Many had been visiting wholesale markets set up at the Mulund octroi naka to buy vegetables that they could sell to earn some money. "Chances of them bringing the infection was higher and that's what happened," he said. Slums in posh areas such as Cuffe Parade are no better. Fifty cases were reported from Ganeshmurthi Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar and Geeta Nagar, which jointly have a population of 50,000. Local corporator Harsita Narwekar said 25 of the cases were from Ganeshmurthi Nagar. One of the index cases there worked in a five-star hotel in the locality. Narwekar said the bigger problem is inadequate testing. "Those showing only one or two symptoms are not being tested. Their high-risk contacts are thus not being identified or isolated, leading to a spread," Narwekar said. In the western suburbs, Andheri Juhu Galli, Nehru Nagar and Gilbert Hill saw a sharp spike in cases. In Nehru Nagar, a highly congested cluster with 35,000 population, 76 cases, including five deaths, were reported. Many of the residents work in plush homes in the JVPD Scheme. As their own homes are small and hot in the summer, many sit outside, said local corporator Renu Hansraj. "People here use community toilets, the biggest source for the spread of infection," she said. Officials said the percentage of positive cases in slums was rising. "It is passe to expect a Covid-19 patient to be one with a foreign travel history," a BMC official said. There was a sharp rise in cases in slums in Kurla, Chunnabatti and Saki Naka in 'L' ward, which saw 30 deaths. A corporator, who did not wish to be identified, said many step out in the evening in the ongoing Ramzan month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hit-hard-by-virus-slums-see-60-of-covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai/articleshow/75566035.cms||Richa Pinto
May 6, 2020||Thane||Kalyan, Ulhasnagar to keep out locals working in Mumbai; Thane plans hostels||KALYAN/THANE: The Kalyan-Dombivli and Ulhasnagar civic corporations have decided that they will deny entry to local residents who are employed in essential services in Mumbai in their respective cities from May 8. The civic bodies have said these people could unknowingly be carrying the coronavirus and could infect others. The Thane district administration, for its part, is considering isolating nearly 10,000 local residents employed in essential services in Mumbai, in hostels in Thane so that their families are not placed at risk. KDMC commissioner Dr Vijay Suryawanshi said 73 of the 224 patients in Kalyan-Dombivli were those who worked in Mumbai, while 28 others infected were their close contacts.“The safety of family members of employees travelling to and from Mumbai is an issue, so we requested employers and their staff to make arrangements for their stay in Mumbai. From May 8, they would not be allowed to enter KDMC limits,” he said, adding BMC was already making arrangements for its employees. The Thane district administration said there are nearly 10,000 residents of Thane city who work with the police, hospitals, the banking sector and others providing essential services. They have to travel daily between the suburbs and Mumbai. District authorities said they are planning to set up hostel facilities for these people within Thane city’s limits but they would not be allowed to go to their homes. The identification of empty buildings with proper amenities in the district was on, said officials. “We suspect those working in Mumbai may unknowingly be carrying the infection and risk infecting others at home and in their localities. So we are planning to allow them to stay at a common facility in their cities but would not allow them to go home,” said Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar. Navi Mumbai Mayor J Suttar had earlier made a similar demand to have restrictions on Navi Mumbai residents working in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalyan-ulhasnagar-to-keep-out-locals-working-in-mumbai-thane-plans-hostels/articleshow/75566000.cms||Manoj Badgeri
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Corona worms its way into realty, 5% rate dip likely||MUMBAI: Prime residential market of Mumbai is expected to see a price fall of 5% this year and another 3% price decline in 2021. A report by Knight Frank of 20 cities globally shows the direction of travel for prime residential prices in 2020 and 2021 based on projections for demand and supply, the impact of Covid-19 in the different markets and the varying government stimulus measures announced. Lisbon, Monaco, Vienna and Shanghai are the only four global prime residential markets set to see price growth throughout the remainder of 2020 as the impact of Covid-19 takes its toll on luxury residential property markets around the world, it said. Besides the forecast, Knight Frank, through its Prime Global Cities Index Q1 2020, has also shared a 12-month and 3-month price change for the prime residential markets. For instance, Bengaluru's prime residential market performed better than Mumbai and Delhi. Globally, the city ranks 27th with 1.4% annual price change for the period Q1 2019 - Q1 2020. It also witnessed a 0.1% price change in Q1 2020 compared to the previous quarter. Delhi ranks 32nd with 0.4% annual price change for the period Q1 2019 - Q1 2020. The city saw a flat 0.0% price change in Q1 2020 as against the previous quarter. Within the country, Mumbai ranks 33rd with 0.1% annual change for the period Q1 2019 - Q1 2020. The city registered a price decline of -0.1% in Q1 2020 compared to the previous quarter. "Unsold inventory pressure coupled with tough economic environment, reflected in a 6-year low GDP growth rate in Q3 FY20, and had strained prime residential market across key cities. The Covid-19 pandemic which started to reflect on market activities from mid-March this year has further aggravated the concerns of this segment. Although we do not think that the full impact of Covid-19 is captured in Q1 2020 numbers," said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-corona-worms-its-way-into-realty-5-rate-dip-likely/articleshow/75566049.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Disquiet in quarantine: Covid suspects comparing room size, food, & campus||Nagpur: The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence, goes the proverb. This seems to be the case with several of the over 2,000 Covid-19 suspects quarantined in plush buildings on the picturesque campuses of various institutions in the city. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials have discovered that the suspects have been “comparing their room size, food items and type of campus with fellow relatives and friends”, and nit-picking in the facilities provided in institutional quarantine. This was revealed when a top NMC officer personally visited the densely-forested campus of Visvesvarya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) following unabated murmurs from Satranjipura residents. Besides the sprawling VNIT campus, the state-of-the-art Symbiosis campus, newly-built Pachpaoli police quarters, and upscale Prozone Palms at Chinchbhuvan are other quarantine centres. The state-owned MLA Hostels, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati were already full and not many picked up in the mass drives from Satranjipura and Mominpura found a place there. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI most of the inmates are happy as all quarantine centres were started in recently constructed buildings. “The quarantined persons come from low income groups as well as well-to-do families. They were randomly assigned the centres. Where the facility is excellent, the inmates are enjoying there,” he said. Officials said those who got the old hostel blocks of VNIT are the ones sulking. Joshi said the citizens were fortunate to have such accommodation as compared to other cities, where finding decent space is a problem. “In big cities, suspects are being kept in big halls because of lack of such structures,” he said. Regarding complaints of food, Joshi said economic background is the reason some people were content with whatever has been served while others wanted specific items. “Some told us they loved non-veg food and can’t have dal and rice. We can’t provide that though we are trying our best to keep them happy. Many among them are observing roza (fast). We have tied up with many NGOs who are taking care of their sehri and iftaar,” he said. NMC officials observed that some inmates belonged to same families or were friends. After being admitted to the quarantine centre they had started exchanging photographs of the places they were staying in. Officials said the accommodation capacity is different at all campuses. “Some are three-sharing, some have four-sharing bedrooms, and some have just two persons in a room with attached bathroom. When others come to know they become unhappy and demand to be shifted,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/disquiet-in-quarantine-covid-suspects-comparing-room-size-food-campus/articleshow/75564405.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Away from each other for 45 days, Gondia couple finally reunited||Nagpur: It was a happy moment for Vishakha and Praful, residents of Voda village of Tiroda tehsil in Gondia district, when they were reunited on Tuesday after getting stranded away from each other in the lockdown for nearly 45 days at Nagpur. Vishakha (24), who is pregnant, had come to Government Medical College and Hospital for treatment of her two-year-old daughter Aliya when the complete lockdown was announced. She was stranded in Nagpur while her husband Praful got stuck in Hyderabad, where he was working during the lockdown. When TOI carried a story on her on March 31, cardiologist Dr Sandeep Khanzode even offered to operate upon the daughter, who has a heart ailment. Praful said, “Twenty days back, I had somehow managed to come to Kamptee with the help of a truck driver. I stayed there at a friend’s place near Dragon Palace, fearing police action due to the lockdown.” Vishakha said she shared this information with Neerja Pathania and Neha Patel, both caretakers at the shelter home, and with the help of the police they brought Praful to Nagpur. They also arranged for a job at Netravan, a community resource centre of ecotourism at Umrer for Praful. This helped the couple settle there and get some money in the lockdown period. Vishakha said, “Neerja and Neha took good care of me. I want to thank them for doing so much for us during this lockdown period.” Vijay Ghuge, president of Nisarg Vigyan Kendra, which runs this community centre, said that it was during a chance interaction with Neerja Pathania that he came to know about the couple and offered them a job. “Our centre too was also looking for some people who are in need of jobs. Praful will be involved in the maintenance of Netravan, for which he would be paid a salary. If Vishakha also wants to work with him, she will also be paid additional amount for the same. They would be provided a house to stay in the premises as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/away-from-each-other-for-45-days-gondia-couple-finally-reunited/articleshow/75564439.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||50% of Karnataka patients beat coronavirus, national average is 27%||BENGALURU: For the first since the outbreak of Covid-19, the total number of discharged patients in Karnataka is more than those under treatment and one in two positive persons has recovered so far, better than the national average. As reported by TOI earlier, the number of discharges had outnumbered the number of active cases in 10 affected districts as on May 1. On Tuesday, nearly 50% (331) of the total 673 positive cases reported from 21 districts in Karnataka have been discharged. Nationally, the recovery rate is 27%. Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Mandya and Vijayapura (which have cases in double digits) are among the 11 districts which still have more active cases than recoveries. In all, 312, or 46%, are active cases. Twenty-nine people have died due to Covid-19 at a rate of 4% in Karnataka. The fact that nearly 500 people, or 75%, of all the infected people in Karnataka were aged below 50 may have contributed to this trend. State needs to be more careful nowGlobally, infectivity and mortality trends place those above 50 years more vulnerable than others. More than 400 people who tested positive are 40 years or younger and 92 under 20. The state, two of whose quarantine facilities and one incentive-care facility have been declared “models” by the Centre, has managed to perform well in lockdown conditions, recording fewer cases than its own projections at least twice since the outbreak. With more than 74% of all cases as on Tuesday being asymptomatic and lockdown norms being relaxed, the state will have to be more careful in managing the pandemic. Aloke Kumar from IISc, who, along with Prof Santosh Ansumali from JNCASR, was among the first in the country to develop projection models, said: “...Citizens will need to employ restraint and maintain social distancing even in places where there’s more relaxation of rules than others. For instance, in just one day, we’ve seen districts in an orange zone turn red.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50-of-karnataka-patients-beat-coronavirus-national-average-is-27/articleshow/75566048.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 6, 2020||Delhi||RWAs in a dilemma as many residents want gates opened for help||NEW DELHI: While a growing number of people want their domestic workers to resume services and relieve them of cooking and cleaning chores, many others are still apprehensive about allowing outsiders into their homes. The RWAs vacillated between these two demands on Tuesday, the second day of loosening of curbs on the movement of domestic services providers like domestic help, plumbers and electricians. The latter too were in a similar quandary. The RWA of Pocket 40 in Chittaranjan Park had barred the entry of the home services people, but many residents defied the norms. RWA president R R Anand said, “On Monday, there were arguments about why we were stopping what the state had allowed. So, the association was forced to allow entry from Tuesday morning.” Entry of domestic staff a tough call for RWAsMany RWAs have opened the colony gates for domestic service providers, though with conditions and precautions. Sarvodaya Enclave, for instance, is issuing entry passes to such people after collecting personal documents to facilitate contact tracing in case they later test positive. Shafali Mittal, general secretary, Sarvodaya Enclave RWA, revealed, “The residents have given an undertaking to be responsible for sanitisation and anti-Covid protective measures. The RWA is allowing authorised people into the colony after checking their body temperature and checking addresses to see they are not from containment zones.” Many RWAs aren’t quite so open to the idea. Chetan Sharma of S Block RWA in Greater Kailash II, said, “We have decided not to allow in anyone till May 17. Our selfhelp groups will assist the elderly who require help,” he said, adding that this precaution was necessary since much of the area’s workforce lived in Sangam Vihar, Tughlaqabad and Dakshinpuri, all of which have containment zones. Rajiv Kakria of GK1 RWA elaborated on another aspect of lifting the restriction. “The surfaces touched by individual service providers like plumbers and electricians can be sanitised. But with home workers and cooks who serve in multiple homes, this will not be possible,” he said. There is some unhappiness about the Delhi government putting the onus of letting in service people on the RWAs. Ritesh Dewan, member of Shalimar Bagh RWA and general secretary of Delhi Residents’ Forum, was emphatic that the associations were not equipped to make such decisions and this would only cause infighting. Harjinder Saroha, vicechairman of Vasant Kunj Federation, similarly expressed a dilemma over giving entry to workers from corona-dense areas such as Rangpuri Pahari and Arjun camp. “It is still too risky, we have no option but to allow service providers only for elderly people on compassionate grounds,” he added. While the RWAs were perplexed on managing the situation, many domestic workers gave work a miss on Tuesday. “I did not respond to my employer’s summons,” said plumber Kamal Kant of Varinder Nagar in west Delhi. “I know that I can lose my job, but I cannot afford to pass on the virus to my family should I catch it while at work.” Kamalkant, who made around Rs 9,000 a month earlier, has exhausted his savings, but has decided the bigger evil is to risk infection. Like him, electrician Saqib Khan of south Delhi’s Khirki Extension also skipped work. “Fellow workers who reported for work on Monday told me there was very little work. So they too didn’t go back today. Why take a risk when there aren’t many who require our services?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-in-a-dilemma-as-many-residents-want-gates-opened-for-help/articleshow/75566050.cms||Paras Singh
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Deploy cops to prevent crowding among migrants||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over social distancing norms not being followed by the migrants thronging government offices to get permission to return home, the high court here directed the authorities to deploy police to control them. After government began allowing migrants to return, a large number of them are gathering at the collectorate office in Civil Lines for seeking permission and at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) for getting medical certificate, both being mandatory. Justice Anil Kilor also directed the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to supply 3,500 rapid antibody kits as per order placed by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for the city and Zilla Parishad for rural areas within a week. On delay in opening Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) in GMCHs at Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia, as pointed out by amicus curiae Anup Gilda, the judge told government to expedite the purchase of required equipment at all these places and start the labs for testing Covid-19 patients. The series of directives came on a petition by CH Sharma and a PIL by Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda along with bunch of intervention applications. Earlier, intervener Dr Anup Marar through lawyer Tushar Mandlekar contended that 3,500 kits wouldn’t be sufficient for the district having seven containment zones with over 160 patients. Therefore, at least 50,000 should be made available. In reply, NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik said rapid antibody tests would be conducted only on those showing symptoms as per the ICMR guidelines and if need arises, they would demand more kits. Collector Ravindra Thakare in his affidavit informed that after NMC and ZP raised demands for such kits with the IGGMCH, latter forwarded it to the State Public Health Department for sanctioning on May 2. He added he had apprised the department’s secretary and director of HC’s order of April 30 on steps to be taken by the government for conducting rapid antibody tests with reliable kits. NMC informed the court that they had ordered these kits with the competent authority and as soon as it was received, testing would start. On Saturday, the HC asked the government to at least conduct rapid antibody tests for surveillance purpose, since ICMR had recognized their utility to contain spread of coronavirus. Additional government pleader (AGP) Deepak Thakre then stated they had received 71,000 kits for distribution in the Covid-19 hotspots across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-deploy-cops-to-prevent-crowding-among-migrants/articleshow/75564450.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 6, 2020||Allahabad||Five more test Covid-19 positive in Prayagraj, tally reaches 15||PRAYAGRAJ: As many as five more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Prayagraj on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 15 so far. Two of the five patients are migrants, who came back to Prayagraj from Delhi and Bhiwandi district of Maharashtra on April 26. The remaining three infected persons are contacts of the Lukerganj-based couple, who tested positive last week. The patients were admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and SRN hospitals for treatment. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Three more members of the family of infected Lukerganj-based couple tested positive on Tuesday. The three of them include two women of around 66 and 26 years in age, and a 29-year-old man.” “Two migrants, who have been infected with the virus, are around 35 and 47 years in age and are residents of Nawabganj and Kaurihar. Both of them returned to the city on April 26 and have been quarantined in separate centres,” Sahai added. Sahai said that the 47-year-old migrant, who returned from Delhi to his native village in Nawabganj on April 27, was quarantined on April 27 at a centre. Similarly, 35-year-old migrant, who arrived city from Bhiwandi, was quarantined at a centre in Kaurihar. The samples of three members of family of the infected Lukerganj-based couple were taken on Monday while migrants’ samples were taken on Sunday. Till last week, as many as 10 coronavirus cases were reported from district. Last positive case from the city was reported three days ago. One person has recovered and others are undergoing treatment at Kotwa and SRN Hospitals in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/five-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-prayagraj-tally-reaches-15/articleshow/75566054.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||JEE-Main from July 18, NEET on July 26||NAGPUR: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) will begin from July 18, while National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) will be held on July 26. This was announced by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal during a live interaction with students on Tuesday, thus putting an end to countless speculations about the fate of the two big ticket exams in the country. For those having centre in Nagpur, the biggest takeaway will be an escape from the sweltering heat of May, which is when the paper was originally scheduled to be held. This announcement of dates also gives the first concrete hint of government’s lockdown exit plans. With over 10 lakh students appearing for each of the exams, major logistical arrangements will need to be done. Many students have centres outside their hometowns or cities. Some even choose a centre which is outside their state, due to proximity. For example, many from Madhya Pradesh border areas find it convenient to reach Nagpur rather than travel to Bhopal. Trains, buses, local autos and taxis will need to ply to ensure that students not only reach Nagpur, but also reach their exam centres. Residential hotels would be another requirement in the logistical chain as some outstation students prefer to arrive a day earlier. Logistical issues apart, for students this will be a major relief. Sameer Phale, director of a coaching institute, said, “The anxiety will now be over as the final date has come. They will get additional time to study due to the lockdown, and this is a once in a lifetime opportunity which the current batch has got. I hope Vidarbha students taken full advantage and prepare well.” Panini Telang, a coaching institute director, said, “Dates are based on assumption that situation will be under control by then, else we may see change of date again. This increase in period for preparation may give more result, but if students are still scoring less as per previous year’s pattern then it would mean that coronavirus played a negative role, in addition to that of the our education system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jee-main-from-july-18-neet-on-july-26/articleshow/75564484.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 6, 2020||Business||For the first time, India has more rural net users than urban||BENGALURU: For the first time, India has more internet users in rural areas than in urban cities. The latest report by the Internet & Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) and Nielsen showed rural India had 227 million active internet users, 10% more than urban India’s about 205 million, as of November 2019. The numbers were boosted by the cheapest internet connections in the world. In addition, there are around 71 million kids, aged 5-11 years, who go online using devices of family members. With this, India surpassed another milestone of having 504 million active internet users who are 5 years old or above — 53 million more than 451 million in March 2019. Active internet users are defined as those who use the internet at least once a month. At 40%, India lags behind US, China in internet penetrationWith 504 million active internet users who are 5 years old or above , India has become the second-largest internet user market behind China, which has about 850 million users. The United States has about 280-300 million users. India remains behind both countries in internet penetration, which stands at 40% compared to over 88% for the US and 61% for China. The report by the Internet & Mobile Association of India and Nielsen also added that the increase in female internet users was much higher at 21% as compared to 9% for males during the March-November period. It said 26 million new female users went online during this period. The potential of adding new users in the hinterland still remains “immense” in the coming few years, according to the report. The top eight metros had an internet penetration of 65% as of November 2019, compared to 63% as of March 2019. These changes can be seen on women-focused platforms like POPxo, which has seen increasing users from small towns and in local languages. Founded in 2014, the platform tried an experiment with local languages, starting with Hindi four years ago, but shut it down as it didn’t attract enough users. It started Hindi again last year, which attracts as many pageviews as English now. A majority 13 million of the 22 million average monthly pageviews are in local languages — Hindi, Marathi and Bengali — with the remaining coming in English. “Hindi users have gone up sizably for us a lot of content consumption is happening over Instagram as compared to Facebook. There is a surge in live video as well,” said POPxo CEO Priyanka Gill, adding that proportion of users from tier-1 markets has fallen to 35% now from 59% in 2018 while tier-2 and 3 markets have increased from 41% to 65% in the same period. At a state level, the national capital territory of Delhi registered the highest internet penetration followed by Kerala, J&K, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Punjab. Among the metro cities, Mumbai has the highest internet population of 13 million, a growth of 12%. Delhi had 11.3 million while Bengaluru had 6.6 million along with 6.2 million in Kolkata and 6 million in Chennai. While the data is from November, the trend is now expected to accelerate. The time spent by Indians on smartphones increased by 24% to 4.3 hours per day in March, driven primarily by the lockdown, according to data from analytics firm App Annie of Android phones. It was 3.5 hours a day on average in 2019. During the lockdown, consumers have spent increasing time on mobile games like PUBG, social networks like TikTok and Facebook, besides using video-chatting applications like Zoom for interacting with friends and family, for office work and for online cl asses. India also saw the biggest jump in video consumption, of 40%, to over 2.9 billion hours during the week starting March 22 as compared to the last week of December 2019, when it was 2.1 billion hours. Indonesia saw a jump of just 15%, according to App Annie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/for-the-first-time-india-has-more-rural-net-users-than-urban/articleshow/75566025.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Priest solemnizes marriage on video call amid lockdown||Nagpur: A Buddhist priest solemnized a marriage through video call at Dharampeth on Tuesday, setting a unique example amid lockdown. The marriage was made possible by Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, who granted the groom permission to travel from Lava in Wadi for completing the rituals.Sonu Awale, 32, tied the knot with Shalaka Bahadure, 28, with blessings from Bhante Bodhiratna, the priest who chanted the sacred verses on a video call made from his vihara (Buddhist monastery). The marriage was completed within 20 minutes with the groom’s mother, bride’s parents and her two family members. The family maintained social distancing norms too and refrained from inviting guests. The groom is now contemplating a feast for 500 needy people with the money saved from the truncated marriage ceremony, which had to be kept at a bare minimum.The only son of his family, bank employee Awale had to abandon his grand plan and settle for an austere ceremony in the ongoing lockdown to fulfil the dream of his bed-ridden father, who had suffered a paralytic attack last year. Four of his elder sisters were married, but the father wished to see his youngest son getting hitched too. Awale had made up his mind to enter into wedlock with Shalaka, an accountant, in September last year. The marriage plan had to be abandoned due to the lockdown. Apprehensive about his father’s health, Awale had applied for permission with the police department in April but it was rejected. He was finally helped by Zonal DCP Masaal, who summoned Awale at Wadi police station and approved his application. “The DCP issued me a pass within 30 minutes after hearing my plight, following which I decided to follow his conditions to the letter,” he said.Awale said he wanted to take the priest along, but only two persons could travel in the car apart from the driver, as per the lockdown norms. “I took my mother with me and reached Shalaka’s place. She too had invited only two guests apart from her parents,” he said. “I had requested my friend to reach the vihara and make a video call from there to facilitate the priest’s conducting of the ceremony. We projected the video call on the television at the bride’s place, which also gave an amplified sound,” said Awale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/priest-solemnizes-marriage-on-video-call-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75564509.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Sexual assault chat: Delhi cops zero in on 10 boys in three online groups||NEW DELHI: Investigations into a series of conversations on Instagram between an alleged group of school students who threaten to sexually assault a classmate and speak of uploading her photographs online have revealed that some minors created another group after the screenshots of the first one were shared on social media. Delhi Police have identified the administrator of the group and nine other students. They hail from Delhi and Noida and are being quizzed. Another student who was a member of the group and had taken part in the sex chats — the screenshots had been shared widely on Twitter on Monday and #boyslockerroom was a top trend — released an audio apologising to his female classmates. Sources stated two groups were created on Instagram and one on Snapchat. Sex-assault chat: 10 phones seizedOne of the students who was actively involved in the conversations released an audio message apologising to the girls. “I was associated with the group called the locker room where a lot of my friends were just having some fun, but I am truly ashamed of whatever I did and in no way I’m going to defend myself. I just want to apologise to every single girl. I am really sorry. I don’t know what was going in my mind, but I am truly sorry for whatever I did. I know I shouldn’t have done it, but I am really scared right now,” he said. Meanwhile, police have identified the administrator of the group, who was picked up from Noida. His age is being verified. ‘Bois Locker Room’ was being used by the participants to share obscene messages and morphed pictures. “Instagram has been asked to provide the details of the alleged accounts. As of now, about 10 members have been identified. The minor members are being dealt with as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice Act,” Anil Mittal, Delhi Police additional PRO, said. TOI spoke to a friend of a survivor who revealed the boys had made two groups. “My friend featured in the conversation on the group where the boys were explicitly talking about her. She received the screenshots through someone and shared them with me. More girls who were spoken about are being threatened now,” he added. A source said that out of the 10 boys, four were major, but were not in college. So far, the students identified are residents of Delhi and Noida. Ten mobile phones have been seized. All students they spoke to accepted forming the group, the source claimed. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “The women who came out to complain about these boys are very brave and should not feel unsafe because we are all with them through this.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch 'Delhi Locker Group': Cops file case for sex assault chat online||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sexual-assault-chat-delhi-cops-zero-in-on-10-boys-in-three-online-groups/articleshow/75566090.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Stigmatizing Covid will undermine efforts to check it’||Social stigma associated with Covid-19 has been an issue as alarming and grave as the virus itself. A surge in incidents of violence against doctors, racial prejudices against north-eastern citizens, demonization of certain communities, and healthcare workers being falsely blamed as carriers of virus are some outcomes of this stigma. Dr Sonakshi Jyrwa, assistant professor at Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS, Nagpur, speaks about those: Why is so much stigma around Covid-19 in spite of so many information channels?As the virus is new; the course, treatment, and outcome are by and large unknown. Uncertainty and fear of the ‘unknown’ are perfect breeding grounds for assumptions and speculations. This behaviour is not new. Infectious diseases share a long history of stigmatization.  How serious is the issue in relation to Covid-19?Stigma hurts everyone by fostering fear and animosity towards fellow citizens. Recent reports of mental health issues and suicide among Covid-19 patients, healthcare workers and migrant populations are concerning. Such discriminatory behaviour is harmful to community. It prevents those with the disease from seeking care. People are fearful of disclosing symptoms for fear of being socially shunned. This will undermine efforts of our country to check the spread of Covid-19.  How to address this at individual and social level?Stigma can only be addressed if talked about openly. We are not granted immunity by virtue of our age, caste, sexual identity, religion, economic status or race. The virus can affect anyone. Precautionary measures minimize risk of acquiring infection, but in case one gets infected, it is not the fault or choice of the individual. We must stop thinking that people who have fallen ill are due to their own wrong and they deserve it. On social level, stringent measures to curb rumour-mongering and prompt action against hate crimes are necessary. Against this backdrop, what must people do?Communication is the key. We must choose our words wisely and carefully. As responsible citizens, we must avoid using racial or dehumanizing terminology like ‘Chinese virus’, ‘Infected cases’ or people ‘transmitting Covid-19’ or ‘spreading the virus’. Always seek information from reliable sources and verify facts before sharing. “Corona Warriors” such as healthcare professionals, sanitation workers, police, etc are working tirelessly and selflessly in the field. They and their families deserve our full support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stigmatizing-covid-will-undermine-efforts-to-check-it/articleshow/75564568.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Hit hard by virus, Mumbai slums see 60% of Covid deaths||MUMBAI: The sudden discovery of over 50 Covid-19 cases in a slum in Mulund, which had been a low-transmission zone, is an indicator of how rapidly the novel coronavirus can enter and run through the slum pockets of the city, say BMC officials. Of the 1,927 containment zones marked in the city at the start of the week, 80% were in congested places like slums or chawls. A BMC survey conducted in the last week of April found that 60% of the deaths in the city had occurred in slums and slum-like areas. As many as 641 of the containment zones were red zones with active outbreaks while 502 were orange zones, where the infection was on the way to getting under control. Dharavi, one of the red zones, is the worst-hit slum pockets with 632 cases. An emerging concern is the Mankhurd-to-Shivaji-Nagar belt, an area which is 100% slums, in M-East ward. Of the 460 cases and 51 deaths in MEast, the stretch from Mankhurd to Shivaji Nagar accounts for 60% of the cases. Local corporator Rukhsana Siddiqui said social distancing was an alien concept in jam-packed localities like Baiganwadi. “These poor people managed a hand-to-mouth existence. How long can they stay holed up in their 10-by-10 homes? They step out looking for people giving food to feed their hungry children,” she said. Former Tree Authority member Abhijit Chavan, who lives in Mulund, said the emergence of 40 positive cases in the Indira Nagar slum on Monday was an indicator of people’s desperation. “People living here work as house help and are jobless due to the lockdown,” he said. Many had been visiting wholesale markets set up at the Mulund octroi naka to buy vegetables that they could sell to earn some money. “Chances of them bringing the infection was higher and that’s what happened,” he said. Slums in posh areas such as Cuffe Parade are no better. Fifty cases were reported from Ganeshmurthi Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar and Geeta Nagar, which jointly have a population of 50,000. Local corporator Harsita Narwekar said 25 of the cases were from Ganeshmurthi Nagar. One of the index cases there worked in a five-star hotel in the locality. Narwekar said the bigger problem is inadequate testing. “Those showing only one or two symptoms are not being tested. Their high-risk contacts are thus not being identified or isolated, leading to a spread,” Narwekar said. In the western suburbs, Andheri Juhu Galli, Nehru Nagar and Gilbert Hill saw a sharp spike in cases. In Nehru Nagar, a highly congested cluster with 35,000 population, 76 cases, including five deaths, were reported. Many of the residents work in plush homes in the JVPD Scheme. As their own homes are small and hot in the summer, many sit outside, said local corporator Renu Hansraj. “People here use community toilets, the biggest source for the spread of infection,” she said. Officials said the percentage of positive cases in slums was rising. “It is passe to expect a Covid-19 patient to be one with a foreign travel history,” a BMC official said. There was a sharp rise in cases in slums in Kurla, Chunnabatti and Saki Naka in ‘L’ ward, which saw 30 deaths. A corporator, who did not wish to be identified, said many step out in the evening in the ongoing Ramzan month. Dharavi reports 33 +ve tests, tally touches 665; Mahim adds 9 casesDharavi reported 33 new Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in the area stood at 665, which included 20 deaths. Most of the new cases were from Ninety Feet Road, Indira Nagar, New Municipal Chawl, Social Nagar, Mukund Nagar and Madina Nagar. The BMC readied 1,000 more beds at Manohar Joshi Vidyalaya in Dharavi. Mahim reported nine positive cases, taking the total there to 80. Dadar reported two new cases, from Ram Maruti Road and Padmabai Thakkar Marg, taking the total to 56.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hit-hard-by-virus-mumbai-slums-see-60-of-covid-deaths/articleshow/75566104.cms||Richa Pinto
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||BEST's daily count of Covid positive cases peaks at 9 on Tuesday||MUMBAI: Nine BEST staffers tested positive for corona virus on Tuesday-the highest score for a day so far, taking the total number of positive cases to 49. Of the new cases, six are drivers and conductors, two from the power supply division and one is a bus maintenance staffer. Two other employees recovered and were discharged from hospital on Tuesday, officials said. The BEST has fitted seven buses of its fleet with a curtain partition on buses to separate commuters on board from its driver and conductor. A plastic sheet serving as a division has been put up in these buses such that the driver and conductor will be in the front portion. Three other BEST employees have succumbed. In all, 35 patients are now "active", of whom 12 have been currently quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bests-daily-count-of-covid-positive-cases-peaks-at-9-on-tuesday/articleshow/75566106.cms||Somit Sen
May 6, 2020||Nagpur||Students of IIM-Nagpur retain job offers||NAGPUR: Organizations around the world, including educational institutions, are working to fend off the repercussions of Covid-19 and the indefinite lockdown it has caused. In such a scenario, the Career Development Services (CDS) office at Indian Institute of Management Nagpur (IIM-N) has ensured both the first and second-year students in its flagship two-year Post Graduate Programme (PGP) in Management retain their summer internship and final placement offers, respectively. All students of the PGP Batch of 2019-21 had received summer placement offers and the process was declared closed on January 29, the premier B-school informed in a press release. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, some of these offers had to be rescinded, owing to the nature of these projects that involved, for instance, intensive fieldwork or interpersonal interaction. However, the proactive approach of the CDS team ensured no student lost the opportunity to undergo an internship, and well within time, these students received offers from other companies. The summer internship being an essential part of the PGP curriculum that promises exposure to organizational functioning, it was ensured the prevailing situation did not hamper the learning. As on date, all students have begun their internships on a work-from-home basis. As geography is no longer a limitation, several students are working on more than one project. The internship period remains as eight weeks, as has been stipulated and conducted for all previous batches. For the second consecutive year, IIM-N became the first of the new-generation IIMs to report 100% placement for the Batch of 2018-20 in its final placement season, which was closed around the end of February 2020. All the offers made to the students are intact. The CDS team has been in constant touch with the recruiters, who have assured that the offers will be honoured. Students typically join their organizations between mid-May and early June every year. While some organizations have deferred the joining date by a few weeks owing to the lockdown, several others have begun documentation and background verification process for the new recruits. “The institute is positive that with the support of the partner organizations and recruiters, the present situation will be overcome to serve the best interests of the students and further their learning and careers,” IIM-N stated in a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-of-iim-n-retain-job-offers/articleshow/75564604.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Bengaluru||You’ll get work, says BSY, urges migrants to stay back||BENGALURU: For the second time in five days, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday appealed to stranded migrant labourers to not leave for their hometowns, while assuring them of “work, ration and financial aid”, reports Sandeep Moudgal. “I appeal to labourers with folded hands: Don’t pay heed to speculations. It’s the government’s responsibility to see that you get work at the place you were working… Stay here and work,” he said. The CM’s appeal on Tuesday comes after some builders met him and complained of severe shortage of workers. Sources said, at a latenight meeting on Monday, the CM took some officials to task for sending back labourers. “Apart from free rations, we will provide up to Rs 2,000 to each labourer so that they can access nutritious food,” a government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youll-get-work-says-bsy-urges-migrants-to-stay-back/articleshow/75566047.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
May 6, 2020||Mumbai||Delhi doctor gives Powai family nod for test through app||MUMBAI: Sitting in a dental-cum-polyclinic in Delhi's Mehrauli, a physician wrote a prescription for Covid-19 tests to be carried out for a family of seven in Powai, allegedly after cursorily hearing their symptoms over the phone. The incident raised the civic body's hackles and is said to have prompted the decision to link each civic ward to designated laboratories so that tests can't be ordered from anywhere. BMC also told laboratories to stop processing samples received through the testing aggregator KlinicApp, which facilitated the prescription for the Powai family. To curb misuse of testing resources, authorities from L ward, which includes Kurla and is among the top five affected areas in the city, circulated a letter that any doctor advising a Covid-19 test without physical examination may face a police FIR. The Powai family told TOI that after one of the sons, a security guard at Asian Heart Institute (BKC), tested positive, they all wanted to get tested. But doctors at Bal Thackeray Trauma Care Hospital (Jogeshwari) said none had symptoms and did not qualify for the swab test. "I have elderly parents and two young children, and we share a small house. I was anxious to get tested as I had an inkling we could be positive," he said. The man said after SRL refused to test without a prescription, he went to KlinicApp to book tests for seven, paying Rs 4,500 for each. "I spoke to the doctor in Delhi, who directly sent the prescription. I never saw it," he said.  TOI has a copy, which says on the letterhead Dr Shabnam Polyclinic and Diagnostic Sample Collection Centre & Best Dental Clinic. The prescription says the test has been advised for security reasons as the man lived with a positive patient. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines state that high-risk contacts should be tested only if they have symptoms, or within 5-14 days of the quarantine period. KlinicApp sent the samples to Thane-based Vaidya Lab. "We only received the samples from KlinicApp along with a prescription. We have now stopped testing samples from the app," said Kiran Gosavi, CEO of the lab. But the family questioned BMC's testing policy as four of the seven family members tested positive and are hospitalised. "The civic body should make testing more easily available. Had we not tested, we could have spread the infection to many more," the man said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-doctor-gives-powai-family-nod-for-test-through-app/articleshow/75566124.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi constable kills wife, also a cop, in car after quarrel||NEW DELHI: A policeman from the city’s anti-terror unit is untraceable after allegedly killing his wife — also a cop — in South Delhi’s Lodhi Colony on Monday night. The body of Renu Malik (32), a constable on Covid-19 duty, was found in an abandoned car parked by a garbage dump near the office of the special cell and Lodhi Colony police station on Tuesday morning. Renu had a gunshot wound and some blunt force injuries as well. A spent cartridge of 9mm bore was found beside her body. Though police suspect her husband, Manoj Kumar, a head constable, shot her from point blank following a quarrel, the exact cause of her death will be ascertained after autopsy, police said. As usual, Manoj stepped out of the special cell office on Monday evening. He reportedly called up a colleague later at night and borrowed his car, saying Renu had met with an accident. Police couple was involved in regular tiffsManoj then met his wife and got into an altercation, police have learnt. It is at this juncture he is believed to have pulled the trigger. A police patrol team spotted the abandoned car in the morning, but it’s being probed as to how the patrol cops from the area didn't notice a suspicious car and the body throughout the night. Manoj was a divorcee and had married Renu recently after having an affair with her for the past 10 years. However, all was not well between them as they started having frequent fights, police have been told. Lately she had moved out of Manoj’s residence in northwest Delhi and was staying with a relative in Bawana. Renu’s family members have told the police that Manoj had called her on Monday to resolve the issues. An FIR under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code has been registered and teams have been formed to trace Manoj. The special cell cops are also assisting the south district police as Manoj, they feared, could be difficult to catch. “Having known all tricks of the trade by being in the special cell, he knows how to hoodwink cops. He was in inspector Kailash Bisht’s team and the unit is trying to track his movements. He is known to have gone towards Meerut,” a source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-constable-kills-wife-also-a-cop-in-car-after-quarrel/articleshow/75566121.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal jute faces pest attack threat, warn scientists||Kolkata: Scientists at India’s leading jute research institute in Barrackpore have sounded the alarm bell on pest attack destroying jute crops that could further aggravate the crisis that looms over rural Bengal owing to the supply-chain disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 15-20% of the crop is under threat, the scientists estimate. Nearly 7 lakh farmers in the country and 50 lakh people are directly or indirectly dependent on the golden fibre for their livelihood. A big chunk of them are in Bengal, the largest jute producing state in the country. “Jute farmers have sowed the crop in more than 90% areas. Now, in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis, this year’s fickle weather is a cause for concern about the crop’s healthy development. It has been overcast and there have been a lot of showers. And these conditions make the jute crop vulnerable to being infested by pests and diseases,” sad Gouranga Kar, director of Barrackpore-based Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fibres (CRIJAF) under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the apex body for coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture. Around 12.5 lakh acre is under jute cultivation in Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Nadia, North 24 Parganas and Hooghly. The state produces around 75-80 lakh bales of jute annually. Jute gunny bags are essential for movement of commodities. “At present, the jute crop in different parts of the state is 20-50 days old. Due to heavy rain in some pockets of Bengal and adjoining states, the jute fields are waterlogged. Farmers need to immediately drain out the water. After a few days, there can be incidence of seedling blight and damping off, necessitating the need for fungicide application,” Kar warned. Though ICAR-CRIJAF is issuing weekly agro-advisories on a priority basis, scientists aren’t sure they are reaching the farmers. With the lockdown restricting movement and many farmers not quite conversant with digital platforms, there is a worry that lack of guidance could adversely affect a section of the crop, deepening the financial crisis in rural Bengal. Subrata Satpathy, principal scientist and head of the crop protection division at the institute, said many farmers were struggling with attacks from indigo caterpillar, hairy caterpillar, grey coloured weevil and yellow mite. “From weakening the plant base to defoliation, the pests can do a lot of damage to the cash crop. Use of pesticides in measured quantity can combat the situation, but urgent action is required,” said Satpathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-jute-faces-pest-attack-threat-warn-scientists/articleshow/75565421.cms||---
May 6, 2020||Ranchi||City admin launches maternity helpline no. to help pregnant women||RANCHI: After several reports of pregnant women not getting timely medical aid and suffering miscarriages during the lockdown came to light, the Ranchi district administration launched a maternity helpline number, 9110041397, to attend to their exigencies. On Sunday, the wife of a city-based photojournalist of a local daily suffered miscarriage after she failed to get timely admission at government and private hospitals despite running from pillar to post. During a press briefing at the Project Building on the incident, chief minister Hemant Soren assured reporters on Monday that action will be taken against erring officials for the lapses. Soren also said the newly launched number is dedicated to help pregnant women. On Tuesday, the Jharkhand high court, too, asked the state government on the steps it is taking up to address concerns of such patients who are struggle for timely medical care when not many private hospitals are operating and the entire government medical healthcare is primarily engaged in the fight against Covid-19. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Ranchi DPRO Prabhat Shankar said the helpline number has become functional. “The helpline number has already started receiving calls and personnel manning the number are coordinating with respective hospitals to ensure timely help to pregnant women. The number of calls are high from day one, but majority is mostly related to various enquiries.” Detailing on the nature of calls received, another district official said, “We have received about 110 calls since last (Monday) night, of which majority calls are about enquiries for places to get Covid-19 tests, providing information about their check-up dates and queries on healthcare centres to avail ultrasound facilities among others.” He added, “We have received only three emergency case calls so far, including two from Hindpiri area, a containment zone in Ranchi. The Hindpiri callers were facing issues in getting ultrasound done. We had coordinated their tests at Anjuman Islamia and it was successful. The third case was related to non-admission by any private hospital for delivery. We ensured that the woman is admitted in Rims.” The officials, however, appealed people to not unnecessarily flood the helpline for trivial reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/city-admin-launches-maternity-helpline-no-to-help-pregnant-women/articleshow/75563064.cms||ASRP Mukesh
