May 7, 2020||Kolkata||RWAs behaving like hostel wardens, say angry residents of Kolkata||Ever since the lockdown started, the flat owners and the Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) have been constantly at loggerheads. From issuing strict advisories in favour of social distancing to stopping service providers from entering the premises, the RWAs of various residential complexes are sometimes taking extreme measures, much to the residents’ dislike and discomfort. Also, the biggest challenge for the residents of these housing complexes now is getting supply of essential items like groceries, medicines and emergency services like plumbers, electricians, car wash and pet care. Though most of the rules are justified and meant for the residents’ safety, these restrictions and too much monitoring have earned them names like class monitors, hostel wardens, spies and what not! A member of RWA, from a residential complex at Netaji Nagar, informed that they have asked the security guards not to let anyone enter the premises. “We are keeping a close watch. Even the security guards are not allowed to step out for as long as the lockdown continues. We want our people to be safe and healthy. Then why should we be criticised for it? We have told the residents that if they go out for unnecessary work, we will take strict actions. We are taking care of the security guards too — providing them with all the things they require. If elderly citizens need help, we allow a nurse or a domestic help. But once they enter the premises, they can’t leave till the lockdown is lifted,” he shared. Despite knowing that newspapers don’t spread coronavirus, many RWAs banned distribution at various complexes. Priya Dutta, a resident of Salt Lake, Sector III, rued, “Our RWA stopped newspaper distribution in the society for the longest time, as most of these vendors came from the nearby slum. They gave us the same excuse for domestic helps. There are valid reasons why residents are protesting. Some buildings here have no lifts. There are several elderly people who live here. Since RWA is not allowing delivery guys, how is it possible for them to go and get all their necessary household items from the main gate and climb stairs? Our food items just lie on the road till we collect.” Online delivery boys from various e-commerce stores have their own set of complaints. They are now refusing to deliver heavy items if their vehicles are not allowed to park inside the premises. ‘Why do you want to go out?’At a prominent residencial complex in Chak Garia, the RWA issued a notice that vendors can come in only at a particular time of the day. “Whatever we are doing is in the best interest of the residents. You will find everything inside the complex, be it medicines, groceries, meat, fish, milk etc. So, why go out unnecessarily? Recently, someone requested me if he could bring his wife back from Jharkhand, who is stuck there. Another flat owner requested if he could invite his parents amid the lockdown. We couldn’t have allowed that. We also noticed some residents happily going to the terrace every evening for chit chats. So, we were forced to lock the terrace gate. We have not stopped those in essential services going out for work,” informed Debasish Sarkar, secretary of the complex. Now that clubs and gyms are shut, fitness enthusiasts are obviously unhappy. “Youngsters are frustrated and want to step out at times. But they are all intelligent people. As for food and other essential stuff, everything is available inside our campus. Ever since a COVID-19 case was reported, we have been strictly following the norms. But yes, opinions vary. There have been arguments too, but we have to deal with it,” said Sudipto Mitra, resident of a complex in Karunamoyee, Tollygunge. No food or newspapers, ‘We are tired of RWA’s restrictions’Ranjan Bose, resident of a complex in Netaji Nagar, is annoyed with the way the RWA has been functioning for the last one month. “We are having a tough time without the domestic help coming in. When I requested the committee to allow them, they simply refused. Even the newspaper and milk delivery man have been asked to wait near the main gate. We have to walk all the way to the main gate to get the food we order online. I have expressed my grievances on the all-members Whatsapp group. And not just me, there are many other residents, who have threatened to take legal actions against the RWA. They are acting like class monitors in this lockdown, nobody can come in or go out without their permission, and the society’s guards are following their orders to the hilt,” he said. On condition of anonymity, a flat owner from a residential complex in Tollygunge, shared. “I had been following up with the RWA for quite some time now. After much persuasion, we can now call electricians and plumbers. But domestic helps are still not allowed entry inside the premises. It is very difficult to sustain without their help for so long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rwas-behaving-like-hostel-wardens-say-angry-residents-of-kolkata/articleshow/75581151.cms||Jaya Biswas
May 7, 2020||Bengaluru||The lockdown has brought the F&B industry to the brink of an existential crisis: Manu Chandra||First there was panic surrounding the coronavirus pandemic, with people gradually shunning public spaces like restaurants, hotels, pubs, etc., and then came the nation-wide lockdown that almost brought the F&B industry to a screeching halt. As lockdown norms continue to be eased across the country, we speak to Manu Chandra, the head of the Bengaluru chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), about the impact so far and the way ahead. How badly has the F&B industry suffered due to the lockdown?At the moment, it is hard to gauge the kind of losses we will incur in absolute Rupee terms. But it is staggering. We are a 50 billion dollar per year industry across the country and at present we are compromised by at least around 15-20% of that. It is substantial enough to create an existential crisis within the industry, as it is a business that works on a deferred payment model. With the kind of debts currently, it will be hard to service that amount, unless we have some level of revenue coming in. How hard is it to keep the morale up for your workers?It is tough times for us as a business, industry and as employers. We are a very large industry in terms of employment. We are probably the second largest employer of human capital after agriculture. To be able to give them confidence that we are not abandoning them and that we are trying to tide this over together is the important message. We encouraged people to cash out EPF when the order came about, to ensure there is cash flow in hand. Keeping up morale for people who are active and who cannot work from home is very difficult. We are a brick and mortar business that is into food provision, so we cannot work from home. If we are not on the job, it is difficult, as there is no activity they can do at home. Some of our senior chefs in the company can definitely be more active on social media and continue to stay relevant and connected to the consumer. We've been doing that, but that doesn't really translate into what someone lower down the order can do. It is frustrating and we are trying to wait it out. What will it take to get customers to return once operations resume?This lockdown is a reality check. It is not going to drive the discounting deeper. What had happened, and I understand that consumers were at a win-win situation, was that there were a lot of players in the market who were getting funding to market themselves as the best player. This funding was channelled into very heavy discounting. The cheap booze and food available for consumers across the country was being footed by somebody else. The way the economic paradigm stands now, all that is going to vanish. So, the fair price that is to be paid is going to emerge. Unless it is a very desperate business that requires undercutting to attract consumers, I don't see it happening. I actually see a rising of prices. This inflationary trend is connected in more ways than one. When the lockdown kicked in, it was the peak harvest season for the ragi crop. But the migrant labour that harvests the crop suddenly disappeared and went to their hometowns. What happens to the crop that lies there? By the time the government directed that agricultural activities could continue, it was late. These are perishables. So, supply chains got hit very hard. I don't think we are going to open at a best case scenario. We will be meandering through a lot of these impediments into getting back to smooth operations. A lot of us will not have our workforce available as well, since they have fled to their respective hometowns. It is not going to be a return to normalcy. It will take a while. And it will not be a cheaper paradigm either. Will dining out become a secondary option, as people, especially millennials, have learnt to cook special meals at home?As an activity, a lot of people have discovered that it is very therapeutic and rewarding. I love the fact that people are cooking and sending food across to different people's homes. The gifting is actually through food now. A lot of recipes are floating around and people are trying them out. I think this is a trend that needs to continue and it will correct some anomalies in the food space. There were places that were selling bread and jam and it was their USP - that is barely what one needs to go out and eat. We had got to a point where almost everything was driven by availability and choice. There will a bit of correction with regard to that. The race down to the bottom may be rectified and as a good restaurant ecosystem should be - good quality products and produce and honest, high-quality cooking and good talent are what are going to be celebrated. Watch Manu Chandra on the effect of lockdown on F&B industry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-lockdown-has-brought-the-fb-industry-to-the-brink-of-an-existential-crisis-manu-chandra/articleshow/75581635.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 7, 2020||India||Ensure adequate quarantine facilities in place to accommodate Indians returning from abroad: MHA to states||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Wednesday requested all states and Union territories where stranded Indians will be arriving from various countries starting Thursday, to make advance preparations for arranging adequate number of institutional quarantine facilities to accommodate the passengers immediately on their return. "Action taken on these arrangements made may please be sent to MHA & MEA,” Home Secretary said in a letter sent to all chief secretaries. The list of passengers wiII be shared by the ministry of external affairs with the respective states/UTs before their arrival. The home ministry had on Tuesday issued standard operating procedures to be followed by the states/UTs for movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country in view of restrictions on international travel due to Covid-19. As per the SOP, all stranded Indian nationals to be brought to India, on their arrival, will mandatorily be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities to be arranged by respective state/UT governments. It is also mentioned that as far as possible, these facilities are to be arranged at the district headquarters of the districts to which the arriving passengers belong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ensure-adequate-quarantine-facilities-in-place-to-accommodate-indians-returning-from-abroad-mha-to-states/articleshow/75586156.cms||Bharti Jain
May 7, 2020||Patna||CPI loses its presence in Bihar legislature following retirement of its last two members from state council||PATNA: Once having strong political dominance in many parts of Bihar, the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Wednesday lost its last presence in the state legislature after its both MLCs retired from the state legislative council. The party had two members—Kedar Nath Pandey and Sanjay Kumar Singh in the upper house. Both had won the Council biennial polls from Saran and Tirhut teachers’ constituencies, respectively, in 2014. Both completed their six year term in the council on Wednesday and retired from the upper house along with other 15 members. This came as an end of the last presence of the CPI in the council and also in the state’s bicameral legislature. The party, at present, has no member in the state legislative council. It had contested 98, out of total 243 seats, in 2015 assembly elections, but could not register victory even on a single seat. After 1972 assembly elections in the state, the CPI had altogether 35 members in the state assembly and it was the largest opposition party in Bihar. “Our leader Sunil Mukherjee also held the post of leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly,” CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh told TOI on Wednesday. The CPI had won only one seat –Begusarai district’s Bachhwara- in 2010 assembly seat. But the party lost its presence in the state assembly in 2015 when it lost all 98 seats it contested that year. Asked for reaction on his party losing its ground in the state legislature, the CPI state secretary Singh said his party would contest the forthcoming biennial council polls from all four teachers’ constituencies and make its best efforts to gain the lost ground. “The party has decided to contest the council polls from Saran, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Patna teachers’ constituencies,” Singh said adding the party would try to win all four seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpi-loses-its-presence-in-bihar-legislature-following-retirement-of-its-last-two-members-from-state-council/articleshow/75586760.cms||Madan Kumar
May 7, 2020||Amaravati||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to convene first ever 'video-conference' supported board meeting on May 28||TIRUPATI: Even as uncertainty continues as to when the doors of the world renowned Lord Venkteswara temple would reopen for pilgrim's worship, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board, which manages the affairs of the richest temple body in the country, will hold its first ever "video-conference" supported board meeting on May 28. Owing to the restrictions in place because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, TTD trust board members located across the country will join the trust board meeting on May 28 through video-conference. It may be recalled that the doors of the Tirumala temple and 50 odd TTD temples across the country were closed for pilgrim worship on March 20 to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus at the places of worship. Though the temple body resumed its administrative affairs on Monday, there are a number of core issues, including major financial decisions, that need to be reviewed by the TTD trust board in view of a prolonged closure of the Tirumala temple for pilgrim worship. TTD sources said that the finance committee of the temple body will first hold a review meet at Tirumala on Thursday to have a closer relook at its finances and expenditure columns in the wake of revenues for the Tirumala temple going rock-bottom, while the expenditure continues to remain the same. Following Thursday's meet, the recommendations of the finance committee will be forwarded to the TTD trust board which will take a final call on the recommendations during the trust board meeting to be held through video-conference on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-to-convene-first-ever-video-conference-supported-board-meeting-on-may-28/articleshow/75587152.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 7, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Covid-19 victim’s funeral shifted to ghat after protest||PRAYAGRAJ: The district administration had to shift a 47-year-old civil engineer’s funeral, who died of Covid-19 (novel coronavirus), from an electronic crematorium to Phaphamu Ghat on Wednesday, following protests from residents of Shankarghat, Teliyarganj and adjoining areas. Prayagraj reported its first Covid-19 casualty when a Lukerganj-based man, who tested positive for the virus on May 1, died on Tuesday night in Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital’s isolation ward. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “ Initially, the victim was to be cremated at the electric cremation in Shankarghat. However, as residents of Shankarghat, Teliyarganj and adjoining areas came to know about the cremation, they started protesting. They were led by a corporator and started pressuring officials to not cremate the man in Shankarghat, as it had been declared a novel coronavirus hotspot.” In April last week, a 37-year-old resident of Shankarghat tested positive for Covid-19. He had travelled along with a patient in a train coach in March first week. He is currently undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa. “Later, the civil engineer was cremated at Phaphamau Ghat around 2 pm. Apart from administrative, police and health officials, five members of his family were also present there. The cremation was also video-graphed,” said Sahai. After being diagnosed with the disease on May 1, the engineer was initially admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital and was later shifted to SRN Hospital on May 3. Health department officials said that the patient was also suffering from hypertension and he was put on ventilator support after his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. His wife, mother in -law and two other family members also tested Covid-19 positive last week. Doctors said that the man was responding to the treatment, but his condition became critical late Tuesday night. His wife (37 years) was first taken to the special hospital set up for Covid-19 patients in Kotwa and was later shifted to SRN Hospital’s isolation ward. Doctors said her condition was stable. Meanwhile, the locality where the man lived in Lukerganj was sealed by the district administration and officials are looking for suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-covid-19-victims-funeral-shifted-to-ghat-after-protest/articleshow/75587575.cms||Kapil Dixit
May 7, 2020||India||Covid-19: Doubling time worsens to 11 days as active cases spurt||NEW DELHI: The number of active Covid-19 cases are growing faster at 6.6% now, leading to a shorter doubling time of 11 days, as compared to 15 days on May 2 when the growth rate for such cases was 4.8%, data analysis by economist Shamika Ravi, earlier part of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, shows. Ravi tweets daily updates on her statistical analysis, which are widely followed on social media and her slides have on occasions been used by the government as well. The trend is driven by rising concerns regarding states like Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu where the infection is at worrying levels, mortality rates are increasing and there is no specific strategy for contact-tracing and testing, Ravi says. Pointing to varying rates of testing, Shamika said in Kerala's Kasargod district when 100 people came out positive, 20,000 samples were tested while in Mumbai 6,000 samples were tested against 100 positive cases. According to her, there is a big second wave in several states with growing concerns in Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, along with Maharashtra where the case load is alarmingly high. "It is a combination of containment, contact-tracing and testing that will help flatten the curve. If containment and contact-tracing is poor, active cases will keep rising. States have to formulate a strategy and ensure it is strictly implemented," she said. So far, the government has said the doubling rate is rising with the figures taken for all cases and not only active ones as in Ravi's analysis. "Maharashtra is failing very badly and I am afraid that it will impact the national average," Ravi said, underlining that states will have to focus on contact-tracing and identify people who might have been infected through positive cases and ensure clinical management to control a wider spread. During April 25 to May 5, the national Covid-19 death rate per million was 1.31, whereas both Maharashtra and Gujarat have more than 5, according to Ravi’s analysis. The health ministry, too, has raised concerns about some states not doing adequate surveillance, contact-tracing and reporting of positive cases, leading to a delay in clinical management and rising number of deaths. The Centre has also sent public health teams to 20 districts to ensure such gaps are addressed. Watch Covid-19: Doubling time worsens to 11 days as active cases shoot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-doubling-time-worsens-to-11-days-as-active-cases-spurt/articleshow/75587576.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 7, 2020||Goa||AIFF technical committee likely to suggest new foreign player rules||PANAJI: The technical committee of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) will meet on Friday and possibly recommend reduction in the number of foreign players in both Indian Super League (ISL) and I-League. The two leagues allow use of five foreign players. Most experts, including national coach Igor Stimac, have made it clear that there are too many foreign players in India. But while at least in the ISL it may be late to implement the continentally-approved idea of 3+1 (three foreigners and one Asian) rule for next season since clubs have made signings, some members of the technical committee believe it will be good to start the foreign policy in I-League for the 2020-21 season. “The ISL started well with marquee players and all that glamour to grab attention but it’s now a serious league. It’s a top-tier league approved by Asian Football Confederation. We must adopt the best practices and policies recommended by AFC. “In India, the focus should be on quality, rather than quantity. Everyone will learn and progress if we have good foreign players. We can’t say we have quality at the moment,” said a member of the technical committee. The technical committee is also likely to recommend reserving a slot for either Person of Indian Origin (PIO) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI), a move clearly aimed at having a closer look at some of the players who have shown interest in representing the national team. Besides a review of the team performances, the technical committee will discuss the way forward in times of the coronavirus pandemic that has brought the world to a standstill. The senior national team, for example, was scheduled to train in Turkey this month but had to shelve plans due to the pandemic. “We have to see how best our national teams can start training again. Will the government allow camps, if we take adequate precautions? Another concern is our grassroots programme. How do we keep the kids interested in times like these when parents may be scared to send them out? We have to come up with some innovations,” said another member. The technical committee is led by former international and coach Shyam Thapa, while former India goalkeeper Henry Menezes is the vice chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiff-technical-committee-likely-to-suggest-new-foreign-player-rules/articleshow/75587596.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 7, 2020||Allahabad||Experts suggest to follow precaution, coronavirus has different life span on different surfaces||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when Covid-19 pandemic is making people apprehensive about ways to protect themselves, TOI speaks to number of experts on the issue of behaviour of the dreaded virus and its life-span on different surfaces. Based on path-breaking research worldwide, the experts spoke about the life of the virus on various surfaces like veggies, fruits, cardboard, wood, utensils, different metals etc. which also suggests about what precautions one should take while saving himself. Talking of the behaviour of coronavirus, a former student of Allahabad university and presently research associate, Babraham Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom, Dr Archana Bajpai, said, “A study recently published in The Lancet journal carried out by independent researchers from Hong Kong by Prof Alex W H Chin of the University of Hong Kong has shown that the virus is unstable at high temperatures. While the virus has a long lifespan at a low temperature such as 4 degree Celsius, interestingly the virus is sensitive to heat i.e. 50% reduction in virus one day at 37 degree Celsius and no-virus in five minutes at 70 degree Celsius. Nevertheless, these studies do not support the myths such as taking a hot bath or sitting in the sun will prevent the virus infection as these measures will only help in killing the virus on the surface and, will not kill the virus that has already entered the body, cautious the expert. She further explained that the same study also has its findings on the life span of this virus on different surfaces. “The study concluded that the virus has a low life span on surfaces such as paper and tissue (One hour), 24 hours on wood and cloth, 48 hours on glass and more than four days life span on steel and plastic. Talking of another important factor i.e. transmission of virus through different surfaces, another alumni of Allahabad University and who is research associate at Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Vipul Gupta said, “A study, published in reputed NEJM (New England Journal of Medicine) by Dr Van Doremalen and Bushmaker of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, USA, and Morris of Princeton University, also from USA) has shown that the virus is not viable in copper for more than four hours, which in a way is good news for all the households in India which uses copper primarily in kitchens”. He further added that while there are no shreds of evidence of coronavirus spreading through food, but there is no such thing as zero risks. “Unwrapped fruits, vegetables should be washed thoroughly under running water and left to dry and for packaged food products, it will either help to leave them for more than 72 hours or wash/wipe them with bleach (carefully diluted at permissible level) or sanitizer/alcohol before using them”, said Gupta. Indian culinary requires food to be cooked on high temperatures; there are chances that viruses, if any, will be killed while cooking. This is important for takeaway foods from the local market if the food is freshly cooked and is delivered with minimum human contacts, he added. Talking on the issue, Prof SI Rizvi of the department of Biochemistry of AU said, “The main difficulty in dealing with this novel coronavirus is that it is absolutely new to humans and as researchers are still grappling to study its stability, one of the most intriguing property of this virus is that in around 80% patients, it does not cause any symptoms”. Thus, an effective lockdown is the only effective way out to pin the virus in confined areas. Likewise, Prof IR Siddiqui of the department of Chemistry, AU said, “While scientist and doctors worldwide are doing their best to develop effective vaccine against Covid-19, the only way to prevent its spread is to follow necessary guidelines like social distancing, handwashing, sanitisation, avoiding to be in mob etc. In addition to this, vegetables and fruits purchased from market must be thoroughly washed, preferably first with potassium permanganate solution and then by sufficient clean water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/experts-suggest-to-follow-precaution-coronavirus-has-different-life-span-on-different-surfaces/articleshow/75587659.cms||Rajiv Mani
May 7, 2020||Business||Public transport may start soon, will help boost trust: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday indicated that government may be considering to soon start public transport after formulating the guidelines to maintain social distancing though he did not spell out any timelines. “We have started highway construction, industries, import and export have also started. Now to deal with the present trend of migrants heading home — if we can start industries, business, public transport — then they will have more trust and will stay back and there will be no new problem,” he told representatives of Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India (BOCI) and some think tanks on public transport. The discussion was also attended by a World Bank representative. Gadkari said while resuming public transport is a way out, there is a challenge of how to regularise it by taking necessary safety measures. “Economic viability will be a big challenge as buses will have to be run with less number of passengers. It’s a tough task to balance earning, providing service and also ensuring safety,” the minister said. The minister made these remarks after a presentation by a think-tank showed how cities across the globe are running public transport even as they fight against the Covid pandemic. Highlighting how the bus and car operators are staring at huge financial problem, Gerald Ollivier, a transport specialist of World Bank, said they may face loss of about Rs 1.5 lakh crore in the next nine months. He suggested government could set up a Covid Stabilisation Fund for the sector by leveraging the sharp price drop in crude oil prices. He also suggested a rejuvenation programme to meet the shortage of buses in urban areas. Responding to the suggestion of rolling out "One Nation One Permit" by BOCI president, Prasanna Patwardhan, Gadkari said, "I will take it up on priority with the states."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/public-transport-may-start-soon-will-help-boost-trust-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/75587756.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Five members of family in Boloor now affected by Covid-19||MANGALURU: Two more members of a family in Boloor in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The patients (P-674 and P-675) are among three positive cases, other being P-676, reported in the district on a day that also saw a patient, a resident of Uppinangadi (P-325) with a travel history to Delhi get discharged. According to the district administration officials, while P-674 is daughter of P-536, a patient with history of TB meningitis discharged from First Neuro Hospital, a supervised isolation centre, P-675 is her granddaughter. Incidentally, even her son-in-law (P-658) was confirmed positive for the disease on Tuesday and P-579, her husband had tested positive on May 1. In all, five members of the family, all primary contacts of P-536 are now under treatment. In a related development, the third positive patient (P-676) from the district for the day was the daughter of P-390, from Kasba village in Bantwal taluk. Incidentally, P-390 was the first victim of the disease in the district, succumbing on April 19. The mother-in-law of P-390 died on April 23. With this, DK is now placed 10th in the state with 12 active cases. The district has also recorded three deaths due to Covid-19 so far. The day also saw a 39-year-old advocate (P-325) with travel history to Delhi get discharged. He had returned from Delhi on March 28 and was found positive on April 17. His wife who subsequently contracted the disease is undergoing treatment at District Wenlock Hospital, the designated hospital. The district also had six cases of Covid patients from outside the district but treated at the designated hospital here, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-five-members-of-family-in-boloor-now-affected-by-covid-19/articleshow/75587999.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 7, 2020||India||Repurposed drugs offer hope in India’s Covid fight||NEW DELHI: Lopinavir/ritonavir — a fixed-dose combination of drugs used for treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS — has been approved for use in Covid-19 patients. India’s apex body for health research, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has issued detailed guidelines stating that the drug combination can be used to treat hospitalised patients with a moderate degree of severity, for example respiratory distress with respiratory rate =22/min or SpO2 <94% and new-onset organ dysfunction. But this is not the only drug under consideration. ICMR has identified over a dozen other drugs, including remdesivir (originally developed to treat Ebola), mycobacterium W (originally developed to treat leprosy), disulfiram (drug for treatment of alcohol dependence) and resveratrol (a natural compound from grape which is under clinical trials for heart and other diseases), which could be used for treating Covid-19. Some of these drugs are undergoing clinical trials in India, sources said. Till now, ICMR says, no effective treatment has been recommended for the novel coronavirus, except meticulous supportive care. The protocol for use of lopinavir/ritonavir combination therapy released by the ICMR states their decision is based on the observational studies of clinical benefit amongst patients with SARS-CoV and MERSCoV as well as the docking studies conducted by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. SARS and MERS, two disease outbreaks that took place in 2002 and 2012, respectively, were also caused by coronaviruses. Any hospital administering the anti-HIV drug combination to Covid-19 patients will need to obtain written informed consent from the patient. Also, such patients need to be enrolled into this protocol on case-to-case basis. Hospitals will also need to monitor patients closely to generate reliable data about clinical, laboratory, as well as safety outcomes. "The treatment outcomes amongst the first few cases would be useful in providing guidance about the clinical management of Covid-19 cases in future," the ICMR says. Council director general Balram Bhargava was actively involved in developing the treatment protocol using anti-HIV drugs. Recently, the ICMR allowed the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for prophylactic use among healthcare workers. Sources said AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Bhopal, LNJP Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, among others, have been roped in by the ICMR to assess its efficacy in preventing the infection among healthcare workers. Dr Sarman Singh, director of AIIMS Bhopal, said developing a new drug for Covid-19 will take time. "Drug repurposing is much easier and a viable option to find a treatment for Covid-19. That’s why multiple studies are being conducted globally to identify drug combinations used for treating other coronaviruses — for example SARS and MERS, to see whether they can treat Covid-19 as well," he said. Dr Singh added they are also doing clinical trials to assess the use of mycobacteriam W to see if it can boost a patient’s immune system to help his/her body fight the disease. Scientists say most repurposed drugs have cleared Phase I trials already and it requires lower investment to prove its efficacy for a new disease or condition. "Drug repurposing strategy drastically reduces the time-frame for development," states a review article published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. "Drug repurposing to identify candidate drug compounds centred on the target-based criteria can be distinguished into virus- and host-based therapeutics," the article adds. Antivirals can target the viral proteins or the key events in the viral life cycle, including virus-host cell interactions, replication, assembly and egress, thus reducing its growth. Watch Repurposed drugs give hope in India’s Covid fight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/repurposed-drugs-offer-hope-in-indias-covid-fight/articleshow/75587972.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: SDM accuses municipal corporation of not cooperating in cremation of coronavirus positive victim||SHIMLA: Issue of cremating the coronavirus positive victim from Sarkhaghat of Mandi district has resulted into controversy with Shimla’s SDM (Urban) Neeraj Chandla accusing the municipal corporation of not cooperating in cremation in Shimla on Tuesday night. While the civic body authorities are claiming to have followed the protocol of Union ministry of health and family welfare in this, the SDM said that she along with tehsildar was standing at cremation ground till 12.35am when the municipal corporation team arrived. On this lack of communication and coordination, Neeraj Chandla is also submitting a report to Shimla district magistrate. On Tuesday evening, the 21-year-old youth had died at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla, while his samples were tested positive at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College in Ner Chowk of Mandi district. Following his death, family members, who were in quarantine, were informed and permission was sought for the cremation. The SDM said that primarily it was the duty of municipal corporation to assist in the cremation so she had immediately informed the municipal health officer. She said that initially she got positive response from the health officer, who said they have the PPE kits but after a while she was informed that there were no clear-cut instructions for the cremation and the municipal corporation has no role to play in this. “I only wanted the help of health workers of municipal corporation as PPE kits were needed to cremate the body. While no one from municipal corporation came, it was staff of medical college, who had cremated the body,” she said. Chanda said that she along with tehsildar remained at the cremation ground from 10.30pm to 12.35am. She said that official from municipal corporation came there around 11.30am at his own while she had needed health workers help in PPE kits to cremate the body. She said that vehicles of municipal corporation and a fire tender arrived there at 12.35am but by then body was consigned to flames. She said that beside municipal corporation, even police personnel should have also been present at the place as the district administration comprises of them too. “I left only after team from municipal corporation arrived, but incident has exposed the lack of communication and coordination. To ensure such things do not occur in future, I am submitting a report to district magistrate for further submission to the state government,” she added. While interacting with media persons, joint commissioner of municipal corporation Ajeet Bhardwaj said that protocol was followed by them and six employees and two vehicles were sent for the cremation who remained there till 2.30 am. He said that civic body was, according to the guidelines, issued by Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/shimla-sdm-accuses-municipal-corporation-of-not-cooperating-in-cremation-of-coronavirus-positive-victim/articleshow/75588197.cms||Anand Bodh
May 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Two trains from Ludhiana depart for Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that the process of sending migrants to their home states have started in view of the ongoing lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. In this regard, two trains carrying around 2,000 migrants departed for Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) and Daltanganj (Jharkhand) from Ludhiana railway station on Wednesday. It is pertinent to mention that a train carrying around 900 migrants had departed for Prayagraj (Uttar Pradesh) from Ludhiana yesterday. The deputy commissioner clarified that only those migrants would get benefit of this facility, who have applied on web portal www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in only. He informed that around 6 lakh people from other states applied for travelling to their home states till Wednesday afternoon. He informed that all states have appointed nodal officers for this purpose who are in constant touch with each other. He informed that the persons, who have applied on the government portal, the district administration has sent them a message on their mobile numbers (mentioned at the time of registration). He stated that people who have not applied, would not be allowed to leave, and the registration is a must. Agrawal informed that in future also, the district administration would send message to such persons, who have registered themselves at government portal www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in about the date and place, where they have to reach for the start of their journey back home. He said that proper screening of all migrants is being carried out in the city, and people who are medically fit, would be allowed to travel. He said that the passengers would be made to strictly follow social distancing during travel. He also appealed to the migrants to assist the district administration in this regard, so that they can reach their home states safely. He said that if they do not assist the district administration, then it might delay their travel plans, so they should wait for their turn. Vikas Kumar, a migrant, who was excited to travel to Prayagraj, thanked the Punjab government for facilitating their journey back home. He said that if the lockdown ends, he would certainly return to Ludhiana because it is like his second home, and the financial condition of his family depends on his job in the city. Several other migrants also thanked the Amarinder Singh government for their arrangements. The deputy commissioner informed that 3,608 samples have been taken in the district, out of which the report of 3,217 has been received, and 3,124 samples were negative. He informed that till date, 123 samples (all related to district Ludhiana) have been found positive, while 19 are from other districts, eight patients have been fully cured, and unfortunately five persons have lost their lives. He said that at present, there are 110 active patients of Ludhiana district. He said that all the employees of the district administration are working tirelessly for the safety of residents. He urged the residents to stay indoors and follow all directions of the Punjab government if they want to contribute in the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-trains-from-ludhiana-depart-for-uttar-pradesh-and-jharkhand/articleshow/75588550.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: 300 tests show negative for Covid-19||PANAJI: Virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim tested 300 samples and all have shown negative for Covid -19. As many as 188 persons were placed in facility quarantine on Wednesday, stated health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. Test reports of 15 samples was awaited at the end of the day, the bulletin stated. Persons placed in the quarantine facility other than seafarers are permitted to go home once they test negative for Covid-19. They are required to be home quarantined for the reminder of 14-day period. Also, seven persons are admitted in isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Isolation wards have been created in district hospitals of the government. The state has not detected a fresh Covid-19 case after April 3 and all seven patients have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-300-tests-show-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/75588598.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 7, 2020||Business||Hyundai to pay 3 EMIs in case of job loss for customer||Chennai: Lost your job and don’t know how to pay your next car loan EMI? If you are buying a Hyundai car this month, you’re covered for a maximum of 3 EMIs. Hyundai Motor India has just rolled out the ‘Hyundai EMI Assurance’ program under which Hyundai will pay up to 3 car loan EMIs for customers working in private organisations who have lost their job. All Hyundai models except the high-end ones like Kona, Creta, Elantra and Tucson are covered by this scheme. The scheme is valid till May 31 on Hyundai showrooms countrywide. “This will not mean higher interest rates or hidden costs for the customer. The customer is free to take finance from anyone. We have taken back-to-back insurance for this coverage from Shriram General Insurance and will pay upto 3 EMIs to customers in case of job loss. Around 80% of our vehicles are financed. The Hyundai Assurance Program covers the customer for a period of one year from date of sale of the car (excluding first 3 months),” Said Tarun Garg, director-sales, marketing & service, Hyundai Motor India. Hyundai is also all set to re-open dealership operations. Starting Wednesday, the company is opening 250 showrooms and 250 workshops countrywide in a phased opening. “All Hyundai touch points -showrooms and workshops are following contactless services for customer interactions,” said Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyundai-to-pay-3-emis-in-case-of-job-loss-for-customer/articleshow/75586250.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||AG: Govt keen on conducting SSC exams||Hyderabad: AG Prasad said that state government is keen on conducting some of the SSC examinations that could not be held on account of the lockdown. The state is planning to hold them in a manner that will not violate lockdown norms. Sanitisers, masks, social distancing will be followed at every step. “Once all the arrangements are made to conduct the exams, we will seek permission from the high court to accord us a green signal,” he said. The HC had earlier stalled the examinations following the Covid-19 pandemic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ag-govt-keen-on-conducting-ssc-exams/articleshow/75587832.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Squall at 71 kmph lashes Kolkata||Kolkata: An early-morning squall — the fifth to strike in two weeks — lashed Kolkata with a wind speed of 71km/hr on Wednesday. It lasted for three minutes from 3.55am and left a trail of uprooted trees, toppled lamp posts and snapped electrical wires across the city in its wake. The Met office predicted at least two more squalls by the weekend. On Wednesday, Kolkata received 46.6mm rain. “It was a nor’wester produced by heating in central India,” said RMC director G K Das. Around 32 trees were uprooted across south Kolkata and several parts were waterlogged. The water, however, receded later in the morning. The temperature slid by around four degrees — while the minimum was expected to be around 25°C, it fell to 21.8°C in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/squall-at-71-kmph-lashes-kolkata/articleshow/75586308.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Schools plan summer break from e-classes||KOLKATA: With the lockdown period covering summer vacations, several schools are planning to go for “online break” in between online classes. On Wednesday, as communique regarding a break was sent to the parents of South Point High School students by the school authorities. “All stakeholders perhaps require a break, therefore it has been decided that there will be a short recess from May 11 to May 16. Classes will not be held during the above mentioned period, but assignments will be uploaded, which the pupils will have to complete and email by May 17. Online classes will resume from May 18,” the letter said. “We are planning multiple short breaks instead of a long one. Delivering online lectures is exacting for both teachers and students, but a long break will hamper the rhythm of this new method of delivering education. So we decided on short breaks,” said school spokesperson Krishna Damani. Some schools are also holding online classes in a staggered manner. “We are giving relief to the students. We are teaching for three weeks and then suspending classes for a week. The summer holidays are being rolled out in this phased manner,” said principal of Vivekananda Mission School Sarmistha Banerjee. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy has started to plan ways to implement the online break. “Our teachers have been providing online classes since the end of March. They prepare the videos, upload study materials, give assignments and then evaluate the tasks. Our month-long summer vacations were to begin from May 15. We now plan to offer some online break to both teachers and students,” said principal Meena Kak. In St. James’ School, online classes are being held every day. The teachers have prepared videos, online materials and assignments, which will be distributed to the students till the end of the month. “We shall then opt for an online break of 10 days and reopen the school after June 10, as instructed by the state government,” said Principal T H Ireland. At Don Bosco School Park Circus, instead of giving the students a month-long summer holiday, the vacations will be reduced to three weeks in order to complete the projects. “During that time, online classes will remain suspended,” said principal Bikash Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-plan-summer-break-from-e-classes/articleshow/75586232.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Many turn ‘chefs’, acquire new skills||PATNA: Confined in their houses for nearly six weeks due to lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus, youngsters in the city are cooking up a storm in their kitchens either out of necessity or a way to acquire a new skill. Many youths, who never entered the kitchen, are spending hours trying their hands in culinary skills. Some staying single in other cities are also taking help of online videos or calling their mothers back home while cooking three meals a day. Several newbies are taking help from online platforms which are flooded with videos of ways to cook cake and other dishes. “I cook a different dish every day with the help of videos uploaded to social media platforms. I am trying my hand on almost everything, including ‘chaat’, ‘panipuri’, pizza and noodles,” said Hansika, a resident of Kadamkuan. Shristy Sonal, a postgraduate student, never thought she would bake a chocolate cake or make biryani. “I started with simple dishes like pancakes and went on cooking biryani. Though it has come as a shock to my family, the fact that I am slowly learning to cook makes them happy. I have also started enjoing cooking,” she said. Jagdeopath resident Shubham Gupta, who is unable to visit restaurants due to the lockdown, misses eating ‘tandoori’ food. He has, therefore, started making tandoor items on the rooftop of his house. “Tandoori food, especially chicken kebab, is my favourite. I saw a few videos of ways to make charcoal tandoor at home and finally made one. I have been cooking new dishes every day,” Gupta said. Ashwin Kumar, a fitness enthusiast, had the habit of working out for at least two hours a day. However, the lockdown has changed the way he lives. “I have started eating healthy food to stay fit. However, I have already gained a lot of weight because of change in diet. I am trying to make different types of salads,” Kumar said. As people are unable to go for dinner or lunch on special occasions, many are cooking dishes at home. Priyanka Shrisvastava, a resident of Kankarbagh cooked her husband’s favourite Thai food on his birthday last week. “I made Thai chicken satay, tom yum soup and drunken noodles on my husband’s 35th birthday. He was quite delighted even though I cooked them with limited resources I had,” she said. The lockdown has given ample time to several businessmen and employees of private firms to try their hands in cooking. “Passing time was okay for some time but now it has become exhausting. Hence, I have started experimenting with traditional dishes. I made ‘onion curry’ and cheese cutlets the other day,” said a businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-turn-chefs-acquire-new-skills/articleshow/75584462.cms||Archi Rani
May 7, 2020||Surat||42 more patients discharged in Surat||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked citizens to purchase essential commodities for a week in areas where more than 10 Covid-19 cases have been reported. “We want to contain spread of the virus and therefore want people to stay at home. We will be enforcing lockdown strictly. Only shops selling milk and medical stores will be allowed to open in areas which had witnessed more than 10 positive cases of Covid-19,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. He said 16 vegetable vendors and four persons of dairy parlours had tested positive for Covid-19 during the massive testing drive carried out by the civic body. Provision store owners, vegetable vendors and medical store owners were checked during the drive for the deadly infection. “We have asked vegetable vendors to sell vegetables in packets of 250gm, 500gm and 1kg and keep them ready for customers. This will minimize touch as people would not have to pick each piece of vegetable to see before purchasing. We have chalked out many plans to contain spread of the virus,’’ Pani said. Meanwhile, 42 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the city on Wednesday, taking total number of discharged patients to 345. Thirty-four patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre and eight from New Civil Hospital. “Recovery rate is increasing. There is no need to panic. However, people with co-morbid conditions are affected more by Covid-19. We are optimistic that more patients would soon return home after recovery,’’ Pani said. Meanwhile, the toll due to Covid-19 in the city touched 34, with two deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Salma Shaikh, 40, a resident of Limbayat, who was admitted to New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19. In a span of 10 hours, the patient passed away in the night as she had co-morbidities. Kavita Rana, 62, a resident of Salabatpura, was admitted to NCH on Tuesday evening with co-morbid condition due to diabetes and high blood pressure. She breathed her last on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the city reported 29 fresh positive cases of coronavirus, taking the total to 742 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/42-more-patients-discharged-in-surat/articleshow/75586717.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Surat||ST buses to take diamond workers home||SURAT: District administration has decided to run special trips by buses of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) for migrant workers. GSRTC’s Surat division has begun sanitization of buses after the announcement that migrant workers of diamond industry will be transported to their hometowns in Saurashtra and north Gujarat in its vehicles. Over 300 buses have been readied for transportation. The decision to run GSRTC buses follows criticism by opposition parties in allowing only private luxury buses to transport migrant workers to their destinations within and outside the state. A GSRTC officer said, “The buses have been sanitized and GSRTC will be providing concessional rates to migrants travelling within the state.” Immediately after announcement by the district administration allowing intrastate travel in private buses, many private operators on Tuesday had circulated on social media platforms a travel fare list, which was about 30% more than normal rates. The quoted travel fares were between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,500. Private Luxury Bus Operators’ Association president Dinesh Angadh said, “After a few bus operators circulated exorbitant rates, we decided to charge Rs 1,000 for 500 kilometres and Rs 1,500 for travel distance of more than 500 kilometres within the state.” An officer of district collector’s office said, “We will start gioving permission for intrastate travel from today. At present, more than 5,000 applications have been uploaded in a single day and many are still being uploaded online. We will scrutinize them and give permission. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/st-buses-to-take-diamond-workers-home/articleshow/75586655.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Govt to withdraw Rs 500cr from contingency fund||PATNA: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the government’s proposal to withdraw Rs500 crore from the Bihar Contingency Fund (BCF) so as to compensate the farmers for the crop damages they suffered on account of unseasonal rain. The cabinet also sanctioned the proposal to pay Rs151 crore worth of agriculture input subsidy to the farmers against crop damages suffered by them. Both the proposals had been moved by the state disaster management department. In another major decision, the cabinet also cleared the government’s proposal to authorize institutional heads of teachers training centres, education and training institute and primary teachers’ education college to spend up to Rs12 lakh annually on the maintenance and other campus beautification activities. Similarly, the heads of block level education training institutes have been vested with the right to spend up to Rs6 lakh per year for the maintenance of their institutes. The government’s decision to abolish seven of the 37 posts at command area development directorate under water resources department was also approved. The seven posts are that of the senior finance officer (1), typist (1) and five other lower level personnel. The cabinet also restored to his post Padrauna executive engineer of the WRD, Vijay Kumar Singh, who had been earlier dismissed by the department. His restoration has been done in pursuance of the Patna high court order. The cabinet also approved the government’s decision to formally end the budget session of the state legislature that had earlier been adjourned on March 16 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-withdraw-rs-500cr-from-contingency-fund/articleshow/75584526.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Workers receive rousing welcome at Sitamarhi railway station||SITAMARHI: A Shramik special train from Ahmedabad in Gujarat arrived at Sitamarhi railway station with 1,159 migrant workers on Wednesday morning. The migrant workers were upbeat on reaching their home state and warmly welcomed by the district administration. Platform number one, on which the special train arrived, was adorned with flowers and balloons. The passengers were given a rousing welcome and were provided food packets and water bottles. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma, SP Anil Kumar and other senior officials were also present at the station. Masks were distributed among unmasked passengers. While maintaining social distancing and sanitization process, a list of passenger details was prepared which included their cell phone numbers. Thermal screening of each and every worker was done by a large contingent of medical team. Altogether 1,075 migrants of Sitamarhi and Sheohar districts were sent by a bus to several block and panchayat-level quarantine centres. Remaining 84 workers of East Champaran, West Champaran and Gopalganj districts were also sent by buses, following the norm of social distancing. The Sitamarhi district administration has set up 1,224 panchayat and 73 block-level quarantine centres with all facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/workers-receive-rousing-welcome-at-sitamarhi-station/articleshow/75584735.cms||Shyam Kishore Singh
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 108 driver saves new mom’s life with blood||VADODARA: He is always seen as a God sent messiah when he drives his ambulance to save people’s lives in any condition. But on Wednesday, even after his work hours, Mohsin Khan Pathan saved a woman’s life who was left to fend for her life by her own family. The woman, a resident of Chiliyavant village, admitted at a private maternity hospital in Kawant taluka of Chhota Udepur had lost lot of blood while delivering her child. The hospital could manage only two units and wanted two more units. The woman’s brother, who also had O positive blood group was asked to come and donate but he refused due to lockdown. Meanwhile Pathan, who is a pilot with 108 emergency services, went to the hospital to meet his colleague while on his way home after his shift. The colleague, who is a distant relative of the woman, requested Pathan if he could donate the blood. He immediately agreed. He was taken to a nearby blood bank where he donated the much-needed blood for the woman. “I did not meet or see the woman but it is sad that her own family members refused to come forward. Her brother said that he was afraid of contracting the virus and he may be then quarantined if anything would happen,” Pathan told TOI. “I do not observe fast during Ramzaan because of my work, but donating blood to a needy person especially during current times is nothing less than observing fast,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/108-driver-saves-new-moms-life-with-blood/articleshow/75583855.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: What Ramzan, ask the poor||PATNA: With mosques shut and no streetside feasting this Ramzan, poor Muslims, who live from hand to mouth, are finding it difficult to break their fast with a sumptuous meal every evening. Many of them were dependent on other well-to-do families, but cannot step out of their houses amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Affording food for a family of seven is a major challenge for 48-year-old Mohd Imtiyaz, who lives in the Kamla Nehru slum of the city. A rickshaw-puller by profession, he earned approximately Rs 400 every day before the lockdown. “Earlier, during the holy month of Ramzan, many volunteers would provide food to us, but things have changed. Now, I have to use my savings to feed my family. We manage to break our fast with ‘chana’ in the evening,” Imtiyaz claimed. A large number of Muslims in the Kamla Nehru area, who are mostly daily wagers, are also struggling to make ends meet. 37-year-old Firozi Khatoon, who sells utensils for a living, burst into tears while narrating the problems her family was facing. She asked, “What Ramzan? We have nothing to eat. Due to the fear of being infected with coronavirus, many people have stopped donating food grains to us.” Another utensil seller, Mohd Asif, rued that he had no other source of income. The 45-year-old told this newspaper, “I have nothing to do now because people avoid letting me in. Even cops stop me from roaming around.” With 22 family members, including five kids, Asif has asked his wife to cook ‘chana’ with gravy and bottle gourd fritters. Like Asif, quadragenarian Mohd Islam has no job amid the lockdown. His wife cooks only one heavy meal for five family members every evening. 39-year-old Uresha Khatoon is using half-stale spinach, cabbage and brinjal to make soup or fritters for her family these days. “I are saving dry ration for emergency,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/what-ramzan-ask-the-poor/articleshow/75584333.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University girl harassed on social media||KOLKATA: A day after Delhi police arrested the administrator of an Instagram private chat group named Bois Locker Room, where teenage boys planned gang-rape,a woman in Kolkata lodged a complaint on Wednesday, alleging unknown men have been sharing her social media pictures on Instagram and WhatsApp and commenting on her body. The 22-year-old Jadavpur University student lodged an email complaint with the cyber crime police station requesting strict action against the men involved in the act. “In January, I had received a text message on my Instagram chat from an unknown youth who sent me a screenshot of a WhatsApp chat. The screenshot had a photograph of mine where random men were commenting on my body and were writing about sexually assaulting me. I had asked the youth for the details of the men. He said he was a part of the group but felt bad when he saw my image and thought of warning me. He said some of the men were from my university, but didn’t reveal their names,” the woman told TOI. She said she initially ignored the matter, but after the Delhi incident, she thought of letting the cops know. An officer asked her to visit the police headquarters in Lalbazar on Thursday to file a written complaint. On Monday, tweets by a profile named Aiyoobrows accused a group of men from Kolkata of “using semi-nude and nude pictures of women in a Google drive and circulating it among friends.” The profile user claimed all the accused are former JU students. Following her post, several women came forward to confirm the existence of such a drive. Read the story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-girl-harassed-on-social-media/articleshow/75586274.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 7, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Valsadi hafoos ripens, but no one to pluck||SURAT: Whether mango lovers would be able to gorge on their favourite Valsadi hafoos (alphonso) this season is a big question now. Read the entire story on TOI+An economy without migrant labour?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-valsadi-hafoos-ripens-but-no-one-to-pluck/articleshow/75586794.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
May 7, 2020||Surat||Dang’s first Covid-19 positive nurse recovers, wants to donate plasma||SURAT: “I am ready to donate my plasma if needed,” said Preeti Kanvar, Dang district’s first Covid-19 patient, a 19-year-old Surat-returned nurse, while coming out of the hospital on Wednesday post recovery. She was working in a Surat-based multi-speciality hospital, had returned to her native where she was tested positive for coronavirus on April 23. “I thank to all medical staff who helped me recover from this virus,” said the bubbling youngster who was touched seeing the hospital staff line up outside the hospital and clap when she emerged as a victor. Total three Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Dang district till date. Meanwhile, in Surat district, one more person was tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to health department officials, 29-year-old Hardik Chaudhari, a resident of Vegi village in Mandvi taluka of Surat district tested positive. Total 41 people have been tested positive in Surat district till date. No fresh cases were, however, reported from Tapi, Navsari, Bharuch, Valsad and Dang on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dangs-first-positive-nurse-recovers-wants-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75586704.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Surat||Migrants walking on sore feet salvaged by villagers||SURAT: Blisters added to their pains of not getting any transport to go home, but a group of migrant workers trudged on relentlessly amid the unrelenting heat in their bid to reach home in Uttar Pradesh in at least 40 days. However, thanks to residents of Ena, an NRI village near Bardoli, who not only took pity on these 29 labourers’ plight but also arranged for their transportation to their hometowns after feeding them and attending to their sores. Even BJP leaders from the city arranged their seats in the special shramik trains .Nine workers started their journey two days ago from Vapi, while the others from Sachin and Udhan in city joined them at later phases. A villager spotted the tired bunch taking rest near Godiya village on national highway 43 on Tuesday evening. “An engineer from our village spotted them. Blisters on their feet were bleeding due to continuous walking on roads in the scorching sun,” said Parimal Patel, president of Surat Jilla Khedut Samaj. Ena villagers arranged for food, medication as well accommodation for their stay at night. Patel said that he discussed the issue with city BJP leaders who suggested that he bring them to the city. “The workers were taken to the city in a school bus and arrangement for their train travel are being done,” he added. A native of Banda district in UP, Bhaiyat Ram, said that the workers, who have been jobless were left with no option but walk back as they have no money for train. Manish Pal, a native of Kaushambi, added “Few of us have a little money which we will need to support our family for the next few weeks Hence, we decided to save the transportation cost.” Nitin Bhajiyawala, city BJP president said: “We have arranged for their train travel. Twenty will leave on Wednesday night, while the others on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-walking-on-sore-feet-salvaged-by-villagers/articleshow/75586587.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 7, 2020||Patna||No proposal to shift Jamalpur IRIMEE: SuMo||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Wednesday said that reports of shifting IRIMEE are completely misleading and baseless. “Union minister of railways Piyush Goyal has said that the Centre has not mooted any such proposal. CM Nitish Kumar has also written a letter on this matter and the railway minister will soon clarify,” SuMo said in a press statement issued on Wednesday evening. Earlier, senior JD(U) functionary and state water resources minister Sanjay Jha on Wednesday expressed strong resentment over reports of Centre’s move to shift the Jamalpur-based Indian Railway Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE) out of Munger. Jha in a series of tweets on IRIMEE being shifted termed the move as ‘outrageous and unacceptable’. “Bihar takes strong exception to the railway ministry’s order dated April 24 to shift the prestigious Jamalpur-based IRIMEE from Munger. CM Nitish Kumar has asked railway minister Piyush Goyal to intervene on this regressive move,” Sanjay tweeted. He added: “CM Nitish has written a letter on May 1 to Goyal requesting him to immediately rescind this decision. IRIMEE represents rich legacy of the railways and Bihar. It’s great historical linkage with Bihar needs to be further strengthened and not severed.” Enumerating the history of IRIMEE, Sanjay said, “This oldest training institute is an iconic institution and a pride of Bihar. Established in 1888, IRIMEE, Jamalpur, has been the most coveted centre for training Indian Railway’s top brains since 1927. How can a legacy of 93 years be wiped off so brazenly?” He added, “In 2015, Bihar had urged the Centre to upgrade IRIMEE into a university. It was then informed that the National Academy of Railway, Vadodara, was being upgraded as the first national university and IRIMEE shall operate under this new university. Now, this move to shift it is unacceptable. The rather intriguing move is shocking. IRIMEE, Jamalpur, is integral to rich legacy of Bihar and CM Nitish takes great pride in this.” Opposition too, tried to flare-up the issue. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha issued a statement saying, “Step- motherly treatment to Bihar will not be acceptable. When the entire country is fighting Covid-19 pandemic, then this kind of move will not only lead to resentment but retaliation from the people of the state. I even doubt that all this has been done by the state and the central government.” IRIMEE, Munger, which was established as a technical school attached to the Jamalpur workshop, is one of the six Centralized Training Institutes (CTI) of the Indian Railways. It came into national prominence when it started training of Special Class Railway Apprentices as mechanical and electrical engineers from 1927. In 1974, the school was made a CTI. It was also brought under the direct control of Railway Board. (With inputs from Kumod Verma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-proposal-to-shift-jamalpur-irimee-sumo/articleshow/75584643.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Liquor Stores Do Robust Business In Twin Cities||Hyderabad: Hours after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao gave the nod to sell liquor, thousands of tipplers thronged wine shops and were seen desperately waiting for the shutters to go up, early on Wednesday. Exactly after 44 ‘dry days’, around 700 shops in twin cities, barring those in containment zones, welcomed boozers to savour the first drops after a corona-induced break. The sharp rise in prices did not deter any as the 16% hike on branded liquor and 11% on country liquor appeared an insignificant issue. Anticipating massive sales, store owners conducted poojas and had broken coconuts before commencing their business, which was shut for a month-and-half. Serpentine queues, reminiscent of the demonetisation days, were seen as early as 6 am at many places. Neither sweltering heat nor the price hike bothered the buyers. Surprisingly, many were unaware of the revised rates. “I wanted to purchase four bottles of whiskey irrespective of the price. I am not sure if the government will continue to keep the shops open for long. So I want to stock up, even if that means paying a higher price,” said Venkata Mallesham, who stood before a wine shop at Neredmet X roads, almost two hours before the shop opened. Many wine shops allowed only two to four bottles per person to discourage bulk buying and also ensure their stocks last longer. Liquor stores in the containment areas remained closed. Many buyers, who waited before them, returned disappointed after police informed that shops in the red zones would remain shut. While most tipplers wore face masks, the frenzied rush to get alcohol saw social distancing norms being violated. City police faced a tough time to enforce social distancing as the crowd swelled between 9.30 am and 10.00 am. “Outside the wine shops, owners made markings so that people maintain social distancing. However, as soon as the crowd swelled, buyers started flouting the rule. We had 10 policemen and excise officials on the spot to ensure that social distancing is maintained,” said a constable posted at Greenlands junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-stores-do-robust-business-in-twin-cities/articleshow/75587279.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar legislative council becomes ‘headless’||PATNA: Legislative council, the upper house of the state’s bicameral legislature, became headless on Wednesday after its deputy chairman Haroon Rashid vacated the chair following completion of his six-year term as an MLC. Being the deputy chairman Rashid had been officiating as acting chairman of the House for the last three years in absence of a regular chairman. With his retirement, both posts of chairman and deputy chairman fell vacant leaving the upper house headless. It is for the third time in 107-year-long history of the state legislative council that both posts of chairman and deputy chairman fell vacant. Earlier, similar situation had arisen in May 1980 and January 1985. As per the constitutional provision, the governor on the advice of the state government can nominate a house member as its acting chairman. But the state government has so far not sent any such advice to the Raj Bhavan. “The Raj Bhavan did not receive any such advice from the state government till Wednesday late evening,” a Raj Bhavan official told TOI. Besides Rashid, 16 other members also completed their six-year term. Rashid was elected to the council in 2014. Of the total 17 members who completed their term on Wednesday, nine were elected from Vidhan Sabha constituency, four from Graduates’ constituency and four other from Teachers’ constituency. The four Graduates’ constituencies which now remain unrepresented in the council are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Koshi. These seats fell vacant after retirement of sitting members—Neeraj Kumar (JD-U), Devesh Chandra Thakur (Independent), Dilip Kumar Choudhary (JD-U) and N K Yadav (BJP) respectively on Wednesday. Similarly, four Teachers’ constituencies, which now remain unrepresented, are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga, and Saran. These seats fell vacant after retirement of sitting members Nawal Kishor Yadav (BJP), Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI), Madan Mohan Jha (Congress) and Kedar Nath Pandey (CPI) respectively on May 6. Besides these, other nine sitting members, who were elected in 2014 also retired on Wednesday. Of the total nine, six members were from JD(U) and the rest three from the ally BJP. These members are Council’s acting chairperson Haroon Rashid, Ashok Kumar Choudhary, Prashant Kumar Shahi, Satish Kumar, Sonelal Mehta, Hira Prasad Bind (all from JD-U), Krishna Kumar Singh, Sanjay Prakash and Radha Mohan Sharma (all from BJP). CPI MLCs retire: With the retirement of its both MLCs— Sanjay Kumar Singh and Kedar Pandey—the CPI lost its representation in the state legislature. The CPI has no now member in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/legislative-council-becomes-headless/articleshow/75584498.cms||Madan Kumar
May 7, 2020||Business||Yes Bank’s Q4 loss more than doubles to Rs 3,668 crore||MUMBAI: Yes Bank has reported a loss of Rs 3,668 crore for the quarter ended March 2020 as compared to a loss of Rs 1,506 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. For the full year 2019-20, the bank has reported a loss of Rs 22,715 crore as against a profit of Rs 1,720 crore in the previous financial year FY19. The bank said that its deposit base shrank 53% to Rs 1.05 lakh crore this fiscal year-end from Rs 2.27 lakh crore as on March 31, 2019. Its advances declined 29% to Rs 1.71 lakh crore from Rs 2.41 lakh crore. The gap between the deposits and advances was made up with borrowings of Rs 1.13 lakh crore. Although the bank managed to report an operating profit of Rs 106.41 crore for the quarter as against Rs 1,323 crore in January-March in previous year, it made provisions of Rs 4,872 crore as against Rs 3,661 in the corresponding quarter last year due to ageing provisions for bad loans. The bank wrote back tax provisions of Rs 1,097 crore, which brought down the loss to Rs 3,668 crore. Yes Bank said that 40-45% of corporate borrowers (in value terms) had availed a moratorium on repayments during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Among MSMEs it was 35% to 40%, while retail was in 40-45% range. Of the total provisions made during the fourth quarter, Rs 3,336 crore was towards investment. “Provisions for investment include Rs 1,228 crore on non-performing investment to a housing finance company (DHFL), now 100% provided for, and Rs 2,012 crore provision on non-performing investment exposure to various entities of a diversified conglomerate (believed to be Reliance ADAG group),” the company said. In addition, the bank also made about Rs 1,100-crore provisions towards its non-performing loans. The bank’s gross non-performing assets (NPAs) as of March 2020 stood at Rs 32,877 crore, which works out to 16.8% of its total assets, while net NPAs were 5% of total assets. Since the closing of the books, the government had notified the Yes Bank reconstruction scheme under which eight lenders led by State Bank of India infused Rs 10,000 crore and acquired control of the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-banks-q4-loss-more-than-doubles-to-rs-3668cr/articleshow/75586466.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Business||VestaSpace gets $10 mn from Next Capital LLC||Chennai: Indian space technology startup VestaSpace Technology, which makes small satellite platforms for commercial and scientific applications, has received $10 million in funding from American investment and advisory firm Next Capital LLC. These funds will used to develop and acquire new ground station for geo based satellite and development of Geo satellite for boardcasting. "This is the first round for VestaSpace as it was self funded company which started with $3 million seed funding after selling my drone software," said founder Arun Kumar Sureban. "This deal was started in January 2020 with the vision and results of launching the satellite coming up in September 2020. We are planning to make satellite platform available for everyone also provide India with better broadcasting and receiving facility and make small satellite and cubesat the preferred choice," he added. VestaSpace was started in 2018 to help startups and mid-size businesses access the benefits of using small satellites, satellite communication, sensors, and connected devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vestaspace-gets-10-mn-from-next-capital-llc/articleshow/75586257.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 7, 2020||Business||Glaxo to sell 6% in HUL for Rs 26k cr||MUMBAI: In what could turn out to be the largest block deal in the Indian stock market, Horlicks and GlaxoSmithKline PTE together are set to sell nearly 13.4 crore shares of FMCG major Hindustan Unilever (HUL) on Thursday. The transaction will be done through block deals that could top Rs 26,000 crore or about $3.5 billion in value. The HUL shares on sale — translating into about 5.7% of the FMCG major’s equity — accrued to the two companies after HUL bought over GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare’s India business last year for nearly Rs 32,000 crore. According to the term sheet of the deal, the HUL shares are being offered at a price range of Rs 1,850-1,950. At the lower end of the band, this is at an 8% discount to HUL’s Wednesday close on the NSE at Rs 2,010, while at the upper end it’s at a 3% discount. Depending on the average price at which the chunk of shares are sold, the deal could be in the Rs 24,750 crore ($3.3 billion) to Rs 26,090 crore ($3.5 billion) range, the term sheet said. Even at the lower end of the deal size, it would be at least Rs 4,750 crore more than the Rs 20,000 crore that the Japanese pharma major Daiichi Sankyo received when it sold its 8.9% stake in Sun Pharma in 2015. Despite the weakness of the rupee against the greenback since the Sun Pharma block deal, in dollar terms too, the HUL transaction would exceed the Daiichi deal. The Japanese drug maker had acquired the Sun Pharma stake after the Indian pharmaceutical major bought over the troubled company from the Tokyo-headquartered entity. According to market sources, the HUL deal is being handled by three foreign broking majors — J P Morgan, HSBC and Morgan Stanley. It’s unusual for three brokers to be involved in one block deal, but market players said, given the size of the block, it was possible the sellers roped in more than one broker. The deal is being arranged through an accelerated book-building process. Under this, the brokers — after the close of the day’s trading — send out the term sheet to large institutions to express their interest to buy shares from the block. Once the book is built, the shares are traded in lots the next day on the bourses. In December last year, Unilever, HUL’s Anglo-Dutch parent, had announced its agreement to buy GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare health food portfolio in 20 countries, including in India, through a share swap pact. After the deal, popular brands now under HUL include Horlicks and Boost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glaxo-to-sell-6-in-hul-for-rs-26k-cr/articleshow/75586545.cms||Partha Sinha
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Asha workers to stop survey if not paid Rs 200 daily allowance||Kolhapur: Asha workers in the city have threatened to stop the survey of senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions, if they are not paid Rs 200 as daily allowance. Asha workers are the footsoldiers of the health system and are being employed to identify people persons with Covid-19 like symptoms. Chandrakant Yadav, head of Asha workers association from the city said, "Since the lockdown began we are raising several issues faced by Asha workers. All agencies are relying on them for one survey after another, while the health staff is fearing to assist them. We have sought Rs 200 per day allowance to the Asha workers. They will start survey work with a black ribbon tied on their hand and if the demands are not met they will stop the work,” he said. Currently, there are 110 Asha workers in the city, who have been handed the task to conduct an important survey. “We have asked to cover the city with a total population of around six lakhs in just few days. So far three surveys have been carried out for covid management, however, we are not paid any allowance for last one month," said a Asha worker. She along with her team had demanded personal protection kits while carrying out the survey in containment zone, however, the kits were not provided. Now, the zones have been cancelled as no new case has been reported from these zones and the covid positive cases have been recovered. Recently, the district administration had taken up the task to survey the senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions. These sections of people have less immunity to coronavirus infection and the mortality rate in them is also high. The district administration is providing immune-boosting ayurvedic formulations and ensuring extra care of such people is taken. There are over ten lakh senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/asha-workers-to-stop-survey-if-not-paid-rs-200-daily-allowance/articleshow/75584786.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nashik||9 more patients recover in Ahmednagar||Nashik: As many as nine more Covid-19 positive patients have recovered and been discharged from Ahmednagar’s Evangeline Booth Hospital. While six patients were discharged on Wednesday evening, the remaining three were sent home on Tuesday night. Of the six discharged on Wednesday, 2 are from Jamkhed and the remaining four are from Sangamner. Of the three discharged on Tuesday, 2 were from Jamkhed while the remaining one was from Nevasa. These three locations are hotspots in Ahmednagar and have so far recorded 44 positive cases of coronavirus. The total number of recovered patients in Ahmednagar is now 34. A total of eight patients are currently undergoing treatment at the Evangeline hospital and two have so far succumbed to the infection. “Things are improving in Ahmednagar as no new case has been reported from any of the hotspot zones for around two weeks,” a district administration official said. Ahmednagar was the first among five districts under Nashik divisional commissionarate to register a Covid019 positive case on March 12 when a resident tested positive after returning from Dubai. 4 discharged from Nandurbar Four members of a family from Nandurbar district of North Maharashtra, who were infected with the novel coronavirus, have recovered and were discharged from the district civil hospital on Wednesday. They were the first patients to be infected with the virus in the district and were admitted to the hospital for treatment. One of the patients, a 71-year-old woman, thanked the doctors, nurses and the para-medical staff profusely for their efforts in getting them cured. “The way they toil in the hospital to look after us is really unbelievable. They take the risk of getting infected, but yet they selflessly look after us,” she said. A total of 19 people tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district with one of them succumbing to the infection. At present, 14 patients are under going treatment at the district civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9-more-patients-recover-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75584760.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Modify guidelines for migrants: Tejashwi||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday demanded more Covid-19 tests in Bihar. He advised the state government to rope in public representatives in the relief work to verify the claims being made by officials. He also urged the state government to ask Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to roll back its latest guidelines. “MHA, in its guidelines issued on May 3, does not allow workers, who had gone out for job purpose, to come back home. This is inhumane and state government should immediately intervene and get it changed,” Tejashwi said. A day after his interaction with chief minister Nitish Kumar at an all-party meeting on Covid-19 pandemic through videoconference on Tuesday, Tejashwi on social media suggested more testing as per the density of the state. “Mere screening will not help as many infected people do not show symptoms,” said Tejashwi. Expressing dissatisfaction over the data shared by state health and disaster management departments, Tejashwi said the reality was different and various incidents suggest that the arrangements are not good enough. “You should go out and check whether the officers are even implementing your suggestions,” Tejashwi urged Nitish. “It is also the duty and responsibility of public representatives to serve people. Also, what officers say is different from what they actually do,” he said. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad also asked the state government to book more trains to bring back migrants stranded outside the state. “If you are not capable, we are ready to pay for 50 trains and 2000 buses for that purpose,” he said. Citing the example of arrangements made for 2.50 lakh pilgrims during Prakash Parv in Patna, Tejashwi said similar arrangements should be made for the migrant workers of the state. RJD women cell: RJD on Wednesday formed its new women state committee with Urmila Thakur as its president. Seva Yadav, Mumtaz Jahan, Bharti Yadav, Geeta Yadav, Anita Bharti, Kumari Rajmani, Poonam Jha, Seema Gupta and Manju Singh have been made vice-presidents of the wing, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modify-guidelines-for-migrants-tejashwi/articleshow/75584568.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 7, 2020||Patna||1,200 migrants arrive at Barauni Junction||BEGUSARAI: A special train from Surat carrying around 1,200 migrant workers from around 30 districts of Bihar arrived at Barauni junction here on Wednesday afternoon. A large number of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Bihar police personnel were deployed at the railway station for ensuring smooth movement of the migrants while maintaining the social distancing norms. After alighting from the train, the passengers had to undergo medical screening. As many as 22 teams of health personnel carried out the screening work. An officer of the district administration said those belonging to Begusarai were sent to their respective block headquarters after medical screening on the platform. “Each passenger will stay at a quarantine centre for 21 days and provided essential items. Those from other districts with no symptoms of Covid-19 virus were sent to their native places in buses. To ensure that a person should disembark his or her journey only at specified places, a magistrate with police personnel accompanied them in buses,” said the official adding that proper record of each migrant arriving by special trains is being maintained. A few migrant workers complained that despite the tall claims of the government, they had to pay from their pockets for the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1200-migrants-arrive-at-barauni-junction/articleshow/75584695.cms||Rajiv Kumar
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa to hold Class X board exams from May 21||PANAJI: The Class X exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) will be held from May 21, finally bringing some certainty for around 20,000 students registered to answer the test. The exam was originally to begin from April 2, and has now been delayed by over a month. Meanwhile, the three remaining papers of the Class XII board exams will be held from May 20 to 22, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that a detailed timetable will be released by the board on Thursday. Sawant said that all recommended norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19 will be observed while conducting the exam. “We have taken prior permission from the Union ministry of home affairs to hold exams on these dates,” Sawant said. “Most states have already held their board exams. Only CBSE exams in northeast Delhi were left. Hence, we have taken the decision to conduct our exams. We will hold the exams by observing all norms like social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-hold-class-x-board-exams-from-may-21/articleshow/75587835.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||2,500 migrants to reach Bhagalpur today||BHAGALPUR: The district administration has geared up to receive 2500 migrant workers reaching Bhagalpur from Hyderabad by two special trains on Thursday. The two special trains with 24 coaches in each train are carrying 2500 migrant workers of Bhagalpur and Banka districts, who were working in Hyderabad and other districts of Telangana. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, SSP Ashish Bharti and other senior officials reached the Bhagalpur railway station on Wednesday and supervised the preparation for receiving the migrant workers. Arrangements were checked for thermal screening at the railway station, followed by medical check-up at the quarantine centre at the Government Polytechnic in Barari. Altogether 500 police personnel from the district police, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Reserve Police (GRP), besides administrative officials have been assigned duty at the railway station on Thursday to monitor the arrival of migrant workers as well as their safe transportation to their respective blocks. Medical experts, including doctors, paramedical staff and health workers have also been requisitioned in large number for carrying out on the spot thermal screening and health check-up at the quarantine center at the Government Polytechnic in Barari. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti told this newspaper on Wednesday that heavy bandobast of police force has been made to receive the migrant workers at the railway station. “Barricading has been done to check crowding and maintain social distancing,” the SSP said. DM Pranav Kumar said two trains carrying approximately 2500 migrant workers of Bhagalpur and Banka districts from Hyderabad will reach Bhagalpur railway station on Thursday. “Elaborate arrangements have been to receive the migrant workers and for smooth transportation to block headquarters after their medical check-up,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2500-migrants-to-reach-bhagalpur-today/articleshow/75584781.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 7, 2020||Surat||UP-Valsad bond going strong for five decades now||SURAT: Unlike kesar mango farmers in Junagadh who themselves auction their produce in Talala market yard, the Valsadi Hafoos farmers have adopted a hassle-free system where they out rightly give their mango orchards to the traders from Uttar Pradesh on lease every year. This system has been in place for the last five decades and majority of the traders are from Pratapgarh and Allahabad in UP, who start arriving in Valsad by the first week of May for the plucking and trading of mangoes from the orchards. Some people from UP employed with the big mango dealers in Mumbai had sensed a business opportunity when they first started arriving in Valsad around 50 years ago. They met the farmers and developed relationship which resulted in the system of leasing the orchards. These workers left their jobs with the Mumbai-based mango dealers and became their suppliers. “For last 40 years, we are doing business with two traders from UP. Every year, they keep my orchard on lease. The relationship is so strong that they pay us as and when they get money from the dealers in Mumbai,” said Vijay Patel, a farmer from Anjalav village in Valsad. Pravin Chhajed, a mango farmer from Umbergaon said, “The traders from UP do everything, right of from plucking to transporting and trading the fruits. Last year, I cultivated Rs 20 lakh worth of mangoes. After deducting the cost of cultivation, I earned profit of Rs seven lakh.” Abdul Rasheed, a mango trader from Pratapgarh said, “I used to accompany my father to Valsad when I was 12 years old. When my father died, I took over the business. We have select farmers in Valsad with whom we are doing business for the last 40 years.” Abdul said, “We sell the fruit to dealers in Mumbai, Valsad and Surat. If the dealer’s asking price is Rs 700 per 20 kg, we keep the orchard on lease for Rs 500 per kg. Out of the margin of Rs 200 per 20 kg, the actual profit is Rs 50 per kg, because we have to pay to the workers and bear the transportation cost.” “Every year, I lease out half of my 70 bigha orchard to UP trader who offers maximum price. This year, I will have to manage on my own. I will have to shell out at least Rs 50 per 20 kg more for plucking. Morever, wholesalers are taking advantage of lockdown and not giving enough price to farmers,’’ Tejas Patel, an orchard owner from Kevada village near Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/up-valsad-bond-going-strong-for-five-decades-now/articleshow/75586768.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: 12,000 more migrants leave for natives||SURAT: About 12,000 migrant workers from the city boarded the shramik special trains for Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand on Wednesday. About 10 special trains were run on Wednesday from Surat to Chappra and Purnia in Bihar, Jagganathpur in Odisha, Banda, Prayagraj and Varanasi in UP and Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Official sources said that about 36,000 migrant workers from the city have so far travelled to Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh since May 2. About 14 special trains will be run even on Thursday. The Odiya community in the city have raised demands for increased frequency of trains to Odisha to transport maximum number of migrant workers. “Only 13 trains have left for Odisha, against the booking of 68 trains,” complained Surat Odiya Welfare Assn VP, Bhagirath Behara, adding they want five more trains to run daily. Meanwhile, Odiya workers got restless in Pandesara after their schedule for a train to Odisha wasn’t declared despite depositing money with the association members. Behara claimed that four associations are working towards collecting data and facilitating travel of the stranded workers. One association had taken money but there was no announcement about a special train, which irked the workers. The issue was sorted out after the intervention of the community leaders, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/12k-more-migrants-leave-for-natives/articleshow/75586633.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Business||ICRA downgrades Edelweiss to A+||MUMBAI: Ratings agency ICRA has downgraded Edelweiss Finance & Investment and Edelweiss Housing Finance, citing increased stress in the group’s wholesale portfolio. The ratings for both the the companies have been revised to A+ from AA-. “ICRA has taken a consolidated view of the Edelweiss Group, given the close linkages between the group entities, common promoters and senior management team, shared brand name, and strong financial and operational synergies. The rating downgrade action takes into account the increased stress in the wholesale portfolio, leading to a deterioration in the asset quality, and the consequent impact on the financial performance,” ICRA said in a statement. The group’s gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) increased to 2.76% of total advances as on December 31, 2019 from 1.87% as on March 31, 2019. “The rating actions also take into account the continued funding challenges, as witnessed by the reduced fund-raising by the group, and the widening credit spreads,” ICRA said. It has factored in the group’s demonstrated track record and established position in the financial services industry as well as its diversified business profile. “While the credit businesses have emerged as key business segments, the group continues to have a healthy stream of fee and advisory income. However, these positives are partially offset by the credit and concentration risks in the group’s wholesale lending segments and the risks associated with the distressed assets business,” said ICRA. Going forward, the progress in resolving and managing the group’s stressed asset portfolio and the impact on its asset quality would be important from a credit perspective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icra-downgrades-edelweiss-to-a/articleshow/75586301.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Migratory birds breaking lockdown silence in Bihar||PATNA: As the air and noise pollution levels have dropped significantly and residents remain indoors due to the nationwide lockdown, birds chirping and fluttering their wings are enjoying freedom unbound. Migratory bird Greater Adjutant, a member of stork family, is easily spotted on the banks of Ganga and Kosi rivers and other water bodies. Otherwise, they are generally seen in Bhagalpur area in winter season. Birdwatcher Arvind Mishra says many people are sighting hundreds of Greater Adjutants even near small ponds in Bhagalpur, Khagaria and bordering districts. “These birds usually fly back to their homes in March-end. Sighting of these birds even in May is rare,” he said. Arvind, who is also the state coordinator of Indian Bird Conservation Network, said, “In Patna, the population of garden birds like tailorbird, francolin, woodpecker, purple sunbird, bulbul, white-eyes, oriental magpie robin and various species of dove has increased amid the lockdown.” He added: “To see these birds, we have to go to less populated areas or on the city outskirts. But these days one can easily spot a variety of birds even in our backyards or gardens.” Sighting of other water birds like grey hornbill is also an eye candy for people farming near the riverine area owing to no boating and fishing in the rivers. Navin Kumar, another birdwatcher, said he sighted 24 varieties of common birds from his home at Rajendra Nagar. “Many of them are spotted rarely in the city area due to air and noise pollution. The population of several common birds has increased,” he said. “Golden oriole and oriental white-eye birds are generally not seen in human habitats. But they are now being sighted in residential areas. Asian koel, black kite, rufous treepie, shikara, spotted owlet, rose ringed parakeet and cattle egret among others are easily sighted in the city area. Most birds are more active in morning and evening hours. But amid the lockdown, they remain active for a considerable period of time,” Navin said. Meanwhile, the colourful butterflies are the eye candy for lepidopterists. Rahul Kumar, who has been doing research in this field for the last two years, said due to low pollution and clear sky, they are coming out in large numbers. “If lucky, one can spot species like painted lady, peacock pansy, jezebel, oak blue, Pierrot, great eggfly and tiny grass blue as well,” he said. He added: “In other days, we only spot common jay, common crow, grass yellow and plain tiger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migratory-birds-breaking-lockdown-silence-in-bihar/articleshow/75584522.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 7, 2020||Patna||Ensure skill survey of migrant workers: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure proper skill survey of all migrant workers who have returned to the state so that their capacity can be utilised in a better way after completion of their 21-day quarantine period. He said the migrant workers could make valuable contribution in the state’s economy. While chairing a high-level review meeting with the chief secretary and other senior officials, the CM asked them to be sensitive towards peoples’ grievances and conduct speedy inquiry if any public complaint comes in the connection with the government-funded schemes. He also asked the officials to ensure regular monitoring of all employment generating schemes and keep a close vigil on the works being executed under the MGNREGS. The CM further said that a large number of migrant workers, students and other people are arriving in Bihar from different states. “Ensure proper screening of all such people and conduct medical testing of suspected cases as per the protocol,” Nitish said. He further asked the chief secretary to ensure Covid-19 testing facilities at the district-level so that maximum people could be covered for such testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-skill-survey-of-migrant-workers-cm/articleshow/75584602.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Patna autorickshaw drivers in distress||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic has left the autorickshaw drivers in the lurch with no other means of livelihood. Like most daily wagers, they are also having a tough time in making ends meet. Satyendra Lal, who used to earn Rs300-400 by ferrying people from Agamkuan to Patna Junction, said he was not able to buy even medicines for his father. “The lockdown has been extended till May 17 and we have still not received any financial help from the government. All my savings have exhausted now,” he said. Lal Babu said he has no money to pay his house rent. “I am somehow managing to buy rice and pulses for my family with the little amount I had saved over the years. I am worried if the lockdown period is extended again,” he said. Bihar State Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association members have already staged protests in the last few days to attract the government’s attention, but in vain. Naresh Kumar said: “We held several protests but no one came to out help. We are living in misery.” The situation is even worse for women autorickshaw drivers. Rinki Devi said the state government and the Centre have left those working in unorganized sector to survive on their own. “I have not received a single penny from the government. I have children at home. They are struggling to get three-time meals,” she said. Association’s general secretary Rajkumar Jha said more than 1,00,000 autorickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers in Patna district are in distress due to the lockdown. “Left with no work, they are sitting idle for the last six weeks. Those who were borrowing money from others have stopped getting any further help,” he said. “The association has written several letters to the government, but hasn’t received any help until now. We want the authorities to give Rs10,000 and three-month ration to the drivers,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/autorickshaw-drivers-in-distress/articleshow/75584286.cms||Archi Rani
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||IIT-Kharagpur defers exams till July||KOLKATA: IIT Kharagpur has decided to defer its examinations till July in the hope that the Covid situation might improve by then and the lockdown may be relaxed. The institute has published a fresh academic calendar revoking the earlier one that had scheduled the semester exams in April. According to the earlier calendar, all semester exams were supposed to be completed by the time the summer vacations started in May. However, the lockdown threw a spanner into this plan. A number of students chose to stay put on campus during the shutdown and online classes were held to utilize the time. Now a fresh calendar has been published for the ongoing spring semester where exam dates and date of submission of marks have been fixed afresh. According to this calendar prepared by the registrar, all end-spring semester exams will now be held between July 6 and 14. The faculty will also have to submit grades for all subjects and a list of failures by July 21. For both undergraduate and post-graduate results review, the academic committees will have to take their final call by July 23 so that students can register for the summer semester by July 25 and classes can begin the next day. Once the results are declared on July 27, students who have not been able to clear papers in the spring semester will have to register for supplementary exams between July 28 and August 2. These exams will be held between August 13 and 18 after the summer classes end on August 12. The institute is getting a ‘plan B’ ready in case the lockdown is extended and on-site exams cannot be held in July, said registrar B N Singh. “In that case, we might have to explore the option of an online exam or consider attendance, performances on assignments, online viva, etc. It is a dynamic situation and hence, back-up plans have to be ready,” Singh said. The institute is also keeping an eye on the preparations of the Centre for NEET, which, too, has been rescheduled. “If the Centre is mulling its exams in July, we should also be able to do that. As of now, we are going ahead with our July exam plan. The situation will be reviewed on May 17, when the lockdown is projected to end,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-defers-exams-till-july/articleshow/75586256.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 7, 2020||Surat||Shortage of workers hit food processing units in south Gujarat||SURAT: The food processing units in Valsad and Navsari are unable to start operations despite bumper mango crop this year. This is because of shortage of manpower and the low supply of mangoes from the orchards. Sanjay Naik, who owns a canning unit in Gandeva village of Valsad says, “I require 300 metric tonne of mangoes for pulp, but I may get only 60 tonne. This because the traders and workers from Uttar Pradesh are not coming due to lockdown and the harvesting of mangoes is yet to begin.” There are about 250 small and medium sized canning units in South Gujarat and majority of them get their mango supplies from Navsari and Valsad. Chairman and managing director (CMD) of Patson Food Pvt Ltd, Suraj Savaliya said, “We require 2,500 metric tonne of mangoes, but this year we will get only 700 tonne. I have tied up with a few farmers in Valsad to bring the fruits directly from the orchards.” To add to the woes of the farmers, the APMC in Valsad has been shut due to the lockdown. The mango traders are provided alternative place on the highway, but they are not willing to shift. “We can’t take risk of shifting on the highway. We purchase mango from UP traders, because they do everything from plucking to transporting mangoes to the yard. Farmers can’t bring mangoes to the market on their own,” said Ravindra Mishra, a mango trader in Valsad. Chairman of Valsad APMC, Arvind Patel said, “The crop is bumper this year, but there are few hands to pluck the harvest. Mango traders are not willing to shift to the alternative spot on highway and farmers are not getting the workers and traders to pluck the harvest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shortage-of-workers-hit-food-processing-units-in-s-guj/articleshow/75586774.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Testing spike reduces Covid rate from 6.7% to 4.8% in three weeks||KOLKATA: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose to 1,456 on Wednesday, but the percentage of people who have tested positive dipped. Even as the state ramped up testing, the current percentage of positive cases, calculated against the total number of samples tested, comes to 4.8. Though the figure is still higher than the current national average of 3.8%, as reported by ICMR, the positive percentage in Bengal stood at 6.7 till mid-April. “We started conducting more tests about two weeks ag. For the past few days, we have been testing anything between 2,000 and 2,500 samples daily. As a result, the number of positive cases has been on the rise. But at the same time, the rate of people testing positive is going down,” said an official at Swasthya Bhawan. Health experts pointed out that the percentage of positive cases would keep declining as more samples were tested a day. Also known as test positivity rate, this parameter is an indicator of the spread of an infectious disease. Even till the end of March, the number of samples the state was testing was in double digits. It was only in the beginning of April that the daily testing number started touching triple digits, about 200 on an average. The past two weeks have witnessed a major rise. “We did not start with massive testing in the initial phase. The government must have waited for a clear map of containment zones before ramping up examinations. Now with the number of tests going up, we might witness a spurt in cases in the next weeks. At the same time, it will push down the rate of positive cases being detected,” said surgical oncologist Diptendra Sarkar of IPGMER. On April 16, when the number of samples tested in Bengal stood at 3,811 and positive cases 255, the positivity rate was 6.7%. With daily tests being scaled up to an average of 700 a day, the positivity rate gradually started to drop below 6%. “Till mid-April we had just about nine labs for Covid tests. Now we have about 16 labs and we are expecting a few more to get ICMR approval,” said a Swasthya Bhawan official. “We keep hearing about people trying to hide symptoms instead of approaching doctors or hospitals. This is not done,” said Sarkar. “Also, a clarity on where people should go if they have symptoms or doubts will be of immense help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/testing-spike-reduces-covid-rate-from-6-7-to-4-8-in-three-weeks/articleshow/75587139.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 7, 2020||Patna||1,300 migrants reach Khagaria railway station||KHAGARIA: Around 1,300 migrant workers hailing from different districts of Bihar, stranded in various parts of Telangna, reached Khagaria railway station by a Sharmik Special train from Secunderabad on Wednesday morning. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh, SP Meenu Kumari, DDC R N Singh and ADM Shatrunjay Mishra with a medical team were on their toes to receive the passengers and supervise all necessary preventive measures as per Centre’s guidelines to prevent spread of Covid-19 virus. The passengers hailing from 22 districts, including Banka, Bhagalpur, Munger, Katihar, Purnea, Gaya, Nalanda, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj, Madhepura, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Vaishali, Patna, Siwan, East Champaran, Kaimur and Sheohar underwent the mandatory medical screening at Khagaria railway station before boarding the 46 buses parked outside the circulating area of railway station. All migrant workers, who returned will stay in government quarantine centres in their respective block headquarters for 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1300-migrants-reach-khagaria-railway-station/articleshow/75584722.cms||N P Thakur
May 7, 2020||Patna||200 used masks seized from surgical shop in Patna||PATNA: A team of health department officials and policemen seized 600 masks from a surgical shop on Govind Mitra Road in the state capital on Tuesday. At least 200 of the N95 seized masks kept there for sales were dumped by hospital staff somewhere in the city, police suspect. Senior drug inspector Rajesh Kumar Sinha said things would be clearer after the arrest of shopowner Jawed Ali, who managed to escape during the raid. “We suspect that the unclean and unsealed N95 masks at the store might have been collected after use at some hospitals,” Sinha said, adding all such masks are always sold in sealed packets. He said Jawed has been running his New Metro Surgical Shop for the past several years. “We have clearly mentioned in the FIR lodged with Pirbahore police station that these masks were perhaps already used. Jawed is named accused in the FIR,” Sinha said. He said the rest 400 masks were of five different categories and poor quality. Sinha also said the shop employee failed to produce any bill to show where these masks were actually purchased from. The drug inspector said they had received a written complaint from IGIMS doctors about unclean masks sold to them from Jawed’s shop. “Ten days back, these doctors had placed an order for 200 N95 masks. They were charged Rs200 for each mask. However, doctors complained that masks received were not sealed and dirty,” Sinha said. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Ahmed Khan said raids were on to nab Jawed. “He is booked under relevant sections of The Essential Commodities Act, The Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Section 420 of IPC,” Khan said. Besides masks, Sinha said 200 pieces of sanitizer bottles of six varieties, including some samples for free distribution, were also seized. One 100ml sanitizer bottle was being sold at Rs200 though the central government has fixed Rs50 per 100ml. “Both masks and sanitizers are under essential commodities category after in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/200-used-masks-seized-from-surgical-shop/articleshow/75584372.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Canine lover nurses litter of puppies abandoned in sewer||PATNA: At a time when life has come to a standstill and uncertainty reigns supreme, vicenarian Harshit Gupta has taken it upon himself to help stray animals in distress. The Mithapur resident rescued a litter of puppies abandoned in a sewer near his house recently and nursed them back to health in 18 days. “I brought the six pups home, fed them with milk every day and built a small kennel. I could not leave them behind,” Harshit told TOI on Wednesday. This, however, is not the first time that Harshit, who is an animal lover, has come to the rescue of strays. He says, “Fondness for animals comes naturally to me as I have grown up with a pet at home. It was only after Duffy passed away in 2008 that I began rescuing helpless animals, especially dogs.” With the Covid-19 lockdown in force and Patna in the ‘red zone’, what bothers Harshit is the neglect of homeless animals. “I leave my house every morning with milk bottles and food prepared by my mother. I also carry medicines, which I bought after consulting a family vet. I have fed over 500 dogs in different parts of the city during the lockdown period,” the 26-year-old claims. A fitness trainer by profession, Harshit puts his love for animals before everything else and uses a part of his earnings to take care of them. His parents, especially his mother, and friends have been extremely supportive of his choices. He says, “As Covid-19 spread its tentacles, it struck me that animals would be left in the lurch. I immediately created a non-profit fundraiser on a social media platform and informed my friends about it. Much to my surprise, even strangers poured in donations for feeding the strays.” As soon as the lockdown ends, Harshit plans to “bring fellow animal lovers together and open an organisation that conducts rescue operations, feeds abandoned strays and fulfils their medical needs”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/canine-lover-nurses-litter-of-puppies-abandoned-in-sewer/articleshow/75584404.cms||Anuja Shanker
May 7, 2020||Varanasi||‘Living dead’ appeals to people: Honour corona warriors||Varanasi: Lal Bihari ‘Mritak’, a ‘living dead’ in Azamgarh district, on his 65th birthday on Wednesday, made an appeal to the people to stay safe and indoors during the coronavirus lockdown. ‘Living dead’ is an epithet used for people who are alive but have been declared dead in revenue records. Bihari had also been declared dead in revenue records but he fought with the bureaucracy for 18 long years and he was finally declared alive on June 30, 1994. He also formed a Mritak Sangh (association of dead men) to help those who are struggling with the same issue. “Many migrant workers are still stranded in different cities due to the lockdown. I hope they are able to return to their homes as soon as possible. It is my earnest appeal to everyone to stay safe and honour doctors, paramedics, police personnel and others who are at the forefront in the battle against the deadly pandemic,” he said. He said that ‘Mritak Punarjanm Diwas’ (rebirth of dead) is celebrated on June 30 and ‘Mritak Diwas’ (death anniversary) on July 30 every year. He was declared alive on revenue record on June 30, 1994, following a long battle after he had been declared dead on July 30, 1976. A native of Amilo village, Lal Bihari learnt that he was dead after he visited the revenue office at Azamgarh district headquarters to get a proof of identity for bank loan. His uncle had allegedly bribed the official to declared him dead in revenue record to usurp his property. In order to help other people dead in revenue records, he formed Mritak Sangh to fight battle to ‘come alive’ in revenue records and also get their properties back. The organization worked to make government as well as the society understand the miseries of living dead, who despite being bonafide citizen of the country, are deprived of ancestral property. “There are scores of people who are dead in revenue records. We are trying to get justice to them,” he said. The organization also fielded its candidates in parliamentary elections, just to draw people’s attention. Lal Bihari was also awarded the Ig Nobel Peace Award in 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/living-dead-appeals-to-people-honour-corona-warriors/articleshow/75584085.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Youth going to lodge FIR killed||PATNA: One Janardan alias Jano Mahto (52) was arrested for allegedly shooting Lallan Kumar (22) dead on Tuesday. The incident took place near Jandinagar village under Barh subdivision of Patna district when Lallan of Chanainiya was on way to Bhadaur police station to lodge an FIR against Janardan. Bhadaur police station SHO Niwas Kumar said Janardan, a native of Jandinagar, was arrested from Kaima Taal area. He said Lallan’s father Nago Mahto had also received gunshot injury in his leg while his brother younger brother Suman Kumar (19) was thrashed with rods and sticks when they were passing through Jandinagar, which is near Chanainiya. “Lallan, along with Suman, father and uncle Munna Prasad, was coming to Bhadaur police station around 7am on Tuesday to lodge an FIR against Janardan when they were attacked,” the SHO said quoting the FIR lodged by Lallan’s brother. “Lallan’s family had a fight with Janardan on Monday evening over an old dispute. The murder seems to be a fallout of that incident,” the SHO said. He said six persons, including Janardan, had been named accused in the murder case. “The arrested accused is also injured. Raids were on to nab the other five accused,” he said. One arrested for duping people in PM’s name: The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) with the help of Vaishali police, arrested one Rajan Kumar on Tuesday for allegedly duping people in the name of fraud financial assistance of Rs15,000 being given under a scheme of PM Narendra Modi to the applicants amid the Covid crisis. An FIR was lodged with Garaul police station against Rajan in this regard. Rajan created a WhatsApp profile using Bihar Police’s official logo. He sent a link to many with appeal to fill the form with their bank account details for getting Rs15000. EOU received the information about the forgery on Tuesday and traced the youth at village Khurrampur under Garaul police station in Vaishali. EOU sources said Kumar’s bank account details were being gathered. He had also applied for the constable’s post in state police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-going-to-lodge-fir-killed/articleshow/75584807.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 pushes startups into survival mode||PATNA: Most of the startups in the state are struggling to survive during this nationwide lockdown to tap new markets. Cofounder of a real estate business in Kankarbagh , Prakhyat Kashyap said, the lockdown has burdened him with too many issues “From paying rent to the land owner to giving salary to the staff, the lockdown has added to my struggles. Besides, the profit that I have made in the last two years is not enough to pay everyone,” he said. The entrepreneur, who recently extended his business in cities like Indore, Ranchi and Gurgaon said that a number of investors backed out after the lockdown. Sharing similar woes, Aditya Chandra, founder of a food delivery firm, who had more than 300 regular customers, said he is suffering loses ever since the lockdown was implemented on March 25. “We were basically running three segments—online, subscription and offline. Apart from the regular 300 customers, a lot of students from other states used our platform for ordering food. We also used to provide food to hundreds of people in government as well as private events. Now that everything has stopped, we are not able to generate any income,” Chandra said. Meanwhile, the industries bodies said that startups require investors to function, which is not possible keeping in mind the current situation. Abhishek Kumar, general secretary of Bihar Entrepreneurs Association said that there are over 50,000 startups in Bihar. “Except for startups in agriculture and health sector, all other are at losses,” he said. Abhishek, who has been holding several webinars with entrepreneurs said, “It is very important to keep them motivated. As most of them are still growing and trying to understand the market, a crisis like this might de-motivate them. Meanwhile, Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan said entrepreneurs are dependent on the support of banks and government. These startups will not be relieved unless they receive support from government and banks,” he said. Industries minister Shyam Rajak said that the department is working to solve the problems of startups and small enterprises in the state. “We have even appointed a new officer for looking after their issues. Hopefully, we will solve them soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-pushes-startups-into-survival-mode/articleshow/75584484.cms||Archi Rani
May 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Nadukani likely to open for stranded people to return||Malappuram: The state government is likely to consider the demand to open Nadukani checkpost on Nilambur-Gudallur inter-state highway for stranded people to return to Kerala. The government had declared six entry points to the state from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for the people stranded in other states to return; but Nadukani was not included as entry point. After this, political parties, including CPM, have been demanding the state government to allow people to return through Nadukani as the highway is shortest route to Kerala from parts of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the government will try to resolve the issue after discussing with the government of Karnataka. Earlier the district committee of CPM had demanded the chief minister to intervene in the issue. District secretary E N Mohandas said hundreds of people from the district, including students, patients and senior citizens, are stranded in other states and the Nadukani entry point is the shortest way for them to return to their homes. “As the entry through Nadukani was not allowed, stranded people are forced to take longer routes through Muthanga in Wayanad and Walayar in Palakkad, travelling an additional of around 200km,” Mohandas said in a statement. District Congress committee president V V Prakash said hundreds of people are experiencing difficulties due to the long-distance travel to return to the state and he also demanded the government to open the Nadukani checkpost. Demanding to open the checkpost, district committee of Youth Congress organised a cycle journey from Vazhikkadavu to Malappuram district collectorate on Wednesday. District Congress committee president V V Prakash flagged off the journey. Four leaders of the organisation pedalled for 60km from Vazhikkadavu to Malappuram to Malappuram and submitted a memorandum to additional district magistrate Mehar Ali, demanding to open Nadukani route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nadukani-likely-to-open-for-stranded-people-to-return/articleshow/75584800.cms||T P Nijeesh
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Maids demand unemployment allowance from state||Kolhapur: The maids association has asked the state government to provide unemployment allowance to city maids as they find themselves jobless due to extended lockdown. The association has written a letter to the labour minister Dilip Walse-Patil recently urging the state government to give them livelihood grants as earlier given to construction workers. The government-sanctioned them a grant of Rs 3,000 per month. The residential welfare associations have barred the maids and other workers from entering the society due to the fear of getting infected by coronavirus. "Two days ago I called my employer, she said that the society has decided not to allow maids on the premises. My employer said told me to wait till the lockdown gets over to resume work. I also sought some financial help from them but that went unheeded. I even told my employer to give some advance and cut it from my monthly salary once the work is resumed. However I did not get any reply," said a maid working in Bondrenagar. Meanwhile, the maids association has also approached the local authorities to get some help for over 8,000 maids in the city. Sushila Yadav president of the housemaids association said that maids are in urgent need of government help. “Even after the government appeal no employer has paid the salary to them. Not even 50% of it. We approached the local leaders, officials but they have not done anything so far. A few days back the government made a mere announcement that it will make some financial arrangements for the maids. When will they do? We demand at least Rs 1,000 monthly to the maids till they remain out of work." The maids have been going through difficult times as they have struggled for food on a daily basis. After the first couple of weeks, the food and relief material too completely stopped. They now have to depend on pulses and grains, which have been provided by local welfare forums. Some of them have also stopped the supply as they were not getting any more donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maids-demand-unemployment-allowance-from-state/articleshow/75584806.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man arrested for poaching wild hare||TRICHY: A 27-year-old man was arrested for poaching wild hare in Pagalavadi reserve forest of Trichy district on Tuesday. The arrested person was identified as Ravi, 27 from Kalipatti village. Police are on the lookout for his accomplice Shankar, 25, who is on the run. The duo were returning from the forest on a motorcycle in the late hours of Tuesday after poaching wild hare when the forest personnel intercepted them. While they tried to flee, police managed to catch Ravi. Wild hare is protected under schedule IV of the wildlife protection Act 1972. They are found in good numbers in the forests across Trichy district and are often targeted by poachers for their meat. The duo were booked under various sections of the wildlife protection act 1972, apart from sections of epidemic act 1897 and disaster management act 2002. Ravi was produced in the Thuraiyur Court and remanded to 15 days in prison. A senior official from the forest department said that the duo appears to have indulged in such activities even in the past. He said that police have increased vigil in the forests to check poaching of animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-arrested-for-poaching-wild-hare/articleshow/75587138.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Labour dept warns firm against plan to cut jobs||Thiruvananthapuram: Following a move for a mass lay off in a garment export firm in KINFRA Apparel Park, Thumba, the labour department has intervened and warned the officials against such a decision. In the midst of lockdown, the Texport Industries Private Limited functioning in the KINFRA Apparel Park has asked around 1,200 of its employees to sign resignation papers. The company had remained shut for the past few weeks on account of the lockdown. Texport Industries was the largest company in Kinfra Park and had been functioning for 10 years. An employee, who was made to sign resignation paper on Wednesday, said that they were asked to rejoin office on May 4. “When the staff reached the office, the management informed us that they are winding up operations here and asked us to sign resignation papers. Some were made to sign on Monday while the remaining were told to do so on Wednesday,” the employee said, adding that majority of the employees were from financially poor families. “The company is providing gratuity only for people who have served five years. Others are told to leave without any benefits. Most of the employees are working here for the past 10 years or so,” said an employee. Though employees didn’t file a formal complaint, the district labour office intervened in the issue and warned the company HR manager against the lay off. “The state government has given strict warning against lay off or salary cut during the lockdown period. If they are winding up operations, they should inform the industries department and labour department in advance. We haven’t received any such information from the company,” said the district labour officer. The Chirayinkeezhu unit of labour department called HR manager, who denied reports of mass lay off. “We have warned HR manager against such moves. However, we haven’t got any formal complaints from employees,” the labour department officials said. CM Pinarayi Vijayan has repeatedly asked firms not to lay off employees and provide them salaries during lockdown. PM Narendra Modi too appealed to all industries not to push employees into further distress during the lockdown. TOI tried to contact manager of the firm, but his number was unavailable. Sources said that the employees were called in the pretext of joining work but were threatened to sign resignation papers. “The firm has already shifted its stocks to offices in other places in the previous days,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/labour-dept-warns-firm-against-plan-to-cut-jobs/articleshow/75586213.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Employers fail to keep workers from going home||AURANGABAD: Bishnu Mahato wants to return to his home in West Bengal’s Purulia even though his employer in the Waluj industrial area of Aurangabad has ensured that he had adequate food and shelter during the lockdown. The employer had even got Mahato life insurance. The 23-year-old, however, has made up his mind. He wants to go home even as his employer prepares to restart industrial operations. “I am in no mood to stay here. My family members call every day, asking me to return. I too want to be with them. The pandemic has shattered the mindset of the workers and we are all feeling homesick,” he said. Bablu, another young migrant worker, said he did not expect any bright employment prospect anytime soon. “We are bound to get lower pay as everyone is going through a financial crisis. It will be wise to return home now ,” he said. Deepak Padlkar, who runs plating business in Waluj, said he took care of a group of 30 workers employed with him during the lockdown, but the workforce left him when he decided to restart the business. “Out of the 30 workers, 28 left. I took care of them, but they are not willing to stay in Aurangabad,” said Padlkar. The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) has blamed government policies. “While on one hand, the government is easing the lockdown norms, paving way for the resumption of industrial and allied activities, it is also arranging for mass transportation of migrant workers,” Massia president Dnyandeo Rajale said. Industry captains said pulling out of stranded workers was justified during the first phase of the lockdown, but not now, in the third phase. When contacted, government officials said they are following central and state directives. “We will send them to their home states in batches by road or by train,” a senior government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/employers-fail-to-keep-workers-from-going-home/articleshow/75584819.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 7, 2020||Trichy||‘Temples shut for Chithirai fest, don’t come out’||Trichy: Nagappattinam district collector Pravin P Nair has urged the people not to mistake the relaxation in curfew to freely move outside and visit the beach to celebrate Chithirai festival this year. He said that the seven temples, where Chithirai festival is conducted every year, will remain closed for the public. Chithirai is celebrated at Subramania Swami temple in Ettukudi, Nellukadai Mariamman temple, Sattainathar Swami temple in Nagapattinam, Rathnagreeswarar temple in Thirumarugal, Swarnathavaneswarar temple in Sithaimur and Thiruvenkadu and Kamatchi Amman temple in Kazhuvarakkadai every year. Devotees usually converge at these temples and visit the seashore during the day along with their family. However, due to the restrictions over Covid-19 the temples will remain closed and no puja will be performed, the collector said. The gateways to Nagapattinam district at A K Samudram, Manalur and Vanjur have been sealed and revenue, police and health workers deployed to maintain a close vigil on people arriving from Chennai and other districts. Whoever arrived at these spots would be allowed to enter the district only after thorough medical check-up. Out of the 400 who arrived, blood samples of 150 have turned negative and the remaining test results are awaited, the collector said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temples-shut-for-chithirai-fest-dont-come-out/articleshow/75587149.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||GCA keen on Amit, Smit as professionals||Panaji: Impressed with last season’s performances, the Goa Cricket Association will continue with captain Amit Verma and wicketkeeper Smit Patel as the two professional (outstation) players. Verma, a 32-year-old allrounder, scored 848 runs and took 43 wickets scoring three centuries and taking five-wicket haul four times, while Smit hammered 799 runs, taking 20 catches and a couple of stumpings. Smit hit three centuries and half-centuries last season. The performances came against relatively weaker teams in the Plate Division but as Goa moves back among the Elite after topping the group, it will be a tough grind again. "We are pleased with Amit and Smit's performances and will definitely continue. We haven't taken any formal decision as of now due to the lockdown. But there are no issues in retaining them. They proved themselves. They played a pivotal role in taking Goa to the quarterfinals," said GCA secretary Vipul Phadke. Prakash Mayekar, GCA’s director of coaching and cricket operations, kept a watch on the players and was impressed with Verma’s decisions. Mayekar said Verma led from the front when Goa played the last home match against Arunachal Pradesh. Goa were in control, but Arunachal were inching towards a second innings lead. Had they taken the lead, Goa would have been forced to bat again. Verma didn't take any chance with the new ball and bowled a tidy spell to earn the hosts an innings victory. That win proved vital and ensured Goa reached the top. "Amit is a fantastic player with an amazing ability to analyse game. He takes players into confidence and knows Goa players well. He has been with us for last two years. As a captain, he is clear in his decision making and gets the best out of the players," said Mayekar. Goa were always looking for a good wicketkeeper. Smit, who played for India Blue, India Under-19s, India Under-23s and Board President's XI, was offered the chance to play for Baroda. However, Goa had already secured his services. “Smit is a young player and he did what was expected of him. A wicketkeeper needs to be counted as a batsman and he didn’t disappoint us,” said Mayekar. Amit, meanwhile, has already confirmed his availability. “We didn’t belong to the Plate Division. The hate feeling got the best out of players. The road will be tougher now. Each player took up the challenge and we are where we belong,” said Amit. Smit had options, particularly Baroda, but it appears he will opt to stay in Goa. “Once the lockdown is over, things will be better, and I will come to know. I want to play for Goa,” said Smit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gca-keen-on-amit-smit-as-professionals/articleshow/75586216.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||4 more patients likely to get discharged today||Kolhapur: Four Covid-19 patients are likely to get discharged from Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) civil hospital on Thursday after their throat swab samples tested negative. The swab samples of the four patients — a woman each from Shahuwadi and Kasba Bawada, and a couple who were intercepted while travelling in a container to Karnataka — were tested in the newly-installed COVID testing lab facility at the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College on Wednesday. Out of the four recovered patients, one woman is the mother of the youth who had tested positive after attending Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi. He already has been discharged. "Another woman from Kasaba Bawda area, who had a travel history to Satara, has also recovered from the contagion. She was said to be having co-morbid conditions and has successfully recovered from the infection," an official from the civil hospital said. "The husband-wife duo will be transferred to an institutional quarantine facility or arrangements will be made to transport them back to their native village. A decision regarding the same will be taken later," he added. With a tally of 14 positive cases, Kolhapur district currently has only eight active cases. After these four are discharged the number of active cases will be reduced to four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-more-patients-likely-to-get-discharged-today/articleshow/75584815.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Submit report on ‘P-0’ of First Neuro Hospital: Dist min||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari directed district health authorities to trace ‘patient-0’ (P-0) for Covid-19 cases in the district, which originated in the First Neuro Hospital, and submit a report to the government. The directive comes in wake of three fresh cases being reported in the district, and all these can be traced to patients who either underwent treatment at the hospital, or are primary or secondary contacts of patients there. Directing deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh and DHO Ramachandra Bairy to carry out a comprehensive inquiry into the issue, he instructed them to prepare the report with the help of a high level medical team. “It is imperative to put to rest doubts in minds of people as to the source of the outbreak in the district,” the minister said. Incidentally, a six-member team under Dr Bairy is already on the job, and is drawing closer to the answer. Dr Bairy said the team has made significant progress in detecting ‘P-0’ for the hospital, which is now a supervised isolation centre. The process of forward and backward tracing of all patients treated and discharged from the hospital has been undertaken, he said, adding answers will be known once the 12th day reports of all stakeholders at the hospital, numbering 210, including the doctors, patients and their attendants and hospital staff, are received. Today is last day for free travel The district administration has thus far sent more than 11,000 labourers to their home districts by deploying 433 buses. Thursday will be the last day that this free service is offered, he said, advising all migrant labourers to go to the KSRTC bus stand at Bejai, for a trip back home. The administration has also decided to allow all clothing stores to function from Thursday, on the condition that trials of clothes will be not be permitted in the store, and social distancing is maintained .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/submit-report-on-p-0-of-first-neuro-hospital-dist-min/articleshow/75583176.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Varanasi||Ghazipur CRPF martyr cremated with full honours||Varanasi: The mortal remains of CRPF personnel Ashwini Kumar Yadav, who was killed in the militant attack in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, were consigned to flames amid full state honours at his native village in Ghazipur district on Wednesday. The body was brought by an IAF aircraft at Lal Bahadur Shastri International airport where a guard of honour was given to the martyr. Later, the mortal remains were taken to the Ashwini’s native village Babhnauli in a CRPF vehicle. People assembled in a large number to pay tributes to him. Ghazipur district magistrate Om Prakash Arya and senior police officials were present there on the occasion. A compensation of Rs 50 lakh, government job to a family member and a link road were promised to the family. The entire village fell in grief after receiving the news of the demise of the CRPF personnel on Monday evening. He is survived by his wife Anshu and two kids -a 7year-old daughter and a six-year-old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ghazipur-crpf-martyr-cremated-with-full-honours/articleshow/75584124.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana district magistrate issues guidelines regarding Covid-19||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that the Punjab government have announced complete lockdown in the state till May 17, 2020 in view of Covid-19 pandemic. He informed that as per the guidelines received from the Union government, zones are to be identified on weekly basis and for the week beginning May 4, 2020, Ludhiana district falls in red zone. However, he informed that in Ludhiana, as of now, there is no demarcated containment zone, but nine areas have been declared restricted/high priority areas. While issuing new orders, the DM stated that activities related to travel by air, rail, inter-state buses, educational institutes, schools, colleges, training and coaching institutions, hospitality services, cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, social, political, cultural and other kind of gatherings, religious places/place of worship, movement of individuals from 7pm to 7am, movement of persons above 65 years of age, pregnant women and children below 10 years and inter-district buses, taxis and cabs, rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, barber shops, salons, spa shops (both in rural and urban areas) would be strictly not allowed. He said that only those trains which are being run by the Punjab government are allowed. He said that the activities allowed with passes and restrictions include four wheelers (driver plus two passengers), two wheeler without pillion. The movement of individuals from 7am to 7pm would be allowed with restrictions, OPD facility in government and private hospitals would be allowed, along with goods traffic, rural shops except shopping malls in rural areas (7am to 3pm), urban standalone, neighbourhood and shops in residential areas (7am to 3pm), urban shops in markets, market complexes (for essential commodities only) can do counter sale from 7am to 3pm and later can do home delivery till 7pm, construction rural areas (just by sending self-declaration at acgludhiana@gmail.com), construction in urban areas (for only ongoing projects and for in situ construction), architects need to take e-pass, agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, veterinary (essential services), banks and finance (9 am to 1 pm) for public dealing and later can do only office work (no public dealing after 1 pm), courier, postal service (9 am to 1 pm), essential goods, IT, jute, packaging industry, industry in rural areas (by submitting self declaration at gmdicludhiana@gmail.com), industry in urban areas (only in SEZs, EOUs, Industrial Estates, designated industrial areas as per master plan), e-commerce (for essential commodities), private offices (with 33% staff), educational institutions for office work, online teaching and book distribution (with 33% staff), government offices (defence, health, police, fire), the central government offices (100% for deputy secretary and above while 33% for junior staff), Punjab government offices (as per DoPT instructions), would be allowed. The district magistrate stated that for the above permitted activities, no special curfew permission/pass is required to do the activity. However, the concerned department’s norms, conditions, standard protocols and Covid management guidelines should be strictly followed. For instance, no permission will be required to run industry, to open warehouse or do construction activity but the conditions already imposed, protocols followed by the concerned should be abided with and all health safeguards of Covid-19 should be adhered to without fail. He said that there are no restrictions on vehicles carrying essential goods and no permissions/passes are required for those vehicles. For two wheeler (without pillion) and four wheeler (2 persons and driver) are allowed. He said that no pass is required for government officials, healthcare establishments (hospitals, nursing homes, PHCs, CHCs-both government and private), institution/post-offices, bank, railways, private offices, during duty hours, but they would have to carry their identity card. For shopkeepers (essential services), they need to carry their personal ID card with any document of shops and would be allowed to commute only from 6am to 7am and from 6pm to 7pm, other shopkeepers need to carry their personal ID card with any document of the shops and would be allowed to commute only from 6am to 7am and from 6pm to 7pm, owners of warehouse need to carry their personal ID card with any document of the warehouse, milk vendors would be allowed to commute from 7am to 9am and from 5pm to 7pm. Anyone else having an e-pass would be allowed to commute only between 7am to 7pm. Industrialists/management and owners should be carrying identity card issued by the employer, industrial labour/other labour/workers should carry pass issued by the industrialist/employer/contractor/shopkeeper and would be allowed to commute without pass from 7am to 9am and 5pm to 7pm only. He, however, clarified that the vehicles used for non-work place would be allowed only with an e-pass. He said that citizens can commute on foot without any pass from 7am to 3pm and only one person per family should venture out for essential services/commodities, besides wearing of face mask would be compulsory. The labourers/workers commuting on foot would require a pass issued by the employer and would be allowed to move only from 7am to 9am and from 5pm to 7pm. The DM also ordered that the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall be strictly prohibited between 7pm to 7am. He said that as per the national directives for Covid-19 management guidelines, wearing of face mask in public/workplaces, to maintain social distancing etc. should be strictly followed. Spitting in public places is also punishable. Any violation shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Indian Penal Code 1860. He informed that around 5,000 industries have started their operations in district Ludhiana and a large number of labourers have got back their employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-magistrate-issues-guidelines-regarding-covid-19/articleshow/75588809.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||MCH third government hospital in Kolkata to turn into a Covid facility||KOLKATA: Medical College and Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) will become the third government facility in the city to treat Covid patients after MR Bangur Hospital and the unit on the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) at New Town. The hospital is getting ready to start new admissions. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday tweeted: “Keeping in view the increasing need of ramping up specialised Covid treatment in the state, we have decided to notify Medical College, Kolkata as a full-fledged tertiary level Covid Hospital, which will start functioning from 7th May 2020 onwards.” Keeping in view the increasing need of ramping up specialised COVID treatment in the State, we have decided to noti… https://t.co/sWfi8mtyVU— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) 1588760028000Banerjee also tweeted that the facility will start with 500 beds both for SARI and Covid patients which would be scaled up as per need, in phases and that this will be the 68th dedicated Covid hospital in the state. The facility at Medical College, Kolkata will start with 500 beds (for both COVID and SARI) which would be scaled u… https://t.co/5jhXysmR0t— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) 1588760029000Located at the heart of the city that has around 20 containment areas in its immediate surrounding and also given the number of experienced hands the hospital has, health department officials said this was the need of the hour. Hospital sources said that the administration has been working silently towards converting the hospital into a Covid facility for the past few weeks, but said that it might not be possible to start taking in patients from Thursday. “In fact, we have 550 beds ready for the purpose and we are giving the final touches. And also, we are finalising the duty roster for doctors for the Covid hospitals,” said a source in the hospital. This is the second attempt at designating MCHK as a Covid hospital. The health department towards March-end had tried for the same. But the plan backfired as many in the core Covid team of the hospital wanted the flaws that they pointed out to be corrected first. Ultimately the plan was shelved and MR Bangur Hospital and CNCI were made Covid hospitals. “300 beds at the superspecialty building and 250 more beds at the hospital’s Green Building will be utilised for the purpose,” said a doctor in the hospital. The newly constructed superspecialty building already runs an isolation unit for suspected cases. Sources hinted that 300 beds in the superspecialty building will continue to operate as isolation ward for suspected Covid cases and for SARI patients while the Green Building will be used for treating positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mch-third-govt-hospital-in-city-to-turn-into-a-covid-facility/articleshow/75587173.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Volunteer to get tested, says minister||Madurai: Milk and dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji has urged those coming from other districts to Virudhunagar to voluntarily come forward for Covid-19 testing. The minister inspected the works carried out by officials on Wednesday after a 25-year-old man who arrived from Chennai to Thiruthangal near Sivakasi tested positive. Bhalaji told mediapersons that while district administration officials are working round-the-clock to contain Covid-19, people coming from other districts are testing positive for the disease. Meanwhile, information and publicity minister Kadambur Raju participated in a meeting with officials on Covid-19 prevention works in Tuticorin. He told reporters that 3,700 guest workers in the district had expressed their willingness to travel to their native states. He said that camps with 600 beds have been made ready in the district to quarantine people coming from other districts and states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/volunteer-to-get-tested-says-minister/articleshow/75587166.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Central team to start survey next week in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Two experts from Kolkata-based All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, appointed by the ministry of health to work in tandem with the state health department on the Covid-19 situation, will start their survey next week, starting with Kolkata, before moving to districts. The two public health experts, Aparajita Dasgupta and Leena Banerjee, will work in collaboration with KMC as they assess the ground reality in containment zones. They would study the state figures of Covid-positive patients sent for isolation or treatment and that of contacts traced and quarantined, a source said. They would assess whether enough tests had been carried out. The two will subsequently send a report to the ministry. Earlier, director-professor Madhumita Dobe was chosen to head the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-team-to-start-survey-next-week/articleshow/75587174.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Free inter-district travel by ST for workers, students: State relief minister||MUMBAI: Pressure to finance the travel of migrants may have prompted state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s announcement on Wednesday that Maharashtra will provide free travel on ST buses to workers, students and pilgrims from one district to another. State transport minister Anil Parab, though, said it is a proposal and yet to be cleared. “The state will provide over Rs 20 crore for the purpose and 10,000 ST buses will be ready. The free service can start from Thursday,” he said. Officials said over one lakh people have already moved districts in the past few days. Also, 55,000 people have been evacuated from Maharashtra to other states and around 27,000 have returned. As many as 25 shramik trains have left for other states and two have arrived. Twenty-five of the 100 shramik special trains that have plied so far are from Maharashtra, said officials. Till date, 2.5 lakh e-passes have been issued for those who use their own vehicles. On travel within districts in Maharashtra, the state had earlier clarified that movement will not be allowed in and out of containment zones. And movement to another district from Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad depends on whether containment zone boundaries are marked out. “The transport department will have a portal where stranded people can register their names. Buses will be provided for groups of 20-25,” said Parab, adding the state was considering options like registering at bus depots or on a helpline. Parab added the buses make point-to-point trips. “The nodal officer will be informed so that quarantining can be ensured once buses reach their destination.” Evacuation has begun for migrants travelling to other states, except West Bengal and Karnataka which had refused to accept workers from Maharashtra. Only Madhya Pradesh is paying for train travel of its migrants from Maharashtra. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said the railway minister’s claim that it was bearing 85% of the cost of tickets was not true. “I request the railways to waive the ticket cost of migrants,” he said. UPSC students arriving from Delhi will be moved to Bhusawal by train soon. Many migrants do not have money for tickets and find the application process too tedious. TOI met a group of daily wagers walking towards Karnataka. “We do not have Rs 200 for medical certificates.” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/free-inter-district-travel-by-st-for-workers-students-state-relief-min/articleshow/75586237.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 7, 2020||Kochi||Expat evacuation: Only 1 flight to arrive in Kochi on 1st day||Kochi: Ernakulam district administration in association with government departments and agencies have completed measures for a smooth screening, transportation, hospitalization and quarantining of around 200 passengers arriving in Kochi by a special evacuation flight arranged by Government of India on Thursday. As per original schedule, two flights — one from Doha and other from Abu Dhabi carrying 179 passengers each — would have landed in Kochi on Thursday, but later it was changed and only the flight from Abu Dhabi will arrive here on the first day. Extensive arrangements have been made by central and state health departments, Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial), motor vehicles department (MVD), police and other agencies. “The flight, which is to take off from 5.30pm from Abu Dhabi, is expected to arrive in Kochi by around 9.45pm on Thursday,” an official with health department said. “The flight from Doha that was to arrive in Kochi on Thursday will arrive here only on Saturday. On arrival of the flight, there will be announcements giving instructions to the passengers. Symptomatic patients will be asked to stay inside the aircraft while asymptomatic passengers will be asked to deboard. They will be screened by health workers and doctors. If there are any symptoms, such passengers will be taken to hospitals for isolation. Others will be taken to quarantine facilities arranged by the government using KSRTC buses,” the official said. “Then, symptomatic passengers will be asked to deboard the plane. They will be screened at an isolation facility inside the airport. Later, they will be sent to immigration area specially arranged for such passengers. From there, symptomatic passengers will be asked to come out of the airport via a separate corridor and will be shifted to hospitals,” he said. KSRTC buses from the airport will ply for shifting passengers to their home districts. Police also have made adequate measures to ensure security and smooth transportation. Hibi Eden MP has handed over thermal temperature screening system to the authorities. This system will be installed at the exit points of the airport. The system with camera, sensor and LED display system will capture the images of the passenger when he or she passes by. On showing the hand near the sensors, the machine will record the passenger’s temperature. Beep sound will be generated so as to alter the authorities if the temperature of a passenger is above normal. Defence Research and Development Organization in association with district administration has developed an ultraviolent disinfectant. This will disinfect the baggage of the passengers. The Air India pilots and cabin crew of the first batch of evacuation flight were imparted training on infection-control practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/expat-evacuation-only-1-flight-to-arrive-in-kochi-on-1st-day/articleshow/75584845.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Non-essentials standalone shops opened, little demand makes traders unhappy||Done Kolhapur: As the standalone shops selling non-essentials have opened in the city, the traders were disappointed with the low demand on Wednesday. However, the shops in market complexes continued to remain closed. The local administration has given permission for the traders to open their shops maintaining the odd-even formula to ensure there is no rush of people. The masks and sanitisers were provided to the staff and markings were done outside the shops. The traders were expecting more demand for non-essential items but most of the traders closed their shops with no business or very less business. Ajit Kothari, president of the electrical association, said, “There was no demand for non-essentials. Though items such as the spare parts of the household and kitchen appliances were in demand. At present, there is less flow of cash since a lot of people are out of work since the last one and half months. The shops which were supposed to be open on even days were open on Wednesday.” The traders are sitting on a huge quantity of unsold items. Meanwhile, the liquor shops witnessed little less rush compared to the last two days after they opened. The liquor shop owners said that it is difficult to control the crowd at the end of the trading hours. The liquor shop owners have been asked to shut the shops by 6pm. One of the liquor shop operators said, “In the last one hour, it gets crowded. We are going to ensure that those standing in the queue for one hour before the end of trading time get the liquor. The customers are buying in large quantity as they believe that shops may close again.” “We are ensuring that adequate stock is available with us. However, if the areas where liquor is manufactured, reports Covid-19 cases, the supply may stop,” said the owner requesting anonymity. The salon shops in the city remained close. Since there are travel restrictions, not many people are stepping out to buy things. The traders’ body has asked the traders to shut the shops early as they can reach home before 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/non-essentials-standalone-shops-opened-little-demand-makes-traders-unhappy/articleshow/75584835.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor sale: Ytl goes on-off; from Friday in Amt rural||YAVATMAL/AMRAVATI: Hopes of thousands of tipplers of getting their regular quota of booze from Wednesday were short-lived as Yavatmal district administration, which had allowed sale of liquor between 8am and 12 noon in all 16 tehsils barring Yavatmal municipal council limits, reversed the decision within hours. In the neighbouring Amravati district, collector Shailesh Naval has okayed reopening of liquor shops in rural parts, outside the containment area, from Friday. Both districts are in the Red Zone. Taking note of a Covid positive patient being reported from Ner municipal council area, the administration re-imposed the ban on sale of liquor in entire district through a fresh notification issued in the evening. Earlier in the day, chaotic scenes and violation of social distancing norms were witnessed as a large number of people thronged a liquor shop in Wani, the only one which opened for business on Wednesday morning. The shop on Sujata Talkies premises saw brisk business. There was heavy rush of tipplers, many of whom bought maximum quantity of liquor allowed. Police personnel were deployed to control the crowd. Several persons had to return empty-handed as the shop was allowed to operate till 12 noon only. Booze lovers in Amravati will, however, have to wait as the administration has decided to allow reopening of wine shops only after owners comply with the rules and conditions laid down by the state excise department. Reacting to allowing sale of liquor in rural parts only, Nitin Mohod, president of Amravati District Permit Room & Bar Association, demanded that besides wine shops, permit rooms should also be allowed to sale sealed bottles at MRP. “There are only 13 wine shops in the rural belt and there is a possibility of people making heavy rush as citizens here too are likely to crowd rural shops. If permit rooms are allowed to sell sealed bottles at MRP, this rush can be decentralized as there are 300 bars and permit rooms in the district. This way social distancing can also be ensured,” he argued. To control crowding, administration has asked shop owners to erect barricades in front of the shops. The shops will operate between 8am and 3pm and entertain 350 customers a day, who will have to fill up a form and get a coupon first. Naval also announced certain relaxations to businesses in the city. Keeping the main city markets closed, he has permitted single shops, colony shops and shops in lanes to open between 7am and 3pm from Thursday. Banks will be allowed to function between 9am and 3pm. However, this concession will not be offered to areas under containment zones, he clarified. Naval said that irrespective of the concessions, all shops and businesses in the district shall remain shut from 3pm of Saturday to 7am of Monday as part of janata curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-sale-ytl-goes-on-off-from-fri-in-amt-rural/articleshow/75587878.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mysuru||Combing op launched to chase tiger back to Kundakere forests||Lakshmikantha.BK Mysuru: In an effort to chase a four-year-old tiger back to the forests, a massive combing operation has been launched near Kundakere forest range close to the Tamil Nadu border on Wednesday. According to sources, forest officials from Bandipur Tiger Reserve are using three camp elephants for the operation. The tiger has reportedly been sighted in Kadaburu, Chirakanahalli, Kundakere and Upakara villages on the fringes of Kundakere forest range. Villagers had complained that the tiger had killed at least six cattle while they were grazing near the forests in the past few days. The foresters have taken the help of three elephants – Ganesh, Jayaprakash and Krishna — from Rampura elephant camp. A forester told TOI that a male and a female tiger either from Moolehole or Omkara forest range had entered Kundakere forest range recently which is the territory of another male tiger. The young male is seeking a place to settle and is trying to establish its own territory. “As there are no agricultural activities in nearby fields, the area has turned like a forest. The tiger which is taking shelter near the fields is attacking cattle which are left there by the villagers for grazing. When villagers noticed that the tiger was hunting their cattle, they started chasing it away, but it still returns to hunt in few days,” said a forest officer. The last cattle killed by the tiger was on April 27. “On May 5, it has killed a goat. We had conducted a study and found that the tiger is trying to establish its territory. The area is adjacent to Tamil Nadu forest and Chamarajanagar and Hanuru forest divisions. We are setting up a base camp and are trying to chase the tiger back to forests using elephants,” the officer said.  K Paramesh, assistant conservator of forests, Gundlupet division, told TOI that nearly 12 local youths led by Srikanta are doing street plays in the villages on forest fringes to create awareness on man-animal conflicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/combing-op-launched-to-chase-tiger-back-to-kundakere-forests/articleshow/75584836.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Varanasi||TJ Jaunpur chief dies of suspected cardiac arrest||VARANASI: Tablighi Jamaat’s ‘amir’ (district chief) for Jaunpur, Naseem Ahmad, died at the Jaunpur district hospital on Wednesday of suspected cardiac arrest. Ahmad, a heart patient, was lodged at a temporary jail in the district after his arrest in first week of April for illegally harbouring foreign nationals and was shifted to the hospital after his condition deteriorated in the morning. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Ahmad, who was booked in a case of arranging shelter for TJ attendees, including 14 Bangladeshis, without reporting their presence to the district administration, was a heart patient and was hospitalised twice in past nine days. Cardiac arrest is suspected as reason for death. Jaunpur police has sent his body for postmortem.” According to officials, Ahmad, a native of Firozpur in Jaunpur, had returned from Delhi after attending TJ’s markaj at Nizamuddin on March 9. After it, a batch of 16 TJ attendees including 14 Bangladeshi had reached Jaunpur. These 16 TJ attendees initially stayed at Bada Masjid in city area. But, when police intensified drive against TJ attendees present in Jaunpur district without informing the administration and police, Ahmad arranged a shelter for them near Lal Masjid in Saraikhwaja police station area limits. On March 31, Saraikhwaja police arrested 14 Bangladeshis along with Yasin Ansari of Jharkhand and Mohd Abul Motalib of West Bengal. All these persons were booked under appropriate sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, Passport Act and Foreigners Act. The commissioner said, “During investigation it came to light that Ahmad had arranged shelter for them, after which a case was lodged against him and he was arrested. Initially, Ahmad was kept in quarantine centre where his COVID-19 test had also been conducted and he was found uninfected,” he said adding, “later, he was sent to a temporary jail created in a school premises by Jaunpur administration for epidemic offenders.” “On April 28, the health condition of Ahmad deteriorated and he was admitted to the district hospital and also sent to BHU hospital for proper check-up,” the commissioner said adding, “following improvement in his condition he was sent back to the temporary jail. He was admitted again to Jaunpur district hospital on April 30, from where he was discharged after improvement in his condition.” “Ahmad’s health condition deteriorated again on Wednesday morning and he was rushed to the district hospital, where he later died,” the commissioner said while mentioning cardiac arrest as suspected as reason of his death. His body has been sent for postmortem, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tj-jaunpur-chief-dies-of-suspected-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/75584158.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 7, 2020||Allahabad||Corona victim’s funeral shifted to ghat after protest||Prayagraj: The district administration had to shift a 47-year-old civil engineer’s funeral, who died of Covid-19 (novel coronavirus), from an electronic crematorium to Phaphamu Ghat on Wednesday, following protests from residents of Shankarghat, Teliyarganj and adjoining areas. Prayagraj reported its first Covid-19 casualty when a Lukerganj-based man, who tested positive for the virus on May 1, died on Tuesday night in Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital’s isolation ward. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “ Initially, the victim was to be cremated at the electric cremation in Shankarghat. However, as residents of Shankarghat, Teliyarganj and adjoining areas came to know about the cremation, they started protesting. They were led by a corporator and started pressuring officials to not cremate the man in Shankarghat, as it had been declared a novel coronavirus hotspot.” In April last week, a 37-year-old resident of Shankarghat tested positive for Covid-19. He had travelled along with a patient in a train coach in March first week. He is currently undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa. “Later, the civil engineer was cremated at Phaphamau Ghat around 2 pm. Apart from administrative, police and health officials, five members of his family were also present there. The cremation was also video-graphed,” said Sahai. After being diagnosed with the disease on May 1, the engineer was initially admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital and was later shifted to SRN Hospital on May 3. Health department officials said that the patient was also suffering from hypertension and he was put on ventilator support after his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. His wife, mother in -law and two other family members also tested Covid-19 positive last week. Doctors said that the man was responding to the treatment, but his condition became critical late Tuesday night. His wife (37 years) was first taken to the special hospital set up for Covid-19 patients in Kotwa and was later shifted to SRN Hospital’s isolation ward. Doctors said her condition was stable. Meanwhile, the locality where the man lived in Lukerganj was sealed by the district administration and officials are looking for suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/corona-victims-funeral-shifted-to-ghat-after-protest/articleshow/75584480.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Govt grocery kits sold for Rs 6 crore: Minister||Madurai: Grocery kit containing 19 items introduced by the state government recently has sold out to a tune of Rs 6 crore so far indicating the success of the program, said minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju. The minister inspected Amma canteen functioning at Palanganatham on Wednesday. Talking to the newsmen he said that the grocery kit was introduced to provide essential things at low cost compared to the market price. It also helped to bring down the price of essential commodities, which soared due to demand, he said. Tamil Nadu is the only state which provides free rice, dhal and oil through the public distribution system. People are supplied with adequate rice through the PDS shops and the government ensures that quality products are being supplied to the public. If a family purchases 20 kg of rice, it will get 30 kg of rice, the minister stated. He added that 5.05 lakh people have been benefitted through Amma canteen since the lockdown. Totally 82,160 eggs have been given at free of cost. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-grocery-kits-sold-for-rs-6-crore-minister/articleshow/75587177.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Nearly 5 lakh workers sign up to go home; 368 from Nepal, Bangladesh||Seeking to return home at the earliest, about 4.88 migrant labourers have registered themselves with the state authorities — among them are 368 workers from Bangladesh and Nepal who are living in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi and Udupi. The state government now faces the massive task of screening, accommodating and transporting this workforce to different destinations; as for workers from the neighbouring countries, it will have to coordinate with the Centre. The labourers have registered their names with police, revenue department and other officials in their districts, requesting transport facilities to return to their hometowns and villages as they have no jobs or income due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, CM BS Yediyurappa appealed to migrant workers for the second time in four days, asking them to stay back and wait for work to resume. “I appeal to labourers with folded hands, don’t pay heed to any speculation. It is the responsibility of the government that you get your old jobs back. Don’t make a hasty decision to return home. Stay here and work, as you have so far,” he said. At a meeting with builders and officials, he said there was a need to restart businesses, construction and other industrial activities in the state, and, control “unnecessary travel” of workers. According to trade unions, there are around 8 lakh labourers in the state. Among those who have registered to return home, more than 2 lakh are from north Indian states. Workers from Odisha top the list — the CM has already assured his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that they would be looked after and moved safely. Bihar comes a close second. Three trains have already transported workers to Bihar while one has headed for Bhubaneswar. “We are worried about providing food and shelter to such a large number of labourers,” labour minister Shivaram Hebbar told TOI. “Once we finish the task of transporting labourers within the state, we will look into the issue of transporting labourers of other states from Karnataka. As far as labourers from Bangladesh and Nepal are concerned, the central government is looking into it. An exclusive department is handling issues related to labourers from neighbouring countries.” Secretary in the labour department P Manivannan said inter-state transportation has begun. Between May 3 and May 4, six trains headed for Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan with more than 7,100 workers. “We are collecting data of migrant labourers for future reference as well. The Centre will look after transportation of labourers from neighbouring countries.” Mahesh Pattar, state secretary for Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said Karnataka should follow the example of Telangana, Kerala and other states in sending back migrant workers by arranging for more trains. “The state should not delay this further. The Centre should intervene and expedite their journey home. The government must ensure free food, testing and transportation for the workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nearly-5-lakh-workers-sign-up-to-go-home-368-from-nepal-bangladesh/articleshow/75581747.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Cotton area doubled, but farmers unsure of getting fair price||TRICHY: Cotton cultivation in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam and Trichy has been nearly doubled by area this year compared to last year. Encouraged by the fair price announced last year for cotton, farmers have raised the crop on about 71,000 acres this year. As the harvest season is nearing, farmers have raised apprehensions about getting a reasonable price. The entire textile industry is in a crisis as factories have shut and production of yarn came to a halt in the wake of nationwide lockdown. Farmers from the delta districts have started to migrate from paddy to other cash crops five years ago when the state was reeling under severe water shortage. Cotton was cultivated in 46,657 acres last year and it has increased to 71,552 acres this year. Water consumption and maintenance cost is less for cotton compared to paddy. Moreover, the return is high. Total cost would come around Rs 30,000 per acre, while the return is Rs 1.5 lakh. Though the time of sowing and harvesting varies is different areas, farmers in delta usually take the cultivation as a summer crop, officials from the agriculture department said. All these factors have encouraged delta farmers to take up cotton cultivation. In Nagapattinam district, farmers cultivated cotton on 6,250 acres last year, however, it has increased to 12,500 acres the current year, S Panneerselvam, joint director of agriculture, Nagapattinam, said. Valangaiman, Kudavasal, Koradacherry, Nannilam, Tiruvarur and part of Mannargudi are the areas where farmers take up cotton in Tiruvarur district. In Thanjavur, Papanasam and Thiruvidaimaruthur are popular for cotton cultivation. In Trichy district, the total cultivated area last year was 21,000 acres, while it has been increased to 25,000 this year, officials from the agriculture department said. P S Masilamani from Tiruvarur has raised cotton in five acres. Last year he sold cotton for Rs 5,500, per quintal he said. “We were hopeful that we would be able to get a better price this year. But the situation is looking bleak. The textile sector also has suffered huge loss due to the lockdown. We are worrying whether we would be able to sell our produce,” he added. R Manoharan, textile owner from Karur, said that their buyers have cancelled earlier orders and they don’t know when they would get next orders. “We are keeping our fingers crossed. We doubt whether we would get lakhs of rupees due by our buyers. Spinning mills, dying units and everything connected with the sector is affected. So, this would ultimately affect procurement of raw cotton from farmers,” he added. Meanwhile, cotton farmers from Perambalur have started cultivating maize, K Ganesan, joint director of agriculture, Perambalur, said. “Cotton was cultivated on 40,000 acres and now it has reduced by 50%. When compared to cotton, input cost, and maintenance is less for short-term crop,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cotton-area-doubled-but-farmers-unsure-of-getting-fair-price/articleshow/75587178.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Soon, ‘optimised containment zone’ to ensure milder curbs in Satara district||Kolhapur: Satara city and district will henceforth have ‘optimised containment zones’ and only the area in which a Covid-positive patient has moved will be sealed. “The ‘optimised zones’ will be formed based on the lifestyle of the index patient in the respective area,” Satara district collector Shekhar Singh told TOI on Wednesday. According to the earlier guidelines, 3km radius should be declared as containment zone while 5km as buffer zone from a positive patient’s residence. Singh said the optimised containment zone guidelines were received from the Union government on May 1 while the state government guidelines were received on May 3. “The current containment zones in the city and district will be changed into an optimised containment zone soon,” he said. According to the collector, there will be no movement of vehicles in the present containment zones, nor shops will be allowed to open. In the non-containment zones, private vehicle movement is allowed from 7 am to 7 pm. “Fuel stations will also be allowed to sell petrol and diesel to citizens during these timings. However, only essential services movement will be allowed 7 pm to 7am.” The collector clarified that salons, schools, marriage ceremonies and religious functions will not be allowed anywhere across the district. Malls have been asked to remain shut, except outlets in them selling essential items. In rural areas, all essential and non-essential shops have been allowed to start operations. Box 12 test positive for Covid-19Satara district recorded 12 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total count of such patients to 92, with 76 active cases, the health department said on Wednesday. Swab samples of around 116 people have tested negative for the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/soon-optimised-containment-zone-to-ensure-milder-curbs-in-satara-district/articleshow/75584849.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 7, 2020||Varanasi||Shramik spl train from Guj brings 1,235 migrants||Varanasi: A Shramik Special train with 1,235 migrants onboard arrived at the Ballia junction from Rajkot, Gujarat, on Wednesday. The passengers said no fare was charged from them for travelling in the train. During screening 22 labourers were found suffering from high fever and were sent to the quarantine centre while one of them was admitted to isolation ward. The remaining migrant workers were sent to their home districts in buses. Much before the Shramik Special train reached Ballia junction at 8.10am, district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi and a posse of officials started inspecting all arrangements of taking out passengers from the station while maintaining social distancing, their screening by health department officials and district wise buses for their further journey. The passengers were screened by 12 teams of health department stationed there. The district nodal officer (epidemic) Dr Jiyaul Huda said, “During the screening of body temperature, 22 migrant workers were found suffering from fever. Among the 22, one labourer from Ghazipur had high fever hence he was immediately sent to isolation ward of district hospital, while other 21 were rushed to quarantine centre.” “There samples are being collected and will be sent to lab. Once the reports arrive, then it will be decided whether they will be kept in quarantine centre in Ballia or at their home districts,” he added. They were also instructed to stay in home quarantine for 21 days after reaching home. The migrants then queued up for boarding buses for their destinations. Dhananjay of Ghazipur said, “No fare was charged from us for boarding the train at Rajkot. We were served food packets at the time of boarding the train, and then at Jaipur and Amritsar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/shramik-spl-train-from-guj-brings-1235-migrants/articleshow/75584180.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Unorganized sector badly hit: Study||Thiruvananthapuram: A study conducted among people in the unorganized sector in the district paints a grim picture of their financial situation during the period of lockdown. As per the study conducted by CAPSULE (Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics), an independent forum part of Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad, 85.5 % people in the unorganized sector has informed that either their income has fully stopped or there is a major decline. The change in income during the lockdown period has affected the lifestyle of around 59% of the respondents who participated in the survey. Around 44% admitted that they borrowed money for daily expenses and 48% said that they are on debt during the lockdown.  The study was conducted among 284 persons in unorganized sectors such as daily wage labourers, employees of private firms, people running small businesses, self employed and those engaged in employment guarantee schemes. Among them, 118 were women and 166 men. More than 94% of the participants stayed at home during the lockdown. Around 93% participants opined that lockdown would bring poverty and troubles for them. About 84% expressed satisfaction over getting the necessary services such as free ration during the period. Among women, around 94% admitted that they faced serious financial crisis during lockdown and expected the situation to turn grave in future. Consecutive sampling and self-reporting were the techniques used for the survey conducted during April 26 to 29.  Around 55 types of employees in unorganized sectors were selected for the study. It was conducted in the rural, urban, hilly and coastal areas in the district. CAPSULE chairman Dr U Nandakumar said that they are planning to expand the study across the state so that it could influence policymakers to device better plans to tackle the crisis. “I read in TOI the comment of economist Abhijit Banerjee that bottom 60% of population should be given cash at the time of crisis. Our study too echoes that. People are worried as they don’t have money in their hands. It is important to transfer money into their hands to tide over the crisis period,” he said. Most participants said that they depended on news on TV and in print media for Covid-19-related information. While 89% regularly watch news on TV, 72% read newspapers. While 66% expressed worry over their future, 60% commented that their kids are happy during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/unorganized-sector-badly-hit-study/articleshow/75586242.cms||Jisha Surya
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Website floated for Bengal e-passes||The state has asked those stranded outside Bengal to register their details on the Egiye Bangla website. Anyone seeking an entry into the state will have to collect an electronic pass from the website first. Those stuck outside the state, but have their own vehicle, will also need the e-passes. Workers who have already registered on the Sneher Parash app will have to enter their names on the website afresh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/website-floated-for-bengal-e-passes/articleshow/75587855.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||TN Chamber flays move to increase fuel prices||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) on Wednesday flayed the move by the central and state governments to hike fuel prices. Prices were hiked by Rs.10 per litre for petrol and Rs.13 per litre for diesel by the Centre on Wednesday by increasing the additional excise duty, road and infrastructure cess and VAT. The state government had already increased the prices of fuels on Sunday. Petrol and diesel prices were fixed in India when the international crude oil prices stood at 70 dollars per barrel. Now the prices have plummeted to 30 dollars per barrel but the prices in India have not dropped. The chamber held that petrol and diesel constituted the real fulcrum of our production. Hike in petrol and diesel prices at this juncture will further jack up the prices of all essential goods which will affect the public in this lockdown period The chamber also said that the lockdown imposed by the government was adversely affecting the industries. In a press statement, president of the body, N Jegatheesan, said that the Covid-19 lockdown declared by the state and central governments, has affected the trade, industry and MSME units in the country. The economic growth has already stagnated and issues like rising unemployment ratio, crashing of the stock market and the falling Indian rupee have further accentuated woes. Manufacturers and traders have been put through severe mental stress and acute financial strain. In addition, the livelihood of millions of those employed in the MSME sector have been affected. Employers are finding it difficult to pay wages as their units have been shut down. Hence, it is imperative that the government immediately withdraws the unjustified hike in excise duty and road infrastructure cess and bring down the prices of petrol and diesel and bring in all petroleum products within the ambit of GST. We request the central and state governments to take immediate action in this regard, Jegatheesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-chamber-flays-move-to-increase-fuel-prices/articleshow/75587180.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Construction workers call for fast disbursal of relief||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu state construction workers’ association has urged the government to release the first instalment of Rs 1,000 to be given as compensation to construction workers during the lockdown period. Madurai district member of the association, R Ganeshan, submitted a petition in this regard to collector Dr T G Vinay on Wednesday. The construction industry has come to a standstill, and many workers are suffering. The relief of groceries through PDS shops and a mere Rs 1,000 is not going to help many families as their needs are much more. Meanwhile, only 80% of the workers have received the groceries and many are yet to receive the first instalment given to members registered with the welfare board. The instalments for May and June should also be released without further delay, added Ganeshan. Tamil Nadu has about 75 lakh construction workers and about 30 lakh have registered with the welfare board. But, just over 12 lakh registrations are active. The welfare measures should be given to all and the relief amount should be increased to Rs 10,000, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/construction-workers-call-for-fast-disbursal-of-relief/articleshow/75587186.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 77 held for clash over cremation in Anand district||VADODARA/ ANAND: Altogether 71 accused were arrested in connection to Tuesday’s late night rioting in Vallabh Vidyanagar town of Anand district. The town witnessed violence after a mob of locals clashed with the police, pelted stones on the cops and civic body officials and damaged vehicles raising objections to the cremation of a Covid-19 patient at a crematorium located in Hariomnagar society. Two policemen and an ambulance driver were injured in the attack. The body of the 63-year-old Shantilal Rana, who was a resident of Mirkui Wado area of coastal town Khambhat, was waiting for cremation for 72 hours as there was nobody from Rana’s immediate family who could perform the final rites. All the other family members of the victim too tested positive of coronavirus. Rana, who also have co-morbid conditions, tested positive of Covid though his repeat test had turned out to be negative. Health officials said he passed away on May 3 at the Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. When the team of officials reached the electric crematorium, locals surrounded them claiming that the cremation will spread coronavirus in their area. The officials tried to convince them that they were following all safety protocols and guidelines, but the mob did not listen to their advice. “When the police reached the spot, the mob turned violent and started to hurl stones on the security personnel leaving a head constable and a GRD jawan injured,” said Anand district superintendent of police, Ajit Rajian. Before police reached the spot, the mob, armed with sticks and stones, allegedly attacked the ambulance driver and also broke window panes of a car belonging to Khambhat Nagarpalika. The cops had to lob tear gas shells to disperse the mob. After the cops dispersed the mob, the civic team performed the last rites of the victim at the crematorium. “All the 71 accused have been arrested and the situation was immediately brought under control,” Rajian said. The accused have been arrested and booked through two different FIRs on charges of rioting, assault, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder and under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/77-held-for-clash-over-cremation/articleshow/75583896.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kochi||First Shramik train from Alappuzha leaves for Bihar||Alappuzha: A train carrying 1,124 guest labourers who worked in three taluks here left for Bihar from Alappuzha railway station on Tuesday. A total of 1,140 guest workers were ready to go to their home state (549 workers from Ambalappuzha, 557 from Mavelikkara and 34 from Kuttanad taluks). But some of them decided to remain in Alappuzha. So, only 1,124 workers left for Bettiah in Bihar by 5pm on Tuesday. The district administration arranged special KSRTC buses for transporting these labourers to the railway station. Adequate food items were also provided to them in train. The ticket fare per passenger was Rs 930. Alappuzha district collector M Anjanawas at the railway station to see off the guest workers. The district collector refused to accept district Congress committee’s (DCC) financial assistance towards the ticket charge of the guest workers. It provoked the DCC leaders and they staged a protest in front of Alappuzha collectorate. DCC president M Liju said, “The state government should return the guest workers’ money and accept the cheque of Rs 10,60,200 from DCC towards the ticket charge of 1,140 workers. They had been staying here without any job for the past one-and-half months. But they were forced to pay Rs 930 each to travel to their state. The district collector refused to accept it citing she had no such directions from the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/first-shramik-train-from-alappuzha-leaves-for-bihar/articleshow/75562454.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||One dead, 8 new positive cases in Solapur||Kolhapur: Solapur city recorded the death of a police personnel and added eight new positive cases taking the Covid-19 patients tally to 153 till Wednesday. With this, the active number of cases in the city reached 119. According to the health department report, the 57-year-old deceased male from Ekta Nagar area was admitted at the Solapur civil hospital on May 4 evening in a critical condition. He was a Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patient and his swab sample report confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The deceased was identified to be the assistant sub-inspector with the Solapur police department and passed away on Tuesday at around 12.30 am. Meanwhile, two positive patients were identified from Sadar Bazar Lashkar area and Modi Solapur area respectively. While one each was reported from Saibaba chowk, Ekta Nagar, Rahul Gandhi slum, and Siddheshwar Peth area. Out of them, three cases were close contacts of earlier positive patients, while five were Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. The administrative report added that the total number of positive patients in Solapur now has reached 153, with 89 men and 64 women, including ten deaths. The total number of active cases stands at 119. As many as 24 patients have recovered from the infection. On Wednesday the administration received a total of 197 pending swab results, of which eight were positive, while rest 189 were negative. All positive patients were men. Pune divisional commissioner, Deepak Mhaisekar, in his review meet in Solapur said that as many as 39 areas in the city have been spotted as containment zones. The primary source of infection is suspected to have arrived from a hospital. He appealed to citizens, who are having symptoms of the coronavirus to come forward and report it to the health officials for early diagnosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/one-dead-8-new-positive-cases-in-solapur/articleshow/75584877.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||36 people quarantined in Chitradurga||Davanagere: The Chitradurga district administration has quarantined 36 people on Tuesday evening, including 15 Tablighis, after they were medically examined, and the public need not panic over this issue, said Chitradurga deputy commissioner Vinoth Priya R, at a press conference on Wednesday. On April 8, 15 Tablighis from Chitradurga had been to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, and attended a conference held at Chinathpur mosque, but they could not return to Chitradurga, after the event, due to the lockdown being clamped, said the DC. After the lockdown was relaxed, the 15 Tablighis came back to Chitradurga on Tuesday, after obtaining permission from the Ahmedabad district administration. While coming back from Ahmedabad, they passed through Surat, Nashik, Vijayapura and Hospet, and reached Chitradurga in a private bus. They were stopped at a checkpost near Chitradurga, the DC said. Their throat swab samples were collected, immediately after their arrival, for testing, and they were sent for a medical examination, the DC said. Interestingly, the DC said that four of the Tablighis got Covid-19 when they were in Gujarat, but they got cured, and posses certificates issued by the health authorities in Gujarat, stating the same. However, we still sent the throat swabs of all the 15 Tablighis for testing, as a safety measure, the DC said. In addition, 21 tourists from Rajasthan were also quarantined in Chitradurga on Wednesday, when a vehicle carrying them was stopped at a checkpost near Chitradurga town, as they did not have valid passes. Passes have however been arranged for them through the Seva Sindhu Portal, the DC said. “All shops and other commercial establishments will remain shut from 7 pm to 7 am, except for those dealing in essential goods, in Chitradurga district,” said superintendent of police G Radhika||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/36-people-quarantined-in-chitradurga/articleshow/75583238.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||BRTS awaits MHA guideline to resume service||HUBBALLI: South India’s first bus rapid transit system, Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) has suffered a loss of Rs 4.50 crore till date due to lockdown. Even if the district, which is now in orange zone, comes into green zone, it unlikely that BRTS will resume service any time soon. Since the coaches of HDBRTS are air-conditioned, the MHA needs to give special advisory to run the premium buses, said officials. Now, after the easing of lockdown, the life is limping back to normalcy in twin cities and many are now travelling between Hubballi and Dharwad but the absence of transport facility, mainly BRTS service, has left many commuters in trouble. Rajendra Cholan managing director of NWKRTC, told TOI that they are eager to start the operation of buses. “ It all depends on the guidelines of MHA. We are eager to start the BRTS service once we get go-ahead. The service will begin though buses have to run to half the capacity to maintain social distance between passengers. We are making losses and hence have to capture the market. Also, we have to take into account depreciation of vehicles. We are paying salary to the security guards and other staff. Keeping buses idle will not make any sense. Running buses means maintaining the steam of activities.” However, some BRTS officials are of the opinion that running BRTS buses in the present situation only further the losses. So, it is better not to start the premium service. Instead, normal buses can ply between the two cities, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/brts-awaits-mha-guideline-to-resume-service/articleshow/75584901.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Fishing days raised in 31 coastal villages||KANYAKUMARI: The fisheries department in Kanyakumari district has increased the number of fishing days in 31 coastal villages starting Thursday. The decision comes following representations from fishermen and their associations. Till Wednesday, the villages were given turns to go for fishing twice a week from each of the villages. In some villages, where there are more boats, fishermen could go to the sea only once and this hardly helped them sail through the weekly expenses. “We also had to stop the fish landing and sale due to uncontrolled crowds that threw social distancing in the air and posed a threat to the spread of Covid-19,” a fisheries official said. Fishermen associations said the crowd could be reduced if the number of fishing days is increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishing-days-raised-in-31-coastal-villages/articleshow/75587189.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Allahabad||Lucknow bench of HC not to reopen on May 8||PRAYAGRAJ: The opening of High Court at Lucknow from May 8 has been deferred by an order of the Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court. However, the high court at Allahabad will reopen on May 8 and some guidelines have been issued by th1e high court administration in this regard. In a notification issued by senior registrar of High Court at Lucknow, Manvendra Singh, the registrar general of Allahabad High Court in a letter dated May 6 has informed that Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court Govind Mathur has deferred the order dated May 4, 2020 ,regarding the opening of high court at Lucknow from May 8 for the time being. Earlier, in a notification dated May 4, it was informed that the High Court at Allahabad as well as at Lucknow will reopen from May 8 in two different shifts while adhering to social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lucknow-bench-of-hc-not-to-reopen-on-may-8/articleshow/75584837.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 7, 2020||Allahabad||9 challaned for lockdown breach in city||Prayagraj: Naini police on Wednesday challaned nine persons on the charges of violating lockdown guidelines in trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj. Inspector of Naini police station Awan Kunar said police have challaned nine persons under sections 151,107,116 of the CrPc as they were fighting with each other in Maheva area, thereby violating lockdown norms. He added that police issued a strict warning to them and cautioned them against coming out of their houses. Police said the fined persons were at loggerheads over a petty issue. Meanwhile, police conducted checking at 212 locations including crossings and intersections in the city and arrested over a dozen persons on charges of defying lockdown norms. Besides, seven FIRs were also registered in different police stations of the city. Meanwhile, teams of health department and Prayagraj Municipal Corporation also sanitised over a dozen localities including the likes of Lukerganj, Kaurihar and Nawabganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/9-challaned-for-lockdown-breach-in-city/articleshow/75587458.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stuck with his excavator, migrant worker from UP makes it his home||PUNE: From tin sheds at construction sites to the cold floors of restaurants, the workplace often doubles up as a rent-free home for the migrant labour force in cities. Golu Kumar, a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh, has a similar but rather unusual workplace-cum-home arrangement — his abode for more than 45 days now has been the poclain excavating machine that he operates. Kumar was stranded near Shaniwarwada, where some work was going on, when the nationwide lockdown was announced. The owner of the excavator told him that he could not abandon the machine. He provides Kumar with vegetables and groceries once a week and has also given him a gas cylinder and burner. Kumar cooks and sleeps inside the small driver’s cabin. Kumar came to Pune from UP just 10 days before the lockdown was announced to stay with his uncle at Kondhwa. He would travel daily from Kondhwa to the construction site. Lunch and dinner mainly consists of roti and rice but at times Kumar makes do with onion pakodas. The bonnet of the machine is his bed but mosquitoes regularly ruin his sleep. Still, he prefers the bonnet as it is too hot inside the cabin of the machine. Tragedy struck one night while Kumar was asleep when someone stole his cylinder. “I woke up in the morning and noticed that the cylinder had gone. For the next two days, I lived only on biscuits. The owner of the machine then arranged another cylinder,” he told TOI. Kumar hails from a small village in UP called Fazilpur where his parents work on a farm. He studied till class XII before migrating here in search of work. “I get Rs 200 per day for operating the machine which is mainly used to dig up drainage lines,” Kumar says. While he carries a cellphone, his only means of entertainment is the radio on the phone. He cannot watch movies or other videos as his gadget is not a smartphone. Kumar speaks to his mother every day and the only message she gives him is to return to the village. “I have heard that the government is sending back migrants who wish to leave. They are asking migrants to fill up some forms. But if I go to fill the form, who will look after the machine and my other daily items?” he asks. Watch Pune: Stuck with his excavator, migrant worker from UP makes it his home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stuck-with-his-excavator-migrant-worker-from-up-makes-it-his-home/articleshow/75587926.cms||Mandar Deshpande
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Relaxation in norms helps mango biz||Kolhapur: The relaxation in transport norms by state government during the ongoing lockdown has brought back smiles on the faces of the mango farmers. Though farmers are claiming that they are selling their produce at loss, they are happy that they are at least able to clear their stock. Anand Desai, a farmer based in Ratnagiri, said, “Since last one week we are able to transport mangoes to various parts of the state including Mumbai, Pune, Kolhapur and other important markets. The trucks and tempos are queued up outside the orchards of mango producers in Ratnagiri for transporting mangoes.” He added, “When lockdown was imposed we were worried about how we will clear our stock. We had predicted heavy losses if the government did not grant any relief in transportation of mangoes. We are happy that we are now able to fill the gap of demand and supply of mangoes.” Desia said that owing to the lockdown they have slashed the prices of mangoes by 50% as compared to the last year. Nandkumar Walanju, a city-based trader, said the supply of mangoes to Kolhapur has increased. “The district is receiving different varieties of mangoes including Ratnagiri Hapus, Payari, Lalbag, Totapuri, Madras Hapus, Madras Payari, among other varieties of mangoes from South Indian towns. We are also able to sell all these mangoes arriving in the market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/relaxation-in-norms-helps-mango-biz/articleshow/75584910.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Abortion risky, Covid-19 unpredictable’||AHMEDABAD: The risk factor in terminating the 24-week pregnancy of a 14-year-old rape survivor who also tested positive for Covid-19 is unpredictable, a team of doctors at Civil Hospital informed the Gujarat high court on Wednesday, after the latter sought a medical opinion. The abortion of such an advanced pregnancy is risky, but the doctors conveyed to the court that they would wait for its orders. On the other hand, the HC has decided to wait for the consent of the victim and her guardians, after they have been fully explained the complications involved due to the victim being Covid-19 positive. The teen’s family moved the high court seeking directions to the medical authorities to terminate her unwanted pregnancy. She was examined a report was sent to the HC, which states that “as on today there is pregnancy of 24 weeks and two days and it is a risky procedure for termination of pregnancy. However, if the court passes an order then only the pregnancy can be terminated with risk”. The report also mentioned that the risk factor should be explained to the legal guardian of the victim and the victim herself as she is Covid¬19 positive and, “the infection cannot be predicted due to lack of enough evidence”. On this submission, Justice V B Mayani asked advocate Hardik Dave to explain to the victim and her kin the total risk involved in termination of pregnancy after 24 weeks and the fact that as the victim is Covid-19 positive and the risk factor cannot be properly predicted. The lawyer has been asked to report to the court on Thursday whether the victim and her guardians consented after they were explained the risk involved in detail. The high court is likely to pass an order on Thursday after the consent of the victim and her guardians is conveyed to it. The teen was allegedly raped by a relative and an FIR was lodged at Isanpur police station on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abortion-risky-covid-19-unpredictable/articleshow/75586487.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kanpur||Three-yr-old among 15 new Covid-19 cases||Kanpur: Fifteen more persons including a three-year-old child tested positive for coronavirus in the district on Wednesday, taking the number of such cases in the city to 284. One corona suspect woman patient died while in yet another relief, 15 infected persons were tested negative in their second report. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Ashok Shukla said that sample reports received from Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college stated 14 persons to be positive while KGMU report declared one person to be positive. Of the total 15 fresh cases, a three-year-old kid of a textile trader of Shiv Katra in Chakeri, has been tested positive, besides it included, four members of a family and 10 persons from hotspot areas of the city. “Child’s sample tested positive at the COVID 19 lab of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial medical college. This was probably for the second time, when a three-year-old child has been tested positive for Covid -19. Earlier, three-year-old daughter of a policeman of Raipurwa police station was tested positive. She is undergoing treatment at Kanshiram Trauma Centre in Ramadevi area in Chakeri,” said Dr Shukla. The child is being admitted to the COVID-19 ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, he added. According to him, the child’s five family members had tested positive in the past few days. He further stated that also there is a positive news wherein 15 positive persons have been tested negative in their second sample report. “We are in the process of discharging them soon,” he said. The COVID-19 count in the city is now 284 though the number of active cases remained 248 while 49 people have been discharged after recovery. Meanwhile, a 22-year-old corona suspect girl from the Katherua village of the Bidhnoo died at Covid -19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on Wednesday morning. The family members of the deceased have been placed under home quarantine. She had been suffering from tuberculosis for which her family members approached CHC Bidhnoo on Tuesday evening after she complained of breathlessness. Later, she developed high-grade fever with respiratory illness upon which she was taken to LLR hospital on late Tuesday night. The hospital put her on ventilator at Neuro Science Centre, however the girl died on Wednesday morning. The body was shifetd to mortuary. According to health department sources, doctors at LLR hospital have collected the nasal and throat swab samples of the deceased and the same have been sent to laboratory for conducting the test. Later, the authorities santized the ICU of the Neuro Science Centre, besides sent the girl’s family for compulsory home quarantine. The medical teams are also taking precautions in the Katherua village area. “The body of the deceased is preserved at morgue, after ascertaining the reports only the authorities will decide upon handing over the body to the kin as per the Covid protocol,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-yr-old-among-15-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75587503.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Industries resume work but stare at uncertainty||Trichy: Textile units in Karur as well as a few industries in Trichy resumed work after 45 days following the government’s nod to start work with 50% staff by maintaining social distancing and other norms. While the companies say they are focusing on completing pending orders, they admit that sustaining production would largely depend on how the Covid-19 crisis shapes out. Over 100 of the roughly 400 ancillaries of Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) Trichy have started operations in the district, said R Ilango, president of Trichy district tiny & small-scale industries (Tiditssia). Bringing the workforce appears to be a challenge as many of them are residing in villages close to district borders. “We have taken up the issue with the district collector who has promised to sort out the issue to ensure that workers make it to the units,” he said. Karur district collector T Anbalagan inspected the textile park at Manalmedu. As a limited work force was engaged to resume work, workers were seated in alternate sewing machines to ensure social distancing at the work place. They were offered hand sanitisers while entering the premises apart from face mask. About 400 textile units have obtained permission from the district authorities and resumed operations after a gap of six weeks. These include 300 units in the urban areas and 100-odd in the rural areas which have started operations with 30% and 50% workforce respectively. Permission was given to resume industrial activity to only those units which could make prior arrangements to rule out spread of Covid-19 following norms laid down by the government, the collector said. While an officer at the level of deputy collector has been appointed to monitor these units, action would be initiated if industrial units operate without permission. R Stiffen Babu, executive member, Karur Textile Manufacturing and Export Association, said work has resumed but to keep it going Covid-19 has to be brought under control globally. “We export home textile products to America and European countries which are badly hit now. Manufacturers will get continuous orders only if these countries revive. We are completing pending orders, but payment for the shipment sent is likely to be delayed which will leave us without capital to carry out production,” he said. Industrial units in Sipcot Pudukottai carried out their operations with local workers, said project officer Kannan. “A total of 28 units resumed work on Wednesday and we are expecting more to come forward in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/industries-resume-work-but-stare-at-uncertainty/articleshow/75587197.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai records 20 new cases in a day||MADURAI: Madurai accounted for 20 of the 35 new cases of the novel coronavirus reported from the southern districts on Wednesday taking the region’s total to 499. The twenty were contacts, but this also raised the number of containment areas in Madurai from 25 to 33, including seven new ones in corporation limits. New cases were reported from Ansari Nagar , Tagore Nagar in Sellur, Om Sakthi Nagar in Villapuram , Keeraithura in Villapuram , Fatima Nagar, Subramaniapuram and Avaniapuram . The cases included two children aged 8 and 4 with the latter coming from Thirupathur recently. The eight-year-old boy was from Koodal Pudur while two teenagers were from Melur who had contacts with positive people. Eleven of the cases were women including a 27-year-old from Villapuram who had no contact history. A constable attached to Teppakulam station became the third cop to be infected by Covid-19 from the city police unit. He was posted in Kuppupillai Thoppu containment zone duty. As he tested positive, Bangajam Colony, where he was staying, was brought under containment. His family members and police personnel who were posted for duty along with him have been isolated.In a setback for Tuticorin district, which had discharged all its 26 cases with the last one on April 13, two new cases were reported on Wednesday. The two were a woman from Athanoor village and a man from Malavarayanatham village both of whom had a travel history to Chennai. Dindigul reported nine new cases, all contacts, taking the district’s total to 107.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-records-20-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/75587195.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FRC extends deadline for fee proposals||AHMEDABAD: The Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC), technical, has extended the deadline for self-financed colleges for proposing tuition fees for the next three-year period. The online process for submitting the proposal is to be completed by June 8 and the hard copy to be submitted to the committee latest by June 16, FRC said in a media statement. The colleges are required to send their proposals for next three academic years including 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23. The deadline has been extended given the lockdown in force in respect of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has already announced earlier that there will be no hike in the tuition fees for government as well as self-financed colleges and universities of Gujarat for the academic year in 2020-21. The decision was taken after many self-financed colleges also came forward to keep the fee structure unchanged for one year given the coronavirus pandemic. The institutions are required to submit a three-year proposal following which the committee fixes the final fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frc-extends-deadline-for-fee-proposals/articleshow/75586486.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man held for killing wife over affair||TIRUNELVELI: A construction worker in Tirunelveli district murdered his wife in the early hours of Wednesday. Later, he surrendered before police. The accused identified as Sorimuthu, 32, of Kurichikulam village murdered his wife, Ramlath, 30, over an extramarital affair. Sorimuthu worked as a construction worker in Kerala where he fell in love with Ramlath, married her and returned to his village with her a few years ago. The couple have two children. Ramlath and children lived in Kurichikulam while Sorimuthu worked in Kerala.According to police, the woman developed an extramarital affair with a youth in the village. Sorimuthu’s kin came to know about this and informed him. They also locked her in the house. “On Monday, she went missing. The Thalaiyuthu police registered a woman missing case,” Tirunelveli Rural DSP R Ponnarasu said. Sorimuthu returned to Tirunelveli and managed to reach his wife over phone. “He went to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital for Covid-19 test on Tuesday and met his wife there. They were returning home around 12.30am on Wednesday when he hacked her to death near Athupalam,” the DSP said and added that she suffered three cuts on her neck. The Thalaiyuthu police arrested him after booking him under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC. He will be remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-32-arrested-for-killing-wife/articleshow/75587204.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kanpur||LLR Covid-19 hosp now Level-3 hosp, task force appointed||Kanpur: The state government has designated Covid-19 hospital of LLR hospital, affiliated to GSVM medical college, as level - 3 hospital and also appointed a task force to run it. The 12-member task force has Prof Richa Giri and Dr Saurabh Agarwal as convener and nodal officer, respectively, who would be responsible for treatment of corona infected persons and epidemic containment. On the recommendation of head, department of respiratory medicine, KGMU, Lucknow Prof Suryakant, HoD general medicine Prof Vivek Kumar and officer on special duty Prof R B Kamal and principal, GSVM Dr Aarti Lalchandani, CMS Dr Rita Gupta has been appointed as head of the Isolation ward of the Covid-19 hospital. Similarly, Dr Anand Kumar, Prof Apoorva Agarwal and Prof Yashwant Rao are in charge of the critical care respiratory medicine department, anaesthesia and paediatrics departments, respectively, while head, orthopedic department Prof Sanjay Kala will take care of the triage area. Dr Vinay Kumar of medicine department has been made OPD in charge while chief medical superintendent of LLR Prof R K Maurya, would remain in charge of logistics in the hospital. Dr Vikas Katiyar, Dr Awadhesh Kumar and Dr Samarjeet Kaur have been given responsibility of data management of the hospital while Dr Prem Singh has been entrusted with the management of the Covid hospital. The operation theatre committee consists of Prof Kiran Pandey, head, gynaecology, Prof Sanjay Kumar, head, orthopedic, Dr Manish Singh, head, neurosurgery, Prof Sanjay Kala and Prof Apoorva Agarwal. The government has appointed Jayant Kumar, a trainee IAS, as joint magistrate of the hospital. Meanwhile, Jayant Kumar and Prof Richa Giri, Prof RK Maurya and Prof Saurabh Agarwal visited all the wards, including the flu OPD, Isolation ward, and triage area of the hospital where the doctors informed them about the treatment being given in different wards and sample collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/llr-covid-19-hosp-now-level-3-hosp-task-force-appointed/articleshow/75587508.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 2 of a group playing PUBG held for lockdown breach||AHMEDABAD: Vasna police on late Tuesday held two persons, Vijay Bosaliya and Baldev Parmar, who were playing PUBG with others in the open near Khodiyar Mata temple in Vasna at night. Other participants fled on seeing police. These two were booked for breaking lockdown norms and under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Police said at about 12.30am on Tuesday a patrol team received a control room message that 20-25 men had gathered on the main road near Khodiyar Mata temple and were playing PUBG in the open. “We rushed to the spot. Seeing us arrive most of the men ran away. We managed to catch Bosaliya and Parmar,” said a police official. Vasna police said they are questioning the two about the other players. “We will arrest the others soon,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-of-a-group-playing-pubg-held-for-lockdown-breach/articleshow/75586485.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Lockdown witnesses surge in data usage||VISAKHAPATNAM: Data from the telecom operators show that in the last one and half month internet usage in the state has increased by at least 50%. And homemakers and senior citizens account largely to the surge. “While about 40% of this surge is owing to work-from-home, the rest 60% is owing to non-work related activities. Besides social networking sites, most user, especially women and senior citizens, are using apps such as Netflix, Zee 5 and Aha. Going by the data log of our customers, several of these users are first-time users of such streaming apps. The lockdown has witnessed a shift of preference from televisions to online entertainment apps,” M Satya Prasad, assistant general manager of BSNL, told TOI. Meanwhile, with most corporate employees switching to work-from-home, the traffic on shared network has reduced to a large extent. On the contrary there has been a demand for high speed net connectivity at individual homes. “An employee needs high-speed connectivity at home to get connect with the company’s server. During the lockdown we saw a rise in demand for high speed fiber optic connections,” said Satya Prasad. Use of mobile internet has also witnessed an upward trend. Data usage of the postpaid users has increased considerably. Even prepaid users have been noticed opting for ‘add-on’ data packs. Telecom operators said, such figures clearly indicate that since the lockdown was imposed, people in large numbers have turned to the internet for their work and entertainment need. “The pandemic has made people more dependent on the internet. They have been using it to make payment, access information and entertainment. We have more prepaid customers and they are either buying more add-on data packs or upgrading directly to a pack that gives more data services,” said Patta Sreedhar from Reliance Jio. Speaking to people about how many hours a day they are spending online, the answers were varied. R Neelam, a homemaker from MVP Colony, said, “Someone in the family is always online. For me, I watch a lot of Netflix, but when I am in the kitchen or doing household chores I usually have a music app on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-witnesses-surge-in-data-usage/articleshow/75584954.cms||Arpit Basu
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: UP labourer found hanging behind his factory in Jetpur||RAJKOT: A 45-year-old migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh was found hanging from a tree behind a dyeing unit in Jetpur near Rajkot on Wednesday morning. While police are still investigating the exact reason for the suicide, colleagues of the deceased Raju Lodhi claimed that he was extremely frustrated at not being able to return to his native Majhgaon village in UP. The shortage of foodstuff due to lockdown aggravated his frustration, they said. Lodhi allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a rope which he had tied to a pipe fixed between the trunks of two trees behind the Patel Dyeing Mill where he worked. Rajendra Kumar, one of the co-workers said, that the latter was under severe depression as they were being forced to stay inside the mill compound only. “Many of us including Lodhi wanted to go back to our natives, but the owners refuse to listen to our pleas. If no solution is worked out soon to solve our travelling issues, many of us will be forced to go Lodhi’s way,” Kumar told reporters. P P Jadeja, investigating with Jetpur police station, “We are yet to find the exact reason for the suicide. We will record the statements of Lodhi’s fellow labourers,” said. Lodhi is survived by his wife and four children — two sons and two daughters. “We are also facing shortage of food. There are 40 labourers kept inside the mill forcibly. While we were provided ration kits containing five kilos each of wheat, rice, potatoes and and onions in March, no such help was extended thereafter, ” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/up-labourer-found-hanging-behind-his-factory-in-jetpur/articleshow/75584961.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Activist gifts paddy straw to bull owner||A social activist from Alanganallur in Madurai, on Wednesday, gifted a truck load of paddy straw to a jallikattu bull owner from Sikkandarchavady as he was struggling to take care of his animals due to lockdown. Veerapandi has 17 bulls as he breeds jallikattu bulls for the Tamil cultural sport.However, due to the lockdown in place , Veerapandi has been struggling to take care of his bulls.Pon Kumar, a social activist, who came to know about Veerapandi’s plight, procured paddy straw from a village and delivered it in a truck at Veerapandi’s place on Wednesday. Recently, two acres of paddy was harvested from Maniyanchi village and when Kumar came to know about Veerapandi’s requirement, he decided to procure it and gift it to him.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/activist-gifts-paddy-straw-to-bull-owner/articleshow/75587213.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Accident on KK line: Two more succumb to injuries||Visakhapatnam: Two more workers, who were injured when boulders fell on the Kottavalasa-Kirandul (KK) railway line on Tuesday afternoon, died in the wee hours of Wednesday. The deceased were contract workers K Veeraswamy (54) of Tummakapalli and Ch Suribabu (45) of Konamanivanipalem in S Kota. Railway employee and technician Suresh (40) had died on the spot. Seven persons were injured when boulders fell as they were restoring the badly-damaged railway track. Four other workers are undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Vizag where two of them are said to be in critical condition. The track is expected be restored by Thursday afternoon. The KK line was constructed for transporting iron ore from Kirandul to Vizag. Generally, 12 to 13 trains, with each train having 50-55 bogies, bring the iron ore from Bailadilla in Kirandul every day. Each train can carry around 3,000 tonne of ore. However, due to Covid-19, Waltair division has been operating only three to four trains a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/accident-on-kk-line-two-more-succumb-to-injuries/articleshow/75584969.cms||Siva G
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Private money lender, accomplice booked for attacking man||KOLHAPUR: A private money lender and his accomplice were booked by the Juna Rajwada police on Tuesday for allegedly attacking a man for not repaying the loan amount he had borrowed. Both have been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Maharashtra Moneylending Act, police said. The incident took place in the Devkar Panand area of the city on Tuesday evening, said police, adding that the victim has been identified as Sanjay Sambhaji Ghule (46), a resident of Phulewadi area of the city. He works with a silver ornament making factory based in Kolhapur. “In 2019, Ghule had borrowed a sum of Rs 1 lakh from one of the suspects at a monthly rate of around 10%. He had paid the interest amounting to Rs 25,000 till February 2020. Since March, he could not pay the interest as he was staying at home due to lockdown and had not received his salary. On May 5, when he was roaming near Devkar Panand after relaxation in lockdown rules, the moneylender and his friend approached him and demanded their money back. Ghule told them that he was unable to clear the dues due to lockdown and will clear the dues soon,” police said. “The argument soon turned violent and the suspect attacked Ghule on his head with a sharp weapon before fleeing from the spot,” police added. Soaked in blood, Ghule managed to reach the Juna Rajwada police station and narrated the entire incident to on-duty police officials, said an officer attached with the Juna Rajwada police station. “We immediately admitted Ghule to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital and have booked the duo under relevant sections of the IPC. We have launched a search operation to nab the suspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-money-lender-accomplice-booked-for-attacking-man/articleshow/75584968.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Private schools told not to admit students, collect fees||TRICHY: Trichy district administration has warned schools and colleges against going ahead with admission process (including online) or collecting fees from parents for the ensuing academic year. Following a complaint received by the district administration, district collector S Sivarasu issued a statement saying that lockdown of all educational institutions including coaching centres, schools and colleges in the district will be in effect till further orders from the state government. Therefore, all schools are instructed not to conduct admission process for the academic year 2020-21 or collect fees from parents. The collector also warned of strict action against schools, which are found to be indulging in such activities. While some of the popular schools have already completed admission process to the entry-level classes owing to the overwhelming demand, a private school at Cantonment, Trichy on Wednesday displayed details of admission process to be followed by parents in order to get their children admitted to the school. Asking parents to download application forms from the school website, it also mentioned the dates on which parents need to come in person to submit the applications. While the state government is yet to make any announcement either on admissions or on reopening of schools, TOI on Tuesday reported that some of the city schools are collecting fees during the lockdown period. Some of the city schools have been sending messages to parents asking them to volunteer to pay the fee for the academic year. Some parents even received calls from the schools detailing them on the fee amount and the modes to pay the fees at the earliest. Meanwhile, schools say that money collected as fees is the only mode for schools to pay salaries to their teachers. However, the order of the collector has put a full stop to all such activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/private-schools-told-not-to-admit-students-collect-fees/articleshow/75587216.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Cleaning staff on Covid duty faces social boycott||Kozhikode: P Sicily, a daily wage cleaning staff, is facing protest from her neighbors and residents in her area. Her fault — she completed duty in Covid-19 isolation ward of Kozhikode government medical college hospital converted as Covid speciality hospital. Sicily, 56, said that people asked her to go back to the hospital when she reached her home on May 4. “I reached home after undergoing 14 days of mandatory quarantine and after a gap of more than a month,” she said. Sicily worked at the Covid-19 isolation wards and rooms from April 1 to 10 and underwent 14 days mandatory quarantine at the isolation facility arranged by the Kozhikode government medical college hospital (KGMCH) authorities till April 24. “I rejoined duty in the general ward on April 26 and continued till May 3. But I was greeted with rude words and protest by people in the surrounding areas. Even the junior health inspector in Chelannur asked me to undergo 14 days quarantine,” she said. “We worked wearing PPE kit for six hours without food and water. Only after taking off the protection gear can we even attend to nature’s call. But now I feel more hurt with the rude behavior of people and the health staff than the physical distress I experienced inside the PPE kit,’’ she said. Besides, Sicily was one of the 47 temporary workers at Nipah isolation wards who got a temporary daily wage job for their outstanding contributions during the Nipah outbreak in 2018. “We are not expecting people to welcome us with rose petals and garlands. We only expect people to treat us like normal persons,” she said, adding that she would rejoin duty on May 9. Dr K G Sajeeth Kumar, superintendent of KGMCH, condenmend such incidents. “The staff worked at the isolation ward risking own life and completed 14 days quarantine after 9-day duty. Such people need to get respect from others and not boycott,” he said. “We have made duty arrangements to ensure less exposure to staff deployed at isolation ward with Covid-19 patients. It is being done to avoid chances for hospital-level transmission of disease. We have set up own food and accommodation for quarantined staff attending Covid-19 isolation wards and rooms duty. We will initiate necessary actions on getting a complaint from the staff,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cleaning-staff-on-covid-duty-faces-social-boycott/articleshow/75584977.cms||Sreedevi Chitharanjan
May 7, 2020||India||Big spike forces Ahmedabad into total lockdown till May 15||AHMEDABAD: Desperate times call for desperate measures. The crack-team of IAS officers in-charge of Covid-control in Ahmedabad ordered a stringent lockdown in city where only milk and medicines will be sold from Thursday 6am to May 15. Sale of grocery, vegetables and fruits, which was allowed in lockdown 1 and 2, has also been suspended. Soon after in-charge municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar issued a notification, chaos broke out in most parts of the city as residents joined serpentine queues outside vegetable and grocery stores to stock up for eight days. The lockdown has been intensified to get a grip on the alarming Coronavirus spread in city which accounts for nearly 90% of total deaths and 77% of total Covid-19 cases recorded in Gujarat. In 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, state recorded 380 positive cases and 28 deaths of the Covid-19 positive patients, taking state tally to 6,625 and death toll to 396. Ahmedabad led the tally with 291 cases and 25 deaths. The remainder three fatalities were recorded in Gandhinagar, Sabarkantha and Vadodara. A notification issued by additional chief secretary Gupta, who is overseeing Covid-19 control in Ahmedabad, stated, “Suspected super spreaders like those working in shops like vegetables, fruits, grocery, provisions, supermarkets, ice-cream parlours and people engaged in home delivery of these items as well as app-based food delivery services, become a potent source of infection for many.” There are about 2,000 suspected ‘super-spreaders’ in each zone. The civic authorities have decided to screen about 500 persons in a day in each ward and then test the suspected ones. Following the screening, health card will be provided to the suspected super-spreaders with the date of screening. Intensifying the fight against Covid-19, a ward-wise Covid containment strategy will be prepared for all 48 wards in the city and presented in the meeting on May 7. The civic authorities have also ordered closure of all bank branches except ATMs in the red zones till further notice. Some 600 surveillance teams are currently engaged in Covid-19 screening and these teams would be assigned the task of distributing Covid-care kits in slums.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-spike-forces-ahmedabad-into-total-lockdown-till-may-15/articleshow/75588588.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Nearly five lakh workers sign up to go home; 368 from Nepal, B’desh||Seeking to return home at the earliest, about 4.88 migrant labourers have registered themselves with the state authorities — among them are 368 workers from Bangladesh and Nepal who are living in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi and Udupi. The state government now faces the massive task of screening, accommodating and transporting this work force to different destinations; as for workers from the neighbouring countries, it will have to coordinate with the Centre. The labourers have registered their names with police, revenue department and other officials in their districts, requesting transport facilities to return to their home towns and villages as they have no jobs or income due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, CM BS Yediyurappa appealed to migrant workers for the second time in four days, asking them to stay back and wait for work to resume. “I appeal to labourers with folded hands, don’t pay heed to any speculation. It is the responsibility of the government that you get your old jobs back. Don’t make a hasty decision to return home. Stay here and work, as you have so far,” he said. At a meeting with builders and officials, he said there was a need to restart businesses, construction and other industrial activities in the state, and, control “unnecessary travel” of workers. According to trade unions, there are around 8 lakh labourers in the state. Among those who have registered to return home, more than 2 lakh are from north Indian states. Workers from Odisha top the list — the CM has already assured his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that they would be looked after and moved safely. Bihar comes a close second. Three trains have already transported workers to Bihar while one has headed for Bhubaneswar. “We are worried about providing food and shelter to such a large number of labourers,” labour minister Shivaram Hebbar told TOI. “Once we finish the task of transporting labourers within the state, we will look into the issue of transporting labourers of other states from Karnataka. As far as labourers from Bangladesh and Nepal are concerned, the central government is looking into it. An exclusive department is handling issues related to labourers from neighbouring countries.” Secretary in the labour department P Manivannan said inter-state transportation has begun. Between May 3 and May 4, six trains headed for Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan with more than 7,100 workers. “We are collecting data of migrant labourers for future reference as well. The Centre will look after transportation of labourers from neighbouring countries.” Mahesh Pattar, state secretary for Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said Karnataka should follow the example of Telangana, Kerala and other states in sending back migrant workers by arranging for more trains. “The state should not delay this further. The Centre should intervene and expedite their journey home. The government must ensure free food, testing and transportation for the workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nearly-five-lakh-workers-sign-up-to-go-home-368-from-nepal-bdesh/articleshow/75574800.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cops claim spike in traffic due to liquor sale||Visakhapatnam: Jostling people outside liquor stores, since they were thrown open on May 4, is not the only problem plaguing cops in Visakhapatnam right now. They complained that the traffic has increased on city road since the day, despite the lockdown still in place. “On the first two days of relaxation, people focused on buying liquor. But on Wednesday, there was a veritable traffic congestion,” said a traffic cop at Hanumanthawaka Junction. Traffic was chaotic as police did not have enough manpower at various signals as most of them have been posted at various check-posts on Covid duty. “It seems people are thinking that coronavirus is no longer a threat because the government has relaxed the lockdown and liquor stores are operational again. I was shocked to see so many vehicles on the road on Wednesday,” said a retired teacher M Ananda Rao. In the past 45 days, the city has reported only 12 accidents of which only one was fatal. Whereas on an average, the city reports about 100 accidents in a month. With the lockdown in place, so far, cops have collected more than Rs 2.4 crore in fines, seized more than 4,000 vehicles and arrested around 5,000 people for violating the lockdown. But despite everything, buying liquor seems to have become the new excuse to flout lockdown restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-claim-spike-in-traffic-due-to-liquor-sale/articleshow/75584987.cms||Siva G
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Five members of family in Boloor now affected by Covid-19||Mangaluru: Two more members of a family in Boloor in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The patients (P-674 and P-675) are among three positive cases, other being P-676, reported in the district on a day that also saw a patient, a resident of Uppinangadi (P-325) with a travel history to Delhi get discharged. According to the district administration officials, while P-674 is daughter of P-536, a patient with history of TB meningitis discharged from First Neuro Hospital, a supervised isolation centre, P-675 is her granddaughter. Incidentally, even her son-in-law (P-658) was confirmed positive for the disease on Tuesday and P-579, her husband had tested positive on May 1. In all, five members of the family, all primary contacts of P-536 are now under treatment. In a related development, the third positive patient (P-676) from the district for the day was the daughter of P-390, from Kasba village in Bantwal taluk. Incidentally, P-390 was the first victim of the disease in the district, succumbing on April 19. The mother-in-law of P-390 died on April 23. With this, DK is now placed 10th in the state with 12 active cases. The district has also recorded three deaths due to Covid-19 so far. The day also saw a 39-year-old advocate (P-325) with travel history to Delhi get discharged. He had returned from Delhi on March 28 and was found positive on April 17. His wife who subsequently contracted the disease is undergoing treatment at District Wenlock Hospital, the designated hospital. The district also had six cases of Covid patients from outside the district but treated at the designated hospital here, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/five-members-of-family-in-boloor-now-affected-by-covid-19/articleshow/75583332.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Man commits suicide by hanging from tree in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: A 40-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a tree in a field at Hasur Budruk village, Kagal taluka on Tuesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Kakaso Shantaram Bote and a case of accidental death has been registered with Murgud police station Vidya Jadhav assistant police inspector in-charge of Murgud police station, “After the incident, there were rumours in the village that Bote committed suicide after he quarrelled with the village level vigilance committee. Following this, we visited the village and took detailed information about the incidents from villagers, family, wife, and relatives.” Jadhav said that before the lockdown, Bote had kept his 13-year-old daughter and his brother’s 14-year-old daughter at his relatives’ house in Ichalkaranji. “After the relaxation of lockdown norms, Bote brought them home on Monday. The village committee asked him that he should keep two girls in institutional quarantine as they have come from Ichalkaranji. Bote, as per the witnesses was under the influence of alcohol quarrelled with them and went home with the girls. Later in the night, he also quarrelled with his wife and left home. On Tuesday morning, the villagers found him hanging,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-commits-suicide-by-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/75584995.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||16 more found positive amid reduced number of Covid-19 tests in Vadodara||VADODARA: Sixteen people tested positive for Covid-19 amid reduced number of tests in the city, taking total number of cases up to 457 in Vadodara district. Details furnished by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reveal that the 16 positive cases were reported from 146 samples tested since Tuesday evening. On Monday evening too, results of only 137 samples were available and 20 of these had tested positive. Earlier, SSG Hospital had tested 225 and 228 samples on Sunday and Monday when 36 and 35 people tested positive. The new cases in the city were reported from east, south and north zones. No cases were reported from west zone and areas of Vadodara district outside VMC limits. Out of the 457 cases that have come to light, 11 are from rural areas of the district outside city limits. The fresh cases included a prominent travel operator in the city. The man residing in Fatehgunj was taken to SSG Hospital for treatment. The city did not register any deaths since Tuesday evening due to Covid-19. Six people were discharged on Friday and these included two from military hospital, two from GMERS, Gotri Hospital and two from Covid care centre at High Speed Railway Training Institute. As many as 262 people suffering from Covid-19 continued to receive treatment in various hospitals and care centres in the city. These include 11 people on oxygen and five on ventilators or BiPAP machines. The door-to-door survey by VMC health workers led them to two suspicious cases of Covid-19. The suspects had severe respiratory illnesses or flu-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/16-more-found-positive-amid-reduced-number-of-covid-19-tests-in-city/articleshow/75583930.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||More areas go off limits in Salt Lake, New Town||KOLKATA: Rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the Bidhannagar municipal area — especially in prominent locations like Salt Lake, New Town, Rajarhat, Baguiati and Kestopur — has led to an increase in the containment zones in North 24 Parganas. Even on Wednesday, a stretch of BE Block in New Town was sealed by the cops after a resident at one of the high-rises in the area was tested positive and was hospitalized. “We have sealed the lanes leading to the high-rise and some of the nearby alleys as well. We have shared emergency phone numbers with the residents of the area and have promised all help to providing daily essentials and medical help,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. TimesViewAreas just outside Kolkata Municipal Corporation jurisdiction are as vulnerable to the virus’s spread as areas within KMC limits. Planned development may make it easier to monitor containment zones in Salt Lake and New Town but finally, just like in Kolkata, enforcing agencies and residents have to share the responsibility. Preventing the virus's spread outside containment zones is of utmost importance.Out of the 75 containment zones in North 24 parganas, 41 are within the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, with Salt Lake, New Town, Baguiati and Rajarhat contributing to the most number of sealed zones. In Salt Lake, the first death of a Covid-19 patient who had been staying at a guesthouse till last week before being admitted to a hospital where he died on Sunday, has sparked a fresh scare among the residents of the township. The 73-year-old cancer patient was staying at the Mizoram government-run guesthouse in IB Block for several days before he and another guest were tested positive for the disease. They were admitted to a private hospital on April 30. He died three days later on Sunday while the other person is still critical. “The situation is getting scary now. Several persons in our township have already been infected and now someone closer to our home has also died. We want to seal the entry/exit points to our block so that we are protected from the virus,” said an elderly resident of HB Block, the neighbourhood adjacent to IB Block, which has already been contained by the cops. The civic authorities, too, had been planning something similar for all the neighbouring blocks like GD, HB and IA. But a disagreement with block committee members has put the plan on hold till now, a senior civic official said. “We are now conducting a sanitization drive in the locality and adjoining areas on a regular basis. We are taking all necessary measures and urging people to stay indoors,” said Ward 34 councillor and MMiC (waste management) Devashis Jana. Cops said the opening of offices and business establishments in the area has added to the pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-areas-go-off-limits-in-salt-lake-new-town/articleshow/75587402.cms||Suman Chakraborti
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Seven new Covid-19 cases in Botad, all from community spread||RAJKOT: Seven new Covid positive cases were registered in Botad on Wednesday taking the tally to 48. All the new cases are close contacts of persons who had earlier tested positive and were kept under quarantine in the government facility. Three women, aged 55, 45, 23 years, besides two minor girls, aged 9 and 15 years, tested positive on Wednesday. A 30-year-old man also tested Covid positive on the same day. In Bhavnagar district, six persons tested positive on Wednesday. A 58-year-old woman and her 65-year-old husband from Palitana also tested positive. According to the district administration, the woman is a cancer patient and used to visit an Ahmedabad private hospital for treatment. She visited Ahmedabad on May 1. The district health officials collected samples of the husband-wife duo after the woman developed some symptoms. District development officer V J Baranwal said, “We have traced 24 high-risk contacts of the couple and have quarantined them. The field visit of the area is done by epidemiologist, chief officer and Mamlatdar.” Bhavnagar district has 82 positive cases registered so far, of which 23 have been discharged and 23 people succumbed to the virus. The remaining are under treatment, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-new-cases-in-botad-all-from-community-spread/articleshow/75584992.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Government dole will go to Tasmac shops: Pon Radhakrishnan||KANYAKUMARI: Former Union minister and BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan has said that the opening of Tasmac shops from Thursday will make the tipplers use the dole amount distributed by the government, for liquor and asked the government to reconsider the decision. “People of Tamil Nadu had almost forgotten alcohol. Using this situation, the state government should have enforced total prohibition in a phased manner. But Tasmac outlets will be reopened from Thursday. This comes at a time where there is no money in the hands of the people. The dole given by the government will land in liquor shops,” Radhakrishnan said. He was talking to reporters in Kanyakumari district after distributing rice, vegetables and other relief materials to the economically weaker section on Wednesday. He said that people would also pledge their jewellery and vessels for alcohol. Stating that the lockdown has affected people in the lower strata of the society and industries badly, he said that the state government should consider relaxing the norms. Radhakrishnan said the outbreak due to opening the Koyambedu market in Chennai should be seen as a lesson. Appealing to people to cut down their expenses, Radhakrishnan said that they should help and support each other in this time of crisis. He also appealed to parties not to politicize the situation. Refuting claims that Kasi alias Suji, 26, of Nagercoil who was arrested and detained under Goondas Act for sexually exploiting women, blackmailing and extorting money, is a member of the BJP, he said that no matter whoever he is, the punishment should be severe that nobody repeats such crimes again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-dole-will-go-to-tasmac-shops-pon/articleshow/75587224.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Liquor found in car with exemption pass||AHMEDABAD: Sola police on Tuesday nabbed one Nikunj Patel 30, of Sufalam Apartment of Naranpura with two bottles of liquor from near Damru Circle. A copy of a letter allegedly from the Kalol rural mamlatdar was found in his car, claiming the car was being used to facilitate industrial units and was exempted from lockdown. “We have arrested Patel under relevant sections of prohibition act,” said a senior officer of Sola police station. Police said that when a team was checking vehicles near Damru Circle in Sola they stopped a white car which was driven by Patel. When asked from where he was coming, he couldn’t give any satisfactory answer. On checking his car, cops found two bottles of IMFL and the letter claiming the car was allowed to move in lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquor-found-in-car-with-exemption-pass/articleshow/75586484.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||No case recorded for 3rd consecutive day||Coimbatore: Despite number of Covid-19 cases surging in the state, the district didn’t record a new case for the third day in a row on Wednesday. The public health department confirmed that all the 255-odd samples lifted from the new containment zones —primarily Karumbukadai, Venkitapuram and Kavundampalayam — have tested negative for the virus.The entire Coimbatore region including the Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode did not record a single case on Wednesday. In fact, only Salem and Krishnagiri in the region recorded cases. The public health department has collected samples from around 14 to 15 of the 28 bus drivers who arrived from Koyambedu, and plan to test the remaining on Thursday.So far, around 150 people have been placed under quarantine, around 31 of them in facility quarantine and the remaining 120 of them have been placed under home quarantine. “We are focusing mainly on people arriving from Chennai and Ariyalur. While people from Chennai must undergo facility quarantine for 14 days, people coming from other districts can remain under home quarantine,” collector K Rajamani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-case-recorded-for-3rd-consecutive-day/articleshow/75586338.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mysuru||SI suspended for attending party without intimation||Mysuru: A sub-inspector in Mysuru district was suspended on Wednesday on charges of dereliction of duty. Mysuru SP CY Ryshyanth said that Bettadapura SI Lokesh was suspended and an inquiry has been initiated against him for allegedly leaving the headquarters without intimation. The incident took place a month ago but came to notice recently. The officer had allegedly left for a neighbouring district to attend a party without informing his senior officer, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/si-suspended-for-attending-party-without-intimation/articleshow/75581862.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram reports its 1st positive case, officials begin contact tracing||Visakhapatnam: Covid-19 has finally struck Vizianagaram. The district reported its first positive case on Wednesday. The patient, a 62-year-old woman, hails from Baljipeta mandal in Parvathipuram revenue division of the district. She is currently admitted to a corporate hospital in the city where she is undergoing dialysis. District health officials said the woman came to Vizag for treatment on May 4 during which her sample was sent for testing. After the report came out positive on Wednesday, she was immediately shifted to the quarantine centre of the same hospital. All her contacts are now being traced, including her sons, from whom, officials suspect, she could have contracted the virus. “We are now tracking the contact source. A medical team has already been sent to Baljipeta. Samples of her family members have been taken. All of them have been put in isolation ward. We shall conduct a battery of tests in the area. The focus will be on increasing the sample base here,” Vizianagaram DMHO Dr S V Ramani Kumari told TOI. Baljipeta is an interior mandal located close to Srikakulam. “All traffic flow in and out of the area has been stopped and people have been asked to stay inside their homes,” the DMHO added. The first positive case in Baljipeta has created a sense of fear in the area. “More than anything else, there is this fear as we do not know who will be affected next and why?” said P Kurma Naidu, a local resident. “Things were just getting back to normal. People had started travelling to other areas in search of work. Daily wage workers are going to be hit hard as travel will be restricted,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizianagaram-reports-its-1st-positive-case-officials-begin-contact-tracing/articleshow/75585030.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 7, 2020||Business||KTR roots for relaxing price control norms to boost pharma||Hyderabad: Flagging challenges being faced by the country’s pharma sector, which is playing a crucial role in the global fight against Covid-19, Telangana industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao has urged the Centre to relax price control norms for essential and non-essential medicines and hike drug prices by 10% above the existing caps to provide interim relief to the key sector. In a letter to Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Sadananda Gowda, he has also sought the setting up of a pharma task force to ensure ease of doing business, including regulatory approvals, state government approvals, port-level clearances and manpower deployment clearances in addition to establishing a thinktank comprising industry, academia and government to facilitate innovative thinking and boost pharma R&D. KTR also suggested other short-term remedies for boosting the sector, which comprises nearly 80% MSMEs and has begun experiencing financial stressed due to reduced production capacities, labour shortages, price pressures caused by supply chain issues and maintaining a large skilled workforce on payrolls as a fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. He urged the Centre to not only expedite income tax and GST refunds to pharma companies but also extend a moratorium on tax payments for the next six months, at least for MSME units, to ease the financial stress. KTR has also sought a reduction in GST on APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients) to 12% at par with finished formulations to prevent input tax credit and allow companies to have better working capital in these unprecedented times. “Government of India should also allow bulk drugs exporters to use their excess unutilized GST credit towards payment of their GST liability on imports,” he said. He also urged the Centre to expedite clearance of all incentives under export promotion schemes and offer substantieal export incentives to Indian pharma players to counter the 13% post-Covid-19 export incentives being offered by China to its companies. The other recommendations include expediting port level clearances to ease logistics issues and waiving off port-related costs for at least six months to offer interim relief, maintaining an inventory of critical APIs and formulations for at least three months at government cost. KTR also recommended long term measures to reduce dependence on China for APIs by allowing flexibility to developers for using the grant to develop common infrastructure and basic infrastructure, which will help in lowering cost of land to user industries, and also by building our parks at scale in an integrated fashion instead of multiple small parks. Here he sought promotion of the Hyderabad Pharma City, coming up over 19,333 acres, as the de-facto location for pharmaceutical manufacturing and R&D in India. He also sought a review of the definition of MSMEs by increasing the current investment criteria of Rs 10 crore and having turnover of up to Rs 250 crore as a criteria in addition to investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ktr-roots-for-relaxing-price-control-norms-to-boost-pharma/articleshow/75586332.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Rejuvenating days in hospital for lady cop||Coimbatore: It was on a Friday morning Mangala*, a cop attached to Podanur police station, received a shocking call from the Covid-19 control room informing that she was positive for the novel coronavirus. Her samples were collected for test the previous day.Mangala, who was posted at Sundarapuram check post for a fortnight, had just finished her mandatory seven-day quarantine and reported back to duty. Since she had no symptoms, she thought she heard them wrong. She was one among the six cops who were tested positive for the virus that day.The 42-year-old officer said, “I was in complete denial. I kept wondering how I might have got infected and if I have stopped and touched an infected person’s vehicle or identity card. While I was engrossed in such thoughts, my mind raced to my aged father who is a heart patient, mother who is a diabetic and my two-and-a-half-year-old niece who sleeps cuddling me every night.”The first day, according to her, was filled with full of anxiety.The very next day when she was admitted to PSG Hospitals, along with five other cops, doctors performed a series of tests. “They told me my viral load is really low and I would most likely have no symptoms and that I was just going to be given nutritious food and supplements. Though I was slightly relieved, I was still nervous about the test results.”She said the next 10-11 days in the hospital was rejuvenating. “Since we had no symptoms, we didn’t had to rest mandatorily. So, all the six of us used to walk within the ward every morning and evening. We also made jokes about quarantine and the virus. I used to video call and chat with my family every day to get over that missing feeling. My 20-year-old daughter took over the household chores and cooking, making me proud. The days were spent eating healthy food such as fruits, dal and milk.”The officer, in fact, considers her hospitalization a blessing, because her diet has helped her keep her diabetes at bay. “My sugar levels are perfectly normal now. I have stopped my medications too,” she said. (*Name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rejuvenating-days-in-hospital-for-lady-cop/articleshow/75586330.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Coronavirus: Eight recover in Banaskantha||PALANPUR: Eight more Covid-19 patients were sent home after recovering from Banas Medical College in Palanpur on Wednesday. Executive officer of the hospital, Dr Jawahar Chandani, said so far 22 people have recovered from the infection in the Banaskantha district. Seven of the discharged patients were from Gathaman village while one was from Bhagal. Barring a 60-year-ol man, all those who recovered were less than 55 years of age. Meanwhile, an eight-month-old boy Shrawan Parmar from Aagiyal village, seven km from Himmatnagar, tested positive on Wednesday. His was quarantined in a private hospital after his mother Sumitra tested positive, said Sabarkantha chief district health officer, Rajesh Patel.  In another development, Dharapur Medical College in Patan got for permission to conduct the nCov tests. “The samples from north Gujarat won’t have to be sent to Ahmedabad now,” said Patan DDO DK Parekh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-recover-in-banaskantha/articleshow/75585025.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept for translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur||NAGPUR: Owing to rising tiger numbers and resulting man-animal conflict, Maharashtra forest department has proposed conservation translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur district over three years. “We have sent a proposal in this regard to the state government. It will need approval from state wildlife board headed by chief minister before it is sent to National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA),” said state’s chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar. As per the latest All India Tiger Estimation-2018, Maharashtra has 318 tigers, up from 190 in 2014. Though discussions have been going on for a few years, this is the first time that a formal proposal for translocation has been sent to the government. Kakodkar said Chandrapur district having Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and its buffer Bramhapuri, Central Chanda & Chandrapur divisions including CSTPS itself has 160 tigers and the number is bound to increase. This doesn’t include cubs. Kakodkar said thouogh they had put several options like sending surplus tigers to states wanting them and translocation to areas having good prey base their priority would be to promote natural dispersal by strengthening corridors. “Another choice is to keep some tigers for proposed safaris in the state. We have also asked Gorewada Rescue Centre in the city to expand capacity to accommodate tigers as a stop-gap arrangement,” he added. “We have rapid rescue teams (RRTs) and monitoring is being done. We are also giving subsidized solar power fencing to farmers besides plans are also afoot to install channel fencing near forested villages but unless locals, who are dependent on forest produce and fire wood collection, stop venturing into jungle, problem will persist,” said Kakodkar. On funding the project, Kakodkar said, “Money can be had from CAMPA fund, tiger foundations, state and NTCA funds. We will implement the project in-house with technical help from Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun.” FDCM divisional manager Nandkishore Kale stated they had been asked by PCCF (wildlife) to have more tiger cages. “We have 10 cages now of which eight are occupied. We will need Rs 6 crore to construct another ten. We need new cages for other animals like leopards, monkeys and sloth bear too,” he said. Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre, who pushed the demand for translocation, said, “Due to habitat destruction, tigers are forced to occupy scrub forest areas. Tigresses are breeding even in power plant campus. In 2019, 24 people died in tiger and leopard attacks in Chandrapur district alone.” “Undoubtedly the biggest draw has always been the tigers of TATR. The tiger population in Tadoba is connected to other tiger populations in surrounding forests through the forests of Chandrapur-Gadchiroli districts. It is imperative to translocate tigers elsewhere to control numbers in Chandrapur and conserve them in other landscapes where numbers are scarce,” Dhotre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-for-translocation-of-50-tigers-from-chandrapur/articleshow/75587989.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No health card, veggie vendor booked||AHMEDABAD: Sola police on Tuesday held a vegetable vendor, Hasmukh Dantani, 32, of Gota, for selling vegetables from his handcart near Sola vegetable market without having a health card issued by AMC, and for allowing more than four people to gather around his cart. He was booked for violation of lockdown norms and under Epidemic Diseases Act. Sola police officials said that a patrol team noticed more than four people gathered around Dantani’s handcart. When inquired, Dantani said he didn’t have any AMC-issued health card. “We seized his handcart and booked him for violation of Section 144 and also under the Epidemic Diseases Act . AMC has started screening vegetable vendors for their health and issued health cards to those found fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-health-card-veggie-vendor-booked/articleshow/75586482.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Ponmalai railway workshop ready to resume work today||Trichy: After getting permission from the district collector to resume work at Ponmalai Railway workshop in Trichy on May 7, workshop authorities have done required markings on the floors for the workers to maintain social distance during duty.As part of Covid-19 preventive measures, the district administration has instructed the authorities to run the workshop with 33% of the total strength of employees, which are 1,355 as the total strength is 4,106 workers.To prevent huge number of people gathering at a time at various shops in the workshop, shifts have been aggregated, between 10 am and 5 pm. This apart, a set of instructions have been laid down by the district collector. The authorities have been asked to disinfect the industrial premises and vehicles twice a day. Toilets must be disinfected every hour. Employees should wear masks while maintaining physical distance. The authorities should ensure hand wash facilities.Authorities have been asked to ensure that only medically fit persons, without any co-morbid conditions and below 55 years of age should be called for work in the first phase.A doctor should be made available on call for the units that have up to 200 employees working on the premises, and a part-time doctor should visit once in two days. As per the employee’s roll call, around 742 workers are there with 29 shops and administrative office at the workshop. They could not be called for work as they were above 55 years old.Meanwhile, the railway union functionaries opined that if workers above 55 were not asked to come for duty, the shop could not achieve the required strength of 33%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ponmalai-railway-workshop-ready-to-resume-work-today/articleshow/75587236.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrial units in rural areas gear up to restart operations||Coimbatore: Industries including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in rural areas opened with half of the workforce on Wednesday, after more than a month.Workers cleaned the premises and attended to machines that had been lying idle due to the lockdown. Industry representatives said they followed safety guidelines such as maintaining social distancing and use of masks, soap and hand sanitisers.President of the Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturer’s Welfare Association (Cosiema) P Nallathambi said it will take two days for cleaning and maintenance work. “We have to change oil and coolant in machines and check battery backup of CNC machines. It will take a couple of days to know whether we still have the orders placed prior to the lockdown,” he said. Micro and small jobwork and manufacturing units can employ 10 to 20 workers, half of the workforce, he said. “Shop floor and premises will be sanitised after every shift.”Rural areas have only a limited concentration of micro and small units as most of them are situated in the city limits, said industrialists. Industrial associations have sought permission to open MSME units in city limits also. “We made a representation to the state and are eagerly waiting to open our units. MSMEs are already struggling. With other commercial establishments open in city limits, MSME units also should be allowed to open,” said president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) R Ramamurthy.On Wednesday morning, owners of some micro jobwork units at Ganapathi and Avarampalayam in the city tried to open their units, only to be reprimanded by police. This prompted the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) to come out with a representation seeking opening of units in the city limits.“If MSME units in outer areas can be opened, why not those inside the city limits? There are as many as 25,000 micro and small industrial units in the city limits. If we have to retain our orders, we have to start operation. When other commercial establishments in the city can work, why not industrial units?” asked district president of TACT J James. “The units will ensure safety measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrial-units-in-rural-areas-gear-up-to-restart-operations/articleshow/75586348.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mysuru||4 Covid-19 patients discharged in Mandya, 1 in Mysuru||MYSURU/MANDYA: The fight against the spread of the novel coronavirus in Mysuru and Mandya districts is yielding results. On Wednesday, the two districts didn’t report any Covid-19 case, while five patients undergoing treatment at the respective Covid hospitals in these districts were discharged. Four patients, who got cured, were released in Mandya. There are 17 active cases in Mandya presently. Mandya had 28 Covid-19 cases in total. Mandya deputy commissioner M V Venkatesh visited B Kodagahalli village in Pandavapura taluk, where four people of a family from Mumbai, had tested positive for Covid-19. He encouraged the people to fight the disease together, by strictly observing the lockdown protocols. “Cooperate with us for the next 20 days. We will surely make Mandya district free of the novel coronavirus. Keep us updated on newcomers into your house, and maintain hygiene everywhere,” Venkatesh said. Meanwhile, the active Covid-19 cases in Mysuru came down to 7, after a patient was discharged on Wednesday. The district has not had any Covid-19 case since a week. Mysuru had reported 90 Covid-19 cases, and 83 of the patients have been cured and discharged from the designated Covid hospital here. Currently, only one person is under home quarantine in the district. So far, 4,754 individuals have completed their isolation period of 14 days. Mysuru authorities on Wednesday commenced screening of photo and video journalists, to rule out infection among media personnel. Even police personnel will be tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-mandya-1-in-mysuru/articleshow/75583413.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Tea stall owners appeal for nod to reopen shops||Tea stall owners in the district have urged the state government to give permission to open their shops and save them from falling into deep debts. More than 20,000 people working in over 3,000 stalls in the city and about 5,000 shops throughout Madurai district are rendered penniless due to the prolonged lockdown. Recently, a couple of tea stall owners had committed suicide and if the state does not take steps in to solve the issue, they will end up in trouble, the Madurai Coffee Tea Merchants Association has said. Organiser of the association, M K Mohammed Muhaiyutheen said that each shop will operate in 2 shifts with two people in each shift. Functionaries said that they met local minister Sellur K Raju, who is lifetime member of the association and the collector T G Vinay. Collector has assured to take the issue to the government, they said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tea-stall-owners-appeal-for-nod-to-reopen-shops/articleshow/75587263.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot goes all tech in its Covid-19 fight||RAJKOT: With the help of city traffic police, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has been putting information and communication technology (ICT) to its optimum use to fight the pandemic situation. The ICT has helped the civic body identify positive patients, know about the pattern of its spread and also adopt preventive measures to arrest further growth. Of the total 62 people who tested Covid-19 positive in Rajkot district, 61 cases were under the area of RMC jurisdiction in Rajkot city. RMC claims that use of ICT played a vital role in curbing the spread of the pandemic and also in finding quarantine and lockdown violators. “Identification the Covid-19 hotspots, tracking of quarantined people using mobile application, efficient monitoring to ensure that the lockdown is strictly observed by all citizens of Rajkot was done through the ICT,” said municipal commissioner, Udit Agrawal. Use of GIS mapping RMC has made extensive use of Geographic Information System (GIS) to fight coronavirus. Not only were all the positive cases detected in the city through this technology, but also in cases where samples were collected for testing had been mapped to study the pattern in which the disease was spreading. This helped the civic body to simultaneously adopt preventive measures and also derive at strategies to collect newer samples for testing through study of mapped positive and quarantined cases. Use of mobile app In wake of the pandemic, RMC also developed a mobile application to keep record and track all the people who were put under quarantine at different locations in the city. This made daily reporting and tracing of all such people possible. RMC staff would visit these quarantined people daily and report it on the app. Each visit of the staff member is tracked through their GPS locations. Also, a facility was created at the call centre to receive Covid-related complaints. Efficient monitoring At the existing Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) of RMC, a tool was created to enhance the use of video analytics and artificial intelligence to monitor lockdown violation. It provided details of activities with identification and count of vehicles and people on the road with screenshots. A threshold limit has been set for allowing certain number of vehicles and people on the road, and if it breaches the limit, the tool sends warnings and notifications to the officials. Not only that, it also provides location details along with count of vehicles and people in numeric as well as graphs and charts formats. Covid-19 dashboard RMC’s in-house IT team developed a Covid-19 dashboard as a single platform to visualize and understand all information related to coronavirus situation in the city. From number of positive cases registered, to total number of samples taken for testing as well as number of negative sample results and number of recovered patients to deaths are monitored on the dashboard. It divides pattern of positive cases in the city daily, weekly, in age groups and also gender-wise through graphs and charts for easy understanding and adoption of preventive measures by the authorities. The details of the dashboard are also available in public domain. E-memo to curb indiscipline As spitting in public places, including on roads, can lead to the spread of the virus infection, the RMC started penalizing people by generating e-memo using the ICCC. It also issued e-memos to those who were seen moving on vehicles without masks or not wearing it in public places using the same technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-goes-all-tech-in-its-covid-fight/articleshow/75585063.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Doc & friends feed over 200 migrant workers daily||Visakhapatnam: Extending a helping hand to stranded migrant workers staying in shelters set up by the district administration, a senior doctor with a few friends have been distributing food for free. They have also reached out to police personnel and sanitation workers with personal protective equipment (PPE). Dr Malladi Sarma, professor of pathology in NRI Medical College, had been doing his bit with the help of a few classmates and well-wishers. They have been serving lunch daily to around 250 migrant labourers and destitute at containment zones in Vizag. Speaking to TOI, Dr Sarma said, “Apart from PPE, we also provide snacks, fruits, and buttermilk to the officers of III Town, MVP, IV Town and Dwarakanagar police stations as well as municipal staff.” Elaborating on their initiative to distribute free food, Dr Sarma said, “Procurement of provisions is done at the indoor stadium from donors and distributed to various zones. We had initially picked up one zone at MVP Colony and gradually extended our services to Bheemili and Vepagunta. We cook the meals, arrange them in packets and distribute them directly.” Interestingly, gunpowder sambar is extremely popular among the migrants, especially with those from Jharkhand. “Among the curries served, gunpowder sambar has become popular with migrants from Jharkhand and we can hear them say Sambar wala doctor saab kaa car aya hain. Sab ajao (Sambar carrying doctor’s car has arrived. All of you come over).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/doc-friends-feed-over-200-migrant-workers-daily/articleshow/75585057.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 7, 2020||Kanpur||Wife refuses to give money for liquor, killed||Kanpur: A man allegedly killed his 26-year-old wife after she refused to give him her jewellery for purchasing liquor in Bamruliya village in Farrukhabad disrict on Tuesday. A case has been registered with Nawabganj police station and a hunt has been launched to nab the accused. According to police, Prashant was married to Lakshmi Devi for six years and the couple has a five-year-old son and a three year-old daughter. “Prashant is a liquor addict. He would usually beat his wife while being in inebriated condition,” said a police officer. Prashant would frequently demand money from his wife for liquor, said police. “On Tuesday, as usual, Prashant demanded money from his wife but she refused. He tried to snatch her ear-rings to which she resisted,” said police. “Enraged over this, Prashant hit her with a wooden stick till she fell unconscious and tehn he escaped with her ear-rings,” police said. “Lakshmi bled profusely and succumbed to her injuries,” police said. Her parents lodged complaint at Nawabganj police station. “We have booked Prashant under section 302 (murder) on IPC. Raids are underway to arrest him,” said station house officer Rakesh Kumar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/wife-refuses-to-give-money-for-liquor-killed/articleshow/75587558.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||CPI(ML) seeks action against hatemongers||Coimbatore: The Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) petitioned collector K Rajamani on Wednesday demanding action against those spreading communal hatred on social media platforms. State committee member of CPI(ML) MS Velmurugan said one of the members of an outfit had uploaded a post with divisive content on his Facebook page with intention to create communal tension in the state. While a lot of people had commented in support of the post, only a few others had condemned it, he added.Even though it was posted earlier this month, no action was taken against the person who posted it or to bring down the post, he said. tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpiml-seeks-action-against-hatemongers/articleshow/75586358.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: For Tirupur garment sector, challenges and opportunities||TIRUPUR: The multi-million dollar garment industries in Tirupur kickstarted operations on Wednesday after a gap of more than 40 days. Industry representatives said that about 1,000 garment manufacturing units in urban as well as rural areas reopened with 20% to 25% workforce. Most of the units carried out maintenance and preparatory works while a few jumpstarted production on the very first day of reopening. The workers were subjected to thermal screening at the entrance of the units. They wore masks and maintained physical distancing. “The units will commence production once the maintenance work is over. To start with, we will ready samples for the upcoming season and send them to our buyers. Once they approve, we will go for full-fledged production,” said Tirupur Ëxporters’ Association president Raja M Shanmugam. “The workforce will be increased subsequently.” Some of the allied units like knitting and elastic-making units have also started functioning. The district administration has formed a team of officials to keep watch on the industrial units to ensure that they follow Covid precautions, Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said. The units stare at a slew of challenges and opportunities. The major challenge is that unless the western countries the primary market recovers, the units will not get orders. Industry insiders said there will be a drop in procurement for at least six months since US and much of the European nations are reeling under the Covid crisis. The Tirupur textile cluster has already lost an approximate Rs 2,400 crore of summer exports due to the lockdown. “But this is not the time to worry about losses. Now the biggest challenge is to survive. Only if we survive can we even think about losses,” Shanmugam said. “There is stiff competition from countries like Vietnam and Bangladesh that have started production despite the pandemic. There is a lot to catch up to stay afloat in the market.” At the same time, the units see an opportunity when these countries would shift their orders from China to India. Also, after the Covid phase, Tirupur is likely to diversify into technical and medical textiles. It will also tap the domestic market. “All nations would want to gradually shift their garment sourcing from China to other favored nations, preferably India. Similarly, there is great prosperity for our country in the field of medical and technical textiles,” said Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman R Sakthivel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/for-tirupur-garment-sector-challenges-opportunities/articleshow/75586351.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 7, 2020||Madurai||Shops sealed for flouting norms||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation sealed 28 shops functioning without following social distancing norms in various parts of the city on Wednesday. A team led by zonal sanitation officials sealed seven shops in zone one, six in zone two, 11 in zone three and four in zone four. Shopkeepers in the vicinity were asked to use masks and ensure customers also wear masks while entering the shops. Meanwhile, district collector T G Vinay conducted an inspection at Paravai wholesale market on Tuesday and Wednesday. Based on his instruction, two tea stalls and three vegetable shops were closed on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shops-sealed-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/75587248.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||1 nCoV death, 17 new cases in Kurnool dist||Tirupati: Kurnool reported a Covid death on Wednesday, taking the total number of fatalities in the district to 11. Meanwhile, 17 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, the overall tally shot up to 533 in the last 24 hours. On the brighter side, district collector G Veerapandian said 148 patients have been discharged in the district so far, while 374 patients continue to be under treatment. And while no new cases were reported in Kadapa and Chittoor districts, one case was reported in Anantapur district in the last 24 hours. Of the 17 new cases, 14 belong to Kurnool city, one each from Nandyal, Kodumur and Pagidyala. To test coronavirus cases a COVSACK- swab collection kiosk was inaugurated at the government general hospital by MP Sanjeev Kumar. He said the kiosk will help prevent medical staff on duty from contracting the disease. Kumar, who interacted with the doctors and paramedical staff at the Kurnool GGH and the medical college, reiterated that the state government will initiate necessary steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1-ncov-death-17-new-cases-in-kurnool-dist/articleshow/75585060.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: School extends helping hand to needy students||COIMBATORE: Schools continue to help underprivileged students, whose parents have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown. On Wednesday, T A Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School, a government-aided school at Saibaba Colony in the city, distributed grocery items and provisions to 60 students. Schoolteachers said they had decided to help students, who had lost their parents and those raised by a single parent. The school’s alumni had given grocery items to the students 20 days ago, said T Arulanandam, a teacher. “They gave 50 students rice and dal. So, teachers decided to give them legumes such as horse gram and green gram, which would ensure a protein-rich diet. We also gave them oil, masala and napkins. So far, alumni and teachers together have reached out to 110 students. The alumni have expressed desire to help more needy students.” Earlier, S Annadhanalakshmi, a Tamil teacher at the school, had provided groceries and masks to 100 farm labourers in and around Perur, who had lost livelihoods because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-extends-helping-hand-to-needy-students/articleshow/75586388.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Guest workers should stay, say industrialists||COIMBATORE: Industrialists are confident that guest workers would stay back as industrial activities have resumed in several parts of Coimbatore and Tirupur. “Until recently, neither industrialists nor workers were sure when the industries would be allowed to operate. The workers wanted to go back to their states as they were idle. But the resumption of industrial activities has given a ray of hope to guest workers,” said Raja M Shanmugam, president of Tirupur Exporters’ Association (TEA). Close to 1,000 exporting units have reopened. Even guest workers who wanted to go back to their states until last evening presented for work from Wednesday morning, he said. The exporters association has made extra efforts in coaxing the workers to stay back in the district. “If the workers leave at a time when industries have resumed operations, it would be a big blow to us and it would take at least a year to recover from it. For the workers, if they chose to stay back they would be on top of the priority list, if not, they will have to wait for their chance as others would have replaced them,” he explained. On the first day, most units functioned with 20-25% of workforce and we are confident that the percentage would increase in the upcoming days, he added. K Selvaraj of the South India Mills Association (SIMA) said, “at present, only mills in rural areas have resumed functioning and those mills have employed local workers in larger number than the migrant workers. The actual condition would be known only after the mills in other areas are allowed to operate.” “Instead of depending on the migrant workers, we have to look for an alternative option. It is high time we started employing local workers. Even if we start training them now, they could be turned into skilled labours within a few months,” said R Ramamurthy, president of Codissia. He said they had submitted a proposal to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-should-stay-say-industrialists/articleshow/75586373.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||5 of 8 new cases in dist from Krishna Lanka||Vijayawada: Five out of the eight new Covid-19 positive cases registered in Krishna district on Tuesday were reported from the Krishna Lanka area in Vijayawada. With the new cases, the total number of people who have tested positive for coronavirus in Krishna district is now 286. Despite measures taken by the district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), the steady increase in number of cases from Krishna Lanka has become a matter of concern. Health authorities focused on red zones and buffer zones in the city and new cases registered are close contacts of the Covid-19 positive patients getting treatment at government hospitals. Health wing authorities said that they have completed door to door family surveys in the Krishna Lanka area and identified all primary contacts of Covid-19 patients. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that they are strictly implementing the lockdown and there is no relaxation. “We have noticed that some people are coming on the streets after May 4 assuming that there are some relaxations. Vijayawada has been declared as a red zone and there are no relaxations. We have divided red zones across district into 36 clusters and our of which 20 clusters are situated in Vijayawada city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-of-8-new-cases-in-dist-from-krishna-lanka/articleshow/75585089.cms||Venu Lanka
May 7, 2020||Business||Customers seek extension of motor cover duration due to lockdown||Hyderabad: With the lockdown being extended, motor insurance holders are clamouring for Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to direct insurers to offer some respite such as refund or extension of policy cover duration as they have not driven their vehicles for well over a month but have paid premium for it. “The government has enforced lockdown since March 24 and ever since, people have not been using vehicles for which they would have bought motor insurance policies in advance. It is unfair that on one hand, we are charged for the lockdown period but on the other hand, there are hardly any claims …Therefore, we demand IRDAI instruct insurance companies to extend the policy period, by a duration equivalent to the lockdown period, in the larger interest of consumers,” said Sai Krishna, who has reached out to IRDAI and also floated an online petition in this regard. Industry experts said insurers have reported savings of around Rs 2,200 crore in the last 40-odd days as the number of claims have been very low due to people being grounded at home. However, despite savings, many insurance companies feel there are risks associated even when a vehicle is parked. Another industry expert added that the around 10% hike in the third-party motor insurance premium for the current financial year has been put on hold due to Covid-19. “It means that customers are being offered respite and they have saved that bit,” he said. However, there are insurers who feel customers’ demand are legitimate and have either rolled out certain products as part of IRDAI’s Sandbox project or are working on offers. In fact, in April, Acko General Insurance had offered one-month free extension to customers but sources said it had to be rolled back due to regulatory issues. Shanai Ghosh, CEO & ED, Edelweiss General Insurance said, “The current pandemic has forced everyone to examine discretionary spends…we are aware of our customers’ concerns with regards to paying for only what they consume...we will soon be launching a motor product that holds significant relevance in the current context as well as for the future.” The company has received approval for a product under the Sandbox initiative, where customers can pay depending on the usage of their vehicles. During April-end, Bharti AXA General Insurance also announced the launch of ‘usage-based motor insurance’ policies for private car owners, under the Sandbox project. Known as ‘Pay As You Drive’, it allows customers to pay premium depending on the number of kilometres they drive their car. In the US, many insurers have already started extending grace period by allowing customers to skip premium payments for a limited duration without charging any penalty. For instance, as per information available on US-based insurer Allstate’s website: “Shelter-in-place orders mean fewer people on the roads and fewer accidents. Given this decline, personal auto insurance customers will receive 15% back, based on their monthly premiums in April and May”. IRDAI had not responded to an email sent on the issue till the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/customers-seek-extension-of-motor-cover-duration-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75586432.cms||Swati Rathor
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Private school teachers stare at salary woes in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The ongoing lockdown has affected private teachers and managements of small schools in the city. Majority of schools in city are not in a position to pay full salaries to their teachers and staff as per the directions given by the school education department. All schools and colleges in the city were closed as soon as the government announced lockdown in March. Many students have failed to pay final instalment of fees. M Srinivas, governing council member of Vijayawada Private Schools and Tutorials Association, said: ”We have managed to pay March and April salaries though we have suffered financially. We are dependent on first term fee after the reopening but it is getting delayed with the lockdown. We cannot pay salaries for the coming months if the lockdown is extended,” he said. A few private schools cited salaries received by state government teachers and requested the government to give them a similar exemption. “Uncertainty is prevailing over the reopening of schools. We have paid full salaries to teachers till date but have done it with difficulty. News on the commencement of new academic year from August is worrying us. Government should help us survive,” said K Rama Rao who runs a tutorial institute in the city. Private teachers’ association is requesting the state government to provide interest-free financial assistance to private schools to pay their salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pvt-school-teachers-stare-at-salary-woes/articleshow/75585100.cms||Venu Lanka
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man arrested for sharing child porn||COIMBATORE: The Karumathampatti police arrested a 29-year-old man from Kaaduvettipalayam on the city outskirts on Wednesday for sharing child porn videos on social media platforms. The accused was identified as C Ranganathan. He works for a private company, police sources said. “He had been watching child porn videos for almost a year. He had also created a fake Facebook ID to upload the videos and to share them with other people. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children had traced his activities on social media and monitored him. We arrested him from his residence based on their tip-off,” a police officer said. A first information report under sections of 67 A, 67 B IT Act r/w 15(1) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been filed. Ranganathan was produced before the judicial magistrate and was lodged in prison till May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-sharing-child-porn/articleshow/75586379.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Umbrellas for social distancing in queues at Visakhapatnam’s liquor shops||VISAKHAPATNAM: The excise department and police have implemented ‘umbrella theory’ mooted by doctor and recipient of Padma Shri, Kutikuppala Surya Rao, to maintain social distancing while queuing up to buy liquor. The police and excise officials struggled to manage the crowd at liquor outlets on Monday and Tuesday. The liquor outlets were reopened on Monday after six weeks. Long queues were seen at liquor outlets and many did not follow social distancing and wear face masks. Vizag city police chief R K Meena asked people to carry umbrella to maintain social distancing and get protection from scorching heat. On Wednesday, majority of the tipplers who were lining up outside liquor stores in Vizag city were seen carrying umbrellas. “Though there were long queues, people holding umbrellas ensured a safe distance among them,” said deputy excise commissioner, Vizag, T Srinivasa Rao. A senior officer with prohibition and excise department said that the government will make it mandatory for customers wait in queues with umbrellas. Liquor will not be sold to those who come without umbrellas, he added. Apart from liquor buyers, the public who venture outside to purchase groceries and other essential items have also been advised to carry umbrellas to maintain social distancing, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/umbrellas-for-social-distancing-in-queues-at-citys-liquor-shops/articleshow/75585098.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Emergency cab service gets good response in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The emergency services launched by Ola in the city on April 9 in collaboration with the state government has elicited enthusiastic response from Vizagites. Sources in Ola told TOI that around 30 cars have been deployed and it has got over 3,000 requests since its launch. Speaking on the Ola emergency services, Anand Subramanian, spokesperson and head of communications, said, “We are thankful to the government of Andhra Pradesh for giving us an opportunity to serve the people in these tough times. With close to 100 hospitals in the city mapped, ‘Ola Emergency’ is a convenient and safe transport to thousands of citizens in Vizag for medical trips that do not require an ambulance. This includes scheduled medical appointments such as dialysis, chemotherapy, pregnancy related checkups, neonatal vaccinations or immediate medical attention for injuries amongst other non-Covid-19 related issues.” Since the lockdown was imposed, transport was suspended to check human movement. But it had one fallout, those without private cars had trouble accessing non-Covid-19 emergency service. A case in point is Anu Prema, mother to an eight-year-old son who recently injured his left hand while playing. “I had to immediately take my son to the hospital as his injury was severe. Since I do not have a personal car and the public transport was restricted, things would have been stressful if there were no emergency services like the one Ola is providing,” said Prema. Another beneficiary A Srinivas said, “With Covid-19 situation and the lockdown across the country, my family was worried as my wife is pregnant and she needed regular check-ups. We were finding it difficult to commute to the hospital until we started to use Ola emergency services.” All Ola emergency service drivers have been provided with masks and hand sanitisers. Shanmukh, 45, one of the Ola drivers on duty told TOI, “I have been operating a cab in Ola emergency since it was launched in Vizag. I work for about eight hours and complete eight to ten rides every day, which are either from hospital to home or back. I have been getting passengers who visit hospitals for regular check-ups, dialysis and immediate medical needs such as injuries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/emergency-cab-service-gets-good-response/articleshow/75585083.cms||Reshma Jain
May 7, 2020||Chennai||771 new cases as Koyambedu leaves footprints across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu saw another big surge in Covid-19 infections on Wednesday with 771 people testing positive, 324 of them in Chennai and 188 in Ariyalur, with the Koyambedu cluster spreading across nearly two dozen districts. The state toll went up to 35 with two more deaths on Wednesday. In view of the continuing rise in infections in Chennai, a new testing protocol has also been approved. Cuddalore, which reported 95 fresh cases, now has the most infections after Chennai, 324 cases. Ariyalur is third with 222 cases. At least seven districts — Cuddalore, Dindigul, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri and Tenkasi — may soon be reclassified as red zones either because they have more than 50 cases or have a doubling time of less than four days or because they are reporting fresh cases, officials said. Earlier in the day, Greater Chennai Corporation officials said that they had sought permission from the state health department to revise the testing strategy. “We submitted it to the health department and it has been approved,” said GCC joint commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy. Under the new protocol, all family contacts of patients who tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers , will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease, or asthma they will be taken for tests. Besides this, any one admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. “All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. This is to ensure safe delivery and to protect frontline workers in the hospital,” he said. The aim, he said, was not to reduce the number of people being tested but to ensure they are searching at the right place at the right time. “We don’t have to test all vendors. They are anyway asymptomatic and are kept in isolation at the hospitals,” he said. All vendors of the Koyambedu complex residing in Chennai are now being quarantined for at least 14 days in government quarantine facilities such as schools and hostels or at their homes and may not be picked for testing. “We will continue to test at least 3,600 people every day,” he said. Senior officials maintained that the large increase was due to focussed testing of “probable” cases from the Koyambedu cluster. At the Thiruvanmiyur market in Chennai, 19 vendors tested positive and almost all cases on Wednesday in several districts were returnees Koyambedu. On Wednesday, the positivity rate in the state rose to 5% after 13,281 people were tested. Chennai, which had tested more than 3,500 people, had 10% positive cases. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, meanwhile, said the state has a stock of more than 1.25lakh RT-PCR testing kits and is expecting another one lakh to arrive by Saturday. “We have placed orders for a few more lakh kits from Korea,” corporation managing director P Umanath said. The two deaths were in Chennai -- a 68-year- old man admitted to Stanley Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday died at 6.15pm on Wednesday. Forty-five minutes later, doctors at Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital declared a 59-year-old man admitted on Sunday dead. On Wednesday, eight policemen attached to the DGP’s office, two doctors from the Madras Medical College and at least six firemen were among frontline personnel who tested positive. Chennai’s neighbours Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded 45 fresh cases (total 87) and 34 cases (129) respectively. At the end of the day, 31 people were discharged taking the total number of people recovered to 1,516 across TN. And, 3,275 people with the viral infection were still being treated at various hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/771-new-cases-as-koyambedu-leaves-footprints-across-state/articleshow/75587282.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: Utter chaos after AMC closes stores||ahmedabad: A mad scramble for groceries and vegetables erupted minutes after in-charge Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) commissioner Mukesh Kumar issued a notification ordering a shutdown of all stores except those selling milk and medicines from Thursday, till 6am on May 15. Crowds swelled outside vegetable and grocery stores in various parts of the city, caring two hoots about social distancing. Panic buyers were seen in the serpentine queues outside stores on Wednesday evening to buy vegetables, fruits and groceries and whatever else they could catch hold of. As people rushed out of their homes to get essentials, heavy traffic snarls were also seen in several parts of the city. “Do we have a choice? I have a family of four to sustain for eight days! A decision comes in around 5pm to shut grocery stores and vegetable vendors from the next day. It’s the start of the month and we don’t have enough supplies to last us through this time,” said Bhargav Sharma, a professional, who rushed out to stock up groceries. Most people hoarded potatoes and onions, which went off shelves within minutes, according to traders. A number of stores, especially those selling vegetables ran out of supplies and were forced to ask customers to return empty handed. “I waited in queue for 25 minutes and by the time I got into the store, there were some mangoes and potatoes. All the vegetables were out of stock. The queues were pretty much the same across all the stores and vendors in the locality,” said Nishtha Shah, a Vejalpur resident. As social distancing went for a toss amid swelling crowds outside stores in different parts of the city including Stadium Road, Prernatirth Derasar Road, Anandnagar Road and Azad Society, among others, police personnel had to intervene to get people in order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/utter-chaos-after-amc-closes-stores/articleshow/75586481.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||6L teachers may not get paid this month, say school bodies||Nagpur: School owners associations have been continuously warning of a financial crisis. They now say six lakh teachers in Maharashtra may not get salaries this month. Independent English Schools Association (IESA), a pan-Maharashtra group and Nagpur-based Unaided Schools Welfare Association (USWA) have issued separate statements highlighting their plight due to non-payment of pending fees. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, said the monthly cash requirement for salaries was close to Rs 120 crore. “We are looking at salaries of six lakh teachers, 80,000 drivers plus one lakh non-teaching staff. On average, 40% fee is still pending with parents as many of them pay once final exams begin. This year we could not conduct final exams due to lockdown,” said Dayma. He added that if the moratorium was not lifted immediately then ‘extreme measures’ will have to be taken. “Job cuts will be a reality across the state because there is no way we can sustain the financial burden. Already many schools have not received their RTE 25% quota reimbursements which is adding to our woes. I hope education minister Varsha Gaikwad will solve the problem,” said Dayma. USWA’s chairperson Neeru Kapai too issued a statement saying fee moratorium was the main reason for their financial plight. “Many schools are having huge number of defaulters even after having completed the full academic year before the pandemic outbreak. Schools are struggling to pay summer salaries, maintaining facilities and keep the system functioning,” said the statement. The association also urged the government to release standard operating procedures for schools to follow once everything reopens. USWA said they all need to know what is the exit (lockdown) strategy and what SOP would be in place if a student is tested positive. USWA expressed surprise parents were petitioning for abolishment of fee. “When countries like UK and Germany make it compulsory for the students to pay fees for the term they have been taught, here the parents are petitioning the government to abolish fees. When the parents asked for a moratorium to pay the fees, the administration and department granted it. Many who have not paid a paisa till date for the whole year are happy that the pandemic appeared at the end of the academic session when everything for the year is over,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6l-teachers-may-not-get-paid-this-month-say-school-bodies/articleshow/75587295.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Suspicion of coronavirus mars man’s last goodbye to wife||Vijayawada: For 36-year-old Sheikh Abubakar, who is a postman, the next three days are of prime importance as they would determine whether he will get a chance to pay his last respects to his wife Syedabi (33). Syedabi, who suffered from Pemphigus Vulgaris, a rare skin disease, for the past two years, died on Tuesday midnight after complaining of breathlessness at their residence near Benz Circle. Later on Wednesday morning, medical staff reached their residence and shifted her body to Vijayawada GGH mortuary to verify if she had coronavirus.  Abubakar waited at the mortuary from 9 am till noon, only to learn that the test results would arrive after three days and till then the body would be in the hospital’s possession. A harried Abubakar told TOI, “If the test result is postive, they said we won’t get the body and if it is negative, we would receive it and only then would we be allowed to conduct her last rites.” Syedabi was initially responding to treatment at a private hospital. However, due to the lockdown and financial constraints, they had to discharge her and continue treatment at home. “After the lockdown, the supply of medicines stopped and we couldn’t continue the full course. Her condition deteriorated and later she passed away. She had no contact with the outside world for several months I do not know how she can have coronavirus,” he said. As per central and state guidelines on disposal of bodies, if Syedabi were to test positive, the dead body should be sterilised and sealed before disposal as per the protocol. While only a few relatives are allowed to pay their last respects, the final rites have to be conducted by the burial ground staff. Moreover, all primary contacts of Syedabi will be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/suspicion-of-coronavirus-mars-mans-last-goodbye-to-wife/articleshow/75585121.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Farmers dump fruits, veggies on road, cops say protest ‘instigated’||TIRUPATI: A group of agitated farmers and vegetable vendors dumped vegetables and fruits on the road at Badvel in Kadapa district, alleging that police denied them permission to sell their produce. However, police dismissed the incident as “politically instigated”. In the video which went viral, angry farmers and vegetable vendors were seen dumping their produce on the road in Badvel town. While blaming the police for denying them necessary permission to sell their produce, they also questioned the rationale behind the state government’s move to open liquor stores throughout the day, while continuing undue restrictions on the sale of essential commodities, vegetables and fruits. Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan, who ordered an inquiry into the episode on Wednesday, told TOI that the probe found that some local opposition party leaders had instigated the farmers. “They instigated the farmers to dump their produce on the road. There is not an iota of truth behind the allegations that police denied them permission to sell their produce,” he said. He added that Badvel town has been declared a containment zone and all essential commodities are being door-delivered to people. “In coordination with the local administration, we helped set up a vegetable market on the outskirts of Badvel town to enable farmers to sell their produce. In case of any problems, farmers can call the police control room or contact me directly on 9440796900,” Anburajan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-dump-fruits-veggies-on-road-cops-say-protest-instigated/articleshow/75585145.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Many liquor shops run out of stock due to unprecedented demand in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: With demand for liquor unprecedented many wine shops have run out of stocks in mere two days. On Wednesday, the third day of the resumption of liquor sales, the government-run wine shops put up no stock boards in the morning hours. The shops in Guntur and Krishna districts opened late as people waited in queues with stocks running out. Almost all wine shops at Tenali started sale late as the stocks from depots did not arrive on time. With the production of liquor stalled in distilleries there have been some supply chain issues, said the excise department officials. Though the shops were having stocks prior to the lockdown, the stocks sold out on the first day itself with huge demand from consumers. Although Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (APBCL) has made arrangements to maintain adequate stocks, on Wednesday supply shortages were reported at many places. The excise officials said consumers were resorting to hoarding of bottles. A senior excise official said people were queuing up again after purchasing the allowed limit of three bottles. This has led to unprecedented demand for liquor and many shops have run out of stocks. As there have been logistical issues with availability of workers and vehicles, delivery of stocks to the shops was delayed at some places on Wednesday, said the official. The shops in Guntur and Krishna districts opened late as people waited in queues with stocks running out. Almost all wine shops at Tenali started sale late as well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/many-liquor-shops-run-out-of-stock-due-to-unprecedented-demand/articleshow/75585161.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Cheer to govt: Rs 75cr stock sold||Hyderabad: While the ‘first day first show’ of liquor sales during the lockdown passed off peacefully on Wednesday, excise officials said the volume of the sales was about Rs 75 crore on Wednesday. The sale volume was more than in a single day when lockdown was not in place. Before the lockdown, the daily average sale in the state was about Rs 45 crore-Rs 50 crore. Sources said the state government is likely to net an additional Rs 320 crore following an increase in the liquor prices. The excise department garnered Rs 980 crore in March till 16th of that month. On March 22, all the liquor shops in the state had Rs 85 crore worth stocks available with them. Some shop owners managed to palm off some of the stocks available with them despite the lockdown in force, sources said. Though the government had increased liquor rates up to 16%, the shop owners were asked to pay back the extra charge taken from the consumers on the old stock. Though a verification of the new excise policy was done on Tuesday, sources said the government wants to check the actual income that would accrue from the sale of old stocks. While checking the records, officials found discrepancies in the quantity of alcohol . Due to this, many shop owners who were suspected to have sold liquor during lockdown, will now have to shell out extra tax, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cheer-to-govt-rs-75cr-stock-sold/articleshow/75587318.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Sastra wants govt to bring back stranded students||Trichy: Sastra Deemed University, Thanjavur has sought help from the Union government to bring back 79 students who are stranded in various countries. The students are on short-term visas to countries like the US, UK, Denmark, Spain, Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Australia, Malaysia, Canada and Japan, as part of their research internship programme. In a letter to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, vice-chancellor, S Vaidhyasubramaniam requested that steps be taken for the safe return of the students by ensuring flight availability. All their visas are about to expire, and their academic sessions are coming to a close. Most of them are placed or having plans to pursue higher education, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-wants-govt-to-bring-back-stranded-students/articleshow/75587296.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Halal certification is for our products sent to Gulf, not for meat export as some MNCs are alleging: Patanjali||Haridwar: Patanjali Yogpeeth general secretary Acharya Balkrishna said on Tuesday that their company Patanjali Ayurved has taken ‘halal’ certificate for their Ayurvedic medicines which are much in demand in the Arab countries. He added that such a certification is mandatory throughout the world for any product a country wants to sell in these countries. He lashed out at what he termed were “conspiracies and rumours floated by multinational companies that the ‘halal’ certificate obtained by Patanjali is intended to export meat.” “The rumours by the MNCs are intended to adversely affect the sale of Patanjali products which are registering a rise in popularity during the lockdown in India while MNC products’ sale has taken a nosedive. In fact, they are fighting for their survival,” Balkrishna alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/halal-certification-is-for-our-products-sent-to-gulf-not-for-meat-export-as-some-mncs-are-alleging-patanjali/articleshow/75583581.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Vendor claims cops hit him, son||VADODARA: A vegetable vendor has accused the police of hitting him and his son when they were selling veggies on Karodiya Road on Tuesday morning. Nagendra Giri said that three to four cops approached him and asked him not to sell veggies at that spot. “I have a tempo, but there was no work for the past 40 days. So, I began selling vegetables and while me and my son were selling vegetables on Karodiya road on Wednesday, four cops approached us in civil dress and threatened to seize the tempo. They also argued with me and hit me in my eye,” Giri claimed, adding that they also thrashed his 16-year-old son. Giri, who has already given an application to the police regarding the incident, claimed that he got scared and fled from the spot with his tempo. “I had permission from Karodiya village panchayat to sell the veggies. I don’t know why they beat me without asking for any explanation. In such crisis, can’t we earn and feed our family without any fear,” he added. When asked about the incident, Jawaharnagar in-charge police inspector, Bhavesh Shingrakhiya claimed that no vegetable vendor was beaten up. “We have asked all the vendors in the area to sell veggies on an open ground there. But this vendor didn’t listen to us despite being told a few times. When the cops were asking him to move from there, the weighing scale hit his son’s hands. He wasn’t beaten by the cops,” Shingrakhiya said. “His claims of being beaten and the injury marks are not true. Even the owner of the house that Giri stays was caught last year for making spurious liquor. So, we guess that all these claims of cops thrashing him are motivated,” Shingrakhiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vendor-claims-cops-hit-him-son/articleshow/75583975.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: 188 test positive in Ariyalur in a single day||TRICHY: In the biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 patients in districts outside Chennai, 188 tested positive for the disease in Ariyalur on Wednesday catapulting the district’s tally from 34 to 222. Ariyalur district collector D Rathna told TOI that 152 of the new cases were Koyambedu returnees while another 10 were their family contacts and 22, secondary contacts. Four patients who returned from other states also tested positive. The patients included women including expectant mothers, children and a 37-year-old ENT surgeon from government medical college hospital in Ariyalur. The patients belonged to Sendurai, Ponparappi, Unjini, Udaiyarpalayam, Thirumanur, Poyyur, Meensurutti and surrounding areas. Asymptomatic patients have been kept at the quarantine facility at Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) in Ariyalur. Symptomatic and sick patients will be shifted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital in Trichy on Thursday. Ariyalur was one of the districts from where several poverty-stricken people had moved to Koyambedu vegetable market to earn a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ariyalur-district-records-188-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75587281.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Haryana woos MNCs to revive economy||CHANDIGARH: In a bid to convert challenges of economic growth in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in Haryana into an oppurtunity, the representative of Haryana government on Wednesday started the three-day session with the representatives of companies having industrial and official set up in China. Headed by principal secretary to CM Rajesh Khullar, also HSIIDC chairman, and other officials of industries department, the state team had one-toone interactions with the MNC representatives at the webinar and sought their suggestions to make the state an industry hub and an alternative to China. The webinar, was attended by the likes of large MNCs like Dell, Yazaki India, Danisco India Pvt. Ltd., Johnson Matthey India, Jyoti Apparels, Hind Terminals UAE, Ascendas First Space, Reliance and Coca-Cola India gathered an overwhelming response from the attendees. During the webinar, a detailed discussion was held on the special policies of the government that would make Haryana a viable destination for immediate shifting of manufacturing units. Various other suggestions made by the industrialists included inclusion of IT electronic products in the list of essential items, inclusion of medical electronics components in IT&ESDM policy of Government of India to extend incentives to industry on manufacturing of these items and promoting of a trucker park in the state.  Understanding the pain area of industry on cost involved in purchase of land, Rajesh Khullar, assured that the state is planning to come up with a path-breaking policy of land on lease which would entail investors to operate on land taken on lease and at a later point of time, convert it to a free-hold asset, subject to certain terms and conditions.  This initiative to cut down the cost of doing business in Haryana has received an overwhelming response from the investors. Two more webinars are planned with many more major conglomerates on Thursday and Friday, thereby echoing the targeted and focused approach of the state to shine in these difficult times and retain its position as the industrial powerhouse of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-19-haryana-attempts-to-convert-challenge-into-oppurtunity-gives-global-call-to-make-state-a-destination/articleshow/75588857.cms||Manvir Saini
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Services of 426 doctors who did not join or complete probation terminated by U’khand govt||Dehradun: The services of 426 doctors, who had been selected for government service between 2010 and 2015, and did not join their posting or complete the probation period, have been terminated by the Uttarakhand government with immediate effect. Providing details at a media briefing on Wednesday, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “Of the total of 426 doctors, 385 did not join their duty, whereas remaining 41 did not complete the probation period. Their services have been terminated and we will soon initiate fresh recruitment on these posts.” In addition to 426 posts, the state has also requested the public service commission for recruitment of 467 more doctors as soon as possible, Singh said. Earlier, the state cabinet had declared the post of 180 doctors as ‘dead cadre’. The cabinet has now revived these posts and the commission would be asked to fill up these vacancies as well, the chief secretary said. To recall, the health department had earlier issued a public notice asking for the errant doctors to join duty, or face consequences. Chief secretary Singh further said in the briefing that till now, donations of almost Rs 60 crore have been received in the CM Relief Fund and SDRF (State Disaster Relief Fund). “Out of the amount received, Rs 53 crore has been spent in providing food and other relief to the needy. While Rs 32 crore has been used to provide food packets and ration to labourers. Rs 10 crore has been spent on government hospitals and Rs 10 crore in medical colleges. The remaining amount too, will be used in the efforts to fight coronavirus,” the CS added. Meanwhile, state assembly speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal on Wednesday mooted the idea for lawmakers to give 30% of their annual salary and perks for the fight against Covid-19. He, however,added that this was a voluntary suggestion and it would be upto the respective MLA if they want to implement it or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/services-of-426-doctors-who-did-not-join-or-complete-probation-terminated-by-ukhand-govt/articleshow/75585185.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Refused PUBG nod, 15-year-old ends life||RAJKOT: Mystery shrouds the death of a Class X boy who had allegedly committed suicide at his house in Wadhwan town of Surendranagar district on May 2. Yashpal Limbad (15) was found hanging with rope tied to iron grills of a ladder on the terrace of his house in Kharwa ni Pol locality of the town. Preliminary investigation revealed that Limbad, who studied in a CBSE school in Kudasan adjoining state capital Gandhinagar, was addicted to PUBG game on his mobile phone. However, when cops screened through his cellphone, they found that he had last played PUBG on April 30. “So far, our investigation has revealed that Limbad’s parents were not allowing him to play PUBG since April 30. This had left him very frustrated and could have driven him to take the extreme step,” said Shaktisinh Vaghela, investigating officer, Wadhwan police station. However, at the time of his suicide, Limbad was active on a group chat with his school friends on the mobile phone. “He was interacting with his classmates on a WhatsApp group. The exact reason for the suicide will be ascertained once the statements of Limbad’s classmates are recorded,” said Vaghela. Talking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police AB Valand said, “We have screened all messages on Limbad’s social media too, but nothing objectionable was found. He last played PUBG two days before committing suicide, so it’s difficult to say if the game was the reason for his depression. But for now, this is one of the reason as stated by the family members.” “We are yet to question them in detail as they are in a deep shock. Only further investigation and questioning of his social media friends will reveal the exact reason behind the suicide,” added Valand. Limbad’s father is registered contractor with state-run power distribution company Pashchim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL) and also owns agriculture land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mystery-shrouds-suicide-of-class-x-cbse-student/articleshow/75585197.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government issues notices to acquire J Jayalalithaa’s house, says no legal heir yet||CHENNAI: Sixteen months after holding a public hearing over acquiring former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s house at Poes Garden for converting it into a memorial, the state government on Wednesday issued public notices to acquire ‘Veda Nilayam’. The two notices issued separately by Chennai district collector and revenue divisional officer of Chennai South under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, said the project does not involve any displacement of families or relocation, and hence no area was identified as ‘resettlement area for the purpose of rehabilitation and resettlement of affected families’. The notices also said the legal heir of the property was yet to be ascertained. When contacted by TOI, Jayalaithaa’s niece Deepa Jayakumar, who had filed a case in the Madras high court staking claim over her aunt’s assets, said the matter was subjudice and she does not want to say anything more. According to sources, the notices have been gazette-notified. “The acquisition process involves two more notifications before the property could be handed over to the state government. It will take time,” a revenue official said. The government has already allocated Rs 20 crore for converting ‘Veda Nilayam’ into a memorial after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami made an announcement about the plan in August 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-issues-notices-to-acquire-jayas-house-says-no-legal-heir-yet/articleshow/75587349.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Home run: 1,000 migrants finally leave Delhi for MP||NEW DELHI: Yogesh Kumar was moist-eyed when he caught a glimpse of the Shramik special train in the distance. It offered the 51-year-old migrant worker his first real hope in almost two months of reaching home in Gwalior. Eager to board the train on Thursday, he was impatient, therefore, when a Delhi Police team stopped his bus on Bhavbhuti Marg to inspect the papers. Once it was finally allowed into New Delhi Railway Station’s Ajmeri Gate parking, Kumar didn’t have to wait long before the train departed the station at 8pm. Kumar, a construction worker, was among the 1,050 migrant workers sent home to Madhya Pradesh on the special train. The train ride did not cost Kumar a single paisa. The journey expenses are being borne by the Centre and Madhya Pradesh in the ratio of 85:15. “The state government is also paying for the expenses involved in the bus transport,” a railway official said. Till Thursday, Indian Railways had run 171 Shramik specials to transport over one lakh migrant workers home, but this was the first one from Delhi. Another will leave for Bihar on Friday afternoon, according to an official. More can be arranged to take the beleaguered daily-wage earners to their villages once the state governments work out the modalities. “After Delhi government and the destination state reach an agreement, we receive a list of passengers for a train. We also require permission from the Union home ministry to run the special service,” a railway official said. “We understand Delhi government is currently in talks with more states.” Northern Railway, jointly with the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police, had taken all precautions to see there was proper social distancing on the train. “We made marks on the ground where each individual stood while waiting to board,” an RPF officer said. “The passengers were allowed entry one by one and this is why the buses were brought to the station early enough for these measures to be implemented.” The opportunity to go home was a godsend for Kumar, who, bereft of earnings and with no saving left a week after the lockdown, moved from one shelter for migrant workers to another. He even slept on the streets on several days. Meals were a problem, and even when he did get free food offered by government and welfare agencies, he said the quantity was not enough. “At the government school shelter I was staying in last week, I learnt about the special train,” an excited Kumar told TOI before departing. “When labourers from other states wanted to apply, they were told that this particular train was destined for Madhya Pradesh. I immediately submitted my name and haven’t slept properly since.” Sudheer, 25, was also among the lucky passengers. He survived this past month on irregular menial tasks, while depending on free government food. “I have no money left and I can’t keep hoping I will get free meals,” he said. Sunaina Kumari, sitting next to him, was also elated to be returning home. “Many people are stuck in Delhi. All they want is to go back. I am glad the government provided us this train,” Kumari said. Hazari Lal Patel, resident of Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh, unfortunately could not make it. He showed TOI his ticket on his phone. “I had registered but did not board the bus that brought others to the station. I walked here and they told me that since I was not on the bus, I was no longer eligible to leave,” said a flustered Patel. The desire to go home resulted in a mad scramble at the entry points to New Delhi Railway Station, with many hopefuls claiming, like Patel did, that they were denied journey rights despite having tickets. Rickshaw pullers and labourers living in the vicinity of the railway station, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, too got caught in the excitement of the special departure. “When will our state governments run these trains for us? When can we go home?” Chunni Lal asked a policeman as he watched another bus entering the railway station, the despair all too evident in his eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-run-1k-migrants-finally-leave-for-mp/articleshow/75611186.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Not just money, age proof, too, must for buying booze in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tipplers in Tamil Nadu will have to carry age-proof IDs when they go to buy booze on Thursday. This isn’t so much to keep away the underaged as to control crowds. Liquor outlets across the state, except those in Chennai police limits and those in border areas of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, are opening after 45 days and the government has fixed different times for different age groups to shop. Customers above 50 years of age can buy booze between 10am and 1pm. Those in the 40-50 age group can shop between 1pm and 3pm and the 18-39 age group from 3pm to 5pm. Tokens will be issued to each customer after checking their ID cards. Customers have to give these tokens at the cash counter before they buy liquor. As per the guidelines issued by Tasmac (the state-run agency that has sole rights to selling liquor in TN) managing director R Kirloshkumar, people standing in queues must stay six feet apart, wear masks and clean their hands with sanitizers, which will be provided to them. “If anyone shows address proof outside the jurisdiction, he will be arrested,” north zone IG P Nagarajan said. The decision comes a day after Mumbai closed liquor outlets again after crowds became uncontrollable on Tuesday. Visuals of milling crowds at almost all outlets in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, too, seem to have prompted the TN police to tighten security. Areas around liquor shop have been barricaded. While two policemen, two home guard personnel and a volunteer will be deployed near the cash counter of each outlet, four policemen, four home guards and four volunteers will regulate the queue. A patrol vehicle will scan through the streets and roads abutting the shops, while a team headed by an inspector or SI will monitor the operation. Two to four strike force teams have been assigned for each cluster of shops. DGP J K Tripathy, in a statement, advised all police personnel to coordinate with their counterparts in the prohibition enforcement wing and excise, revenue and Tasmac officials in their respective areas. Of the 5,300 liquor shops across TN, 2,100 have bars attached to them. At least 3,800 shops are expected to start functioning from Thursday. All shops located in coronavirus containment zones will remain closed. The average daily sales of liquor in TN is worth about Rs 90 crore. Earlier in the day, the Madras high court gave its nod to reopen the shops, and opposition parties, including the DMK, gave a call to people to stand in front of their homes with black shirts to protest the state’s decision to reopen them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-just-money-age-proof-too-must-for-buying-booze-in-tn/articleshow/75587321.cms||Selvaraj A
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Murrum excavation: HC stays Rs244 cr fine against Afcons||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday stayed Seloo Tehsildar’s order of directing infrastructure major Afcons to pay Rs244 crore fine for illegal excavation of murrum on a stretch of the Nagpur-Mumbai Samruddhi Mahamarg. The single-judge bench of justice Anil Kilor also issued notices to Maharashtra government, Wardha collector, and sub-contractor Ashish Daftari of MP Constructions, besides Tehsildar. While challenging Tehsildar’s order of February 20, the petitioner questioned the process, propriety and legality of the entire proceedings, allegedly initiated on the behest of a private firm M/s Cozy Properties. Although the respondents strongly opposed any interim relief to Afcons and prayed for depositing 50% of fine amount by the firm before hearing, the HC rejected their contentions, stating Tehsildar prima facie seems to have lacked powers to issue such fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/murrum-excavation-hc-stays-rs244-cr-fine-against-afcons/articleshow/75587346.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Aggrieved man stabs his father-in-law to death||RAJKOT: A man stabbed his father-in-law to death in Sinagar village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Saleem Khalifa, had stabbed his father-in-law Jafar Khalifa (55). Apart from Saleem also booked in the crime were Saleem’s father Ismaeel Khalifa, Saleem’s brother Akbar Khalifa and his unidentified aide. “Saleem’s wife Rehana had walked out on him and had gone to live with her father, Jafar. She had also filed a maintenance case seeking alimony from Saleem. Saleem thought that Jafar had instigated Rehana against him. On the fateful night, Saleem called up Jafar, throwing him a challenge to pick up a fight with him. Saleem along with the co-accused arrived at Jafar’s house and allegedly attacked him,” said A J Solanki, inspector with Anjar police station. Jafar was stabbed thrice. He was rushed to Anjar Civil Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The accused had gone to the crime spot on a bike and an SUV. After committing the crime, the accused had abandoned the bike and had fled in the SUV. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aggrieved-man-stabs-his-father-in-law-to-death/articleshow/75585217.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to pay entire rail, bus fares of stranded people||Dehradun: Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Wednesday said that the state government will pay the entire fare of people returning to Uttarakhand in trains and buses. “We will foot the entire cost for bringing back stranded people to the state. Apart from trains, we are also sending our state buses or requesting other states to send our people back in their buses," Singh said at a media briefing. Till date, over 15,000 people have been shifted within the state or brought to Uttarakhand from other states, the chief secretary said, adding that 8,146 stranded people have so far been moved within the state and 7,363 people have been brought to Uttarakhand from other states like Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. As many as 1.64 lakh people, who are stranded in other states, have registered themselves on the weblink developed by Uttarakhand government, the senior official said. “On Thursday, too, the Uttarakhand government would be sending a fleet of buses to bring back people from Haryana. Around 1500 people stuck in Haryana have been allowed permission to travel on their private vehicles. Almost 400 persons from both Udaipur and Jammu are being brought to the state. We have also written to the governments of Gujarat and Maharashtra to request the rail ministry for special trains to transport people from our state stranded there,” the CS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-pay-entire-rail-bus-fares-of-stranded-people/articleshow/75583640.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt mulling Covid-19 cess on liquor||Dehradun: Reeling under heavy financial losses in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Uttarakhand government is now planning to introduce a Covid-19 cess on liquor on the lines of several other states. The Excise department has started its preparations and a decision is likely in the Cabinet meeting to be held on Thursday evening. The revenue target for the ongoing fiscal was increased from Rs 3,100 crore to Rs 3,600 crore in Uttarakhand. However, in wake of Covid-19, the revenue realisation has been not as per the expectations of the authorities. Taking a leaf out of the book of Delhi, which recently implemented a special coronavirus fee on liquor, the authorities of Uttarakhand are planning a move on similar line. Albeit, the cess is unlikely to be as heavy as Delhi which brought a 70% special coronavirus fee. Principal secretary Anand Bardhan told TOI, “The preparations in this direction have started and a decision would be taken by the authorities concerned.” The senior IAS officer further added that the excise teams were working out the modalities before bringing it before the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-mulling-covid-19-cess-on-liquor/articleshow/75585215.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Civic body designs special Covid-19 ambulance||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has designed a special Covid-19 ambulance meant to carry coronavirus positive patients or their high risk contacts. The NMC has modified their 10 existing ambulances into special Covid-19 ambulances in order to protect the driver and doctor from getting infected by maintaining social distancing in the vehicle. These ambulances have been give to each of the six divisions of the city. "We have modified our traditional ambulances into special Covid-19 ambulances. The aim is to keep the driver and doctor of the ambulance safe from all kinds of infection," a civic official said. "Cases of Covid-19 are increasing in the city and we have to isolate the high risk contacts of each positive patient. Hence, there is a need to take precaution and maintain social distancing. Due to this we have modified the ambulances in such a way that driver and doctor will be protected," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-designs-special-covid-19-ambulance/articleshow/75585212.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Tasmac plans to apply rationing system in Trichy||Trichy: As Tasmac-run wine shops resume operation on Thursday after more than 40 days of shutdown, the officials concerned have planned to implement token and rationing system at the outlets. As soon as the government set reopening of wine shops on May 7, a section of people strongly objected to the plan, with some even suggesting ration method to limit the liquor consumption. Consideration the suggestions, Tasmac planned to restrict the liquor quantity to maximum four quarters and one full brandy, whisky and other liquor items to one person. This was planeed at the instructions of the officials. As for beer, two cans of beer will be allowed per person. An official source confirmed the plan. The officials believed that that one full quantity of liquor would be enough for a person a day. They were under the impression that people won’t come to buy the liquor for more than once a day as they have stay in long queue. With expectations over reopening of wine shops running high after the government on Monday decided to open the shutters of the liquor outlets from Thursday, the district administration, Tasmac and police made the preparatory work to deal with the likely rush on the first day of the sale. In Trichy, a total of 183 Tasmac-run wine shops have been functioning. Considering the location of 20 shops in the containment zones of Covid-19 patients, the officials put on hold the reopening of those shops. The rest of the shops will be opened between 10 am and 5 pm from tomorrow instead of its previous timing of 12 pm to 10 pm. As the crowd management could be a challenging task, the officials chalked out a plan. The queue barricades have been put up in front of the counters of all the wine shops in the district.The chalk marking for circles consumers will be drawn six foot apart in all shops. Besides, the tipplers will be stopped around 100 metres before the shop and will be issued tokens. Tasmac printed the tokens for this purpose. Trichy collector S Sivarasu also announced that the tokens will be issued from 10 am. The token numbers will be called out in public address system. Only customers with token will be allowed in the queue and they should have face masks too. In all the places, the police and the home guards will be deployed. In Trichy, the liquor was safely stocked up in five places including the go-downs in Thuvakudi, Kalaiarangam, Devar hall after the break-in at two shops in the city soon after the lockdown in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tasmac-plans-to-apply-rationing-system-in-trichy/articleshow/75587356.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||1200 students from Kota get rousing welcome in Darbhanga||DARBHANGA: About 1200 students preparing for medical and engineering entrance examinations, who reached Darbhanga junction from Kota in Rajasthan by a special train on Tuesday morning. The platform on which the train arrived was adorned with balloons and flowers were given to the students, which lifted their mood after the agony of being stranded in the Rajasthan town for last one- an-a half month following the implementation of nationwide lockdown. Darbhanga DM Thyagrajan SM, SSP Babu Ram, Town BJP MLA Sanjay Sarawgi and other senior officials were present on the station to receive the students. Those who were unmasked, were provided mask with Mithila paintings. After alighting from the train they walked on the platform maintaining social distancing. In the absence of coolies, Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel deployed on the station helped the students in carrying their luggage. The students were given a rousing welcome on their arrival. Food packets and water bottles were also given to each student after their thermal screening by a medical team. Registration of the students was also done, following which they boarded the buses for going to their home districts. Announcements were being made at the railway station, asking students to remain home quarantined for 14 days. A student from Madhubani district, Rahul, enrolled in a private coaching institute at Kota said, “Though the Rajsthan government provided help to the students during the lockdown period and he is happy to be back home.” Another special train from Trichur in Kerla reached Darbhanga at 4 pm, carrying 1,197 migrant labourers. They were also screened and their hands were stamped. Their luggages were sanitized and they were also given food packets and water bottles. They were sent to their home districts and block headquarters, where they will remain in quarantine centre for 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1200-students-from-kota-get-rousing-welcome-in-darbhanga/articleshow/75561413.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
May 7, 2020||Chennai||After journey to good health, a train to happiness||VELLORE: When the first train from Tamil Nadu after the Covid-19 lockdown chugged out of the Katpadi railway station in Vellore late on Wednesday night, carrying 1,130 patients and their caregivers, thousands from across the country who throng the medical town of Vellore saw the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel. K Vikash Mahto, 22, and his brother Sandeep Mahto, 29, a chronic heart patient from Ranchi in Jharkhand, reached Vellore on March 21 for a two-day treatment at Christian Medical College Hospital. They were to fly back home on March 23. But the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown stopped them. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-journey-to-good-health-a-train-to-happiness/articleshow/75587376.cms||Karal Marx
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: All stores shut for week; milk, medicines exempted||AHMEDABAD: It will be a complete lockdown from Thursday in the city for the next week. The sale of vegetables, water cans, and even basic household provisions, except milk and medicines, has been banned within the city municipal limits. On Wednesday afternoon, city police stations were ordered to ensure a complete ban on non-essential services and those restricted by the latest AMC Covid-19 notification. The estate department in every zone has been asked to ensure that offices in commercial complexes are closed. AMC officials in each zone have been asked to carry out Covid-19 tests on pharmacy store employees and milk vendors at booths that will remain open from Thursday. They have also been asked to identify more hospitals and hotels in their respective areas that can be turned into Covid-19 facilities. So far, GCS Hospital in Naroda, Kothia Hospital in Nikol, Susrusha Hospital in Navrangpura, Narayani Hospital in Rakhial, Parekh Hospital at Shyamal Crossroads, Bodyline Hospital in Paldi, and Jivraj Mehta Hospital in Vasna have been identified as ‘designated building containment units’. “Senior zonal officials have been asked to modify sampling techniques,” said a senior AMC official. “More samples are now being taken from non-slum or chawl areas and contacts of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients are being monitored for symptoms.” The official said that hitherto there had been an emphasis on ‘super spreaders’ who largely included roadside vegetable vendors. The official added that in two to four days, a strategy will be evolved to open up vending with health cards. Meanwhile, senior deputy municipal commissioner R K Mehta of the south zone has been put under quarantine since his driver has tested Covid-19 positive. In Ahmedabad district, Dholka nagarpalika has been instructed to begin the distribution of street vendor health cards with a seven-day validity. Health teams in the district will certify these vendors. The zilla panchayat also has begun the distribution of vegetable vendors’ cards in every village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complete-lockdown-for-the-city/articleshow/75586474.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Lasalgaon APMC stops auction after villager tests positive||Nashik: A day after a local resident tested positive for Covid-19, the Lasalgaon APMC on Wednesday suspended the auction of onions from the noon session until further notice. The auction was conducted in the morning session — between 9 am and 12 pm. Also, the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) could not procure onions owing to non-availability of workers. "We have decided to suspend onion auction at Lasalgaon APMC temporarily until further notice. The decision has been taken after a person from Lasalgaon was tested Covid-19 positive. We will review the situation after two days and decide whether to open the market," an APMC official said. It is for the second time in two months that the market has been shut down due to coronavirus. Last month too, the Lasalgaon APMC had suspended onion auction for few days after a person from the village near Lasalgaon was tested positive for Covid-19. It was only two days ago (on Monday) that the auction of loose onions was started at the APMC following demands from farmers and Nafed. Farmers were hopeful that Nafed’s entry for procuring onions will lead to rise in the average wholesale price of the produce. But, instead of rising, the average wholesale price has dropped by Rs 200 per quintal in the past three days. The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC was recorded at Rs 650 per quintal on Wednesday as against Rs 850 per quintal last week. "There has been rise in supply of onions in Lasalgaon APMC in the last three days after auction of loose onions began. Around 70,000 quintal of onions have been auctioned between Monday and Wednesday at Lasalgaon," an APMC official said. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon on Wednesday were recorded at Rs 400 and Rs 738, respectively. "We have urged the Centre to procure at least 1 lakh tonne of onions directly from farmers at a rate of Rs 1,500 per quintal through Nafed. Moreover, the Centre should acquire all the wedding halls and lawns in the city — lying idle due to Covid-19 outbreak — for storage of onions on rental basis," Bharat Dighole, state president of Maharashtra onion growers association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-apmc-stops-auction-after-villager-tests-positive/articleshow/75585232.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC begins pre-monsoon works, repairs 378 potholes||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has started repairing roads in the city as part of its pre-monsoon exercise from last week of April. NMC has claimed to have repaired 378 potholes across the city, especially in south Nagpur, till May 5. The public works department too has given nod to Abhi Engineering, a road construction firm, to concretize two incomplete cement roads. With the monsoon onset date for Nagpur this year being June 15, NMC has over a month-and-a-half to complete pre-monsoon works. It has completed repair and resurfacing of Jhanda Chowk road, (Mahal), Jaitala Road, the patch between NMC’s Isolation Hospital and Imambada police chowky, Uday Lawn to Wathoda Village road, Krida Chowk to Awari Chowk and Awari Chowk to Sakkardara Chowk stretches. It also carried out patch-up works from Manish Nagar railway crossing to Chinch Bhuvan, Hasanbagh Chowk to Shrikrishna Nagar Chowk. The official said the staff has been asked to follow social distancing and other guidelines issued in view of coronavirus outbreak while carrying out works in the city. “Workers have been asked to keep their faces covered and maintain social distancing during the work,” the official added. Residents demanded that the NMC should carry out patchwork in a scientific manner. As there is no vehicular movement due to lockdown these days, the civic body can easily carry out repair work. Patches should be applied in proper way maintaining the level of the road surface, residents added. Similarly, NMC’s public works department has also given nod to complete a small patch of cement road near State CID office. The official said the road from Awasthi Nagar Chowk to Police Talao was almost complete barring a 50mtr patch over a nullah. “As the road construction company has the requisite manpower, we asked them to complete the work,” he said. “We have also asked the firm to complete the incomplete work in front of NMC headquarters,” the official said. Like every year, the civic body has been tasked with completing pre-monsoon works by May 31. “Pre-monsoon works can’t stop. If stopped there will be a lot of issues like flooding, accidents and traffic disruptions,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-begins-pre-monsoon-works-repairs-378-potholes/articleshow/75587394.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Wait for those bound for Bihar, Jharkhand to end soon||New Delhi: As mandated by the government, officials on Thursday screened 1,050 stranded migrant labourers for flu-like symptoms before allowing them to board the first train bound for Madhya Pradesh from the national capital. The second train will be leaving for Muzaffarpur in Bihar carrying an equal number of passengers along with a team of officials and health and sanitation workers on Friday, sources said. Over the next 3-4 days, more trains are likely to leave for eastern UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Rajasthan. “Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to leave for their home states. We didn’t find any passenger having flu-like symptoms when they boarded the buses to reach New Delhi railway station. They will again be screened at their destination. They will then have to stay in quarantine for 14 days as a precautionary step,” said an official. The migrants were brought to the railway station from all 11 districts in around 75 buses. Sanitation and health workers had been deputed in each coach to ensure hygiene and social distancing. While the process to register migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students in distress desirous to go back to their hometowns was still on, officials said a tentative list had been drawn in consultation with the nodal officers of other states. Though around 12,000 people have registered themselves with the respective district magistrates or online through a link, sources said only those living in government-run shelters would initially be sent back. With Delhi government giving relaxations in the lockdown restrictions, a large number of migrant workers have decided to stay back as they are expecting factories, industries and construction activities to resume, said officials. Sources said about 16,000 people are currently staying in 246 night shelters run by Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and 260 temporary ones in schools, sports complexes and community centres operated by district administrations. Out of the 700-odd people who have expressed their desire to return to their native places, a large number of them are staying in temporary shelters. “We are in discussions with nodal officers of all states and the list of passengers is being worked out as per the protocol. Depending upon the number of passengers, the receiver state will requisition trains from the railways. In case the distance is motorable, the passengers will be sent by bus. We have a standard operating procedure for that,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wait-for-those-bound-for-bihar-jharkhand-to-end-soon/articleshow/75611229.cms||Atul Mathur
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Labour shortage throws a spanner in pre-monsoon road, desilting works||MUMBAI: The BMC’s critical pre-monsoon works are getting delayed as migrant labourers who wish to return to their home states are spending most of their time trying to get police permission for the journey or have left already. Officials said road and desilting works are the most hit. Read the entire story on TOI+An economy without migrant labour?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/labour-shortage-throws-a-spanner-in-pre-monsoon-road-desilting-works/articleshow/75586495.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||4 deaths, 159 new cases; casualty count inches towards 100||Times News Network JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed four more lives and 159 more tested positive, including 30 jawans of the BSF in Jodhpur, on Wednesday. So far, 93 people have lost their due to the virus in the state. A 45-year-old man from Kalwad House in Chand Pole here, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 4, died on Tuesday. He tested positive on Wednesday. In Jodhpur, an 82-year-old man from Mansagar in Mahamandir area died. He was found infected on the day he died. He had pre-existing chronic kidney disease. A 50-year-old man from Peelukheda Dam in Sawai Madhopur died in a private hospital in Jaipur on Tuesday. He tested positive on Wednesday. The fourth casualty was reported from Karauli. Jalore reported its first case when three persons were found infected. Now, 30 districts in the state have reported coronavirus cases. Districts which reported cases are Jodhpur (50), Jaipur (43), Pali (12), Ajmer (5), Alwar (3), Jalore (3), Jhalawar (3), Dholpur (2), Dungarpur (2), and one each case was reported from Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Karauli, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur and Sikar. In Jaipur, 13 persons tested positive in Ramganj area, nine in Shastri Nagar, four in Idgah, two each in Jalupura, Bhatta Basti and Kishanpole while one each case was reported from MCB Chauraha, Govindpura on Goner Road, Chandpole, Janta Colony, Paladi Meena, Chaura Rasta, Railway Loco Colony, Naya Khera, Bas Badanpura, Hasanpura and Sanganer. A papaya wholesale trader tested positive in Muhana Mandi in Mansarovar area. Health department teams reached the spot and disinfected the area. Health department claimed that the state had the highest recovery rate in the country. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the percentage of recovered cases is 47%, which is the highest in the country. In Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh, it is 39.6% and 29%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-deaths-159-new-cases-casualty-count-inches-towards-100/articleshow/75587379.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||5 docs shifted to A’bad Covid hospital resign||Rajkot: Five junior resident doctors of Junagadh Civil Hospital resigned on Tuesday evening after they were transferred to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital’s Covid-19 ward. However, their resignations are yet to be accepted by authorities at the Junagadh Medical College.The doctors who resigned include Dr Gautam Vekaria, Dr Hetal Karamta, Dr Prem Gangdev, Dr Sandip Vala and Dr Himanshu Ramchandani. They are all MBBS and expressed their reservations to join duty at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital.Dean of Junagadh Medical Collge S P Rathod told TOI, “I have sought guidance of health ministry on their resignations. Because if we accept the resignation they are required to serve only seven-day notice period.”Of the five, three doctors stated that they were likely to get selected for the post graduate course and if they joined duty at the Covid hospital in Ahmedabad it would be difficult for them to take part in the selection process. This is because they will have to remain in isolation for two weeks after being relieved from Ahmedabad hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-docs-shifted-to-abad-covid-hospital-resign/articleshow/75585274.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||When the physician became the patient||Coimbatore: It was on the fifth day of self-quarantine after as many days of duty at ESI Hospital, 29-year-old orthopedic postgraduate student *Dr Manoj’s colleague complained of feeling feverish and having a mild throat pain. Manoj calmed his colleague down and they decided to observe themselves for another 24 hours. The next day, Manoj too developed similar symptoms.Without wasting any time, the two rushed to the ESI Hospital and submitted throat swabs for testing.Manoj says, “When you examine and treat Covid-19 patients, there is always a possibility of getting infected. One could only keep thinking it won’t happen to him or her. In fact, a few friends, who knew about our symptoms, kept telling us we won’t be positive. When we were told we were infected with the novel coronavirus, it took a while for the reality to sink in.”The doctor says he began worrying about if he has infected someone and the virus’s impact on him. “Covid-19 is a new virus and there is not enough literature on it. No one knows how it will react in a body or its long-term effects. We kept reading about how many doctors and nurses abroad have died of the virus and how hospital workers have more severe symptoms because they get exposed to a high viral load. So, I was scared.”The doctor was also worried about his upcoming exams and whether he could appear for the same. “I also thought about how I could have been infected, despite wearing my personal protection equipment kit,” says the doctor who examined the first batch of Tablighi Jamaat conference returnees, who tested positive.Manoj says he felt better when he, along with his colleague, was moved to the ESI Hospital. “My fever began subsiding after the third day. While the throat pain remained for six days, it was so severe for three days that I could not swallow food and had to take only liquids. The body pain was debilitating too. It is much worse than what follows during the normal flu. I still have body pain.” While he was completely bed-ridden for four to five days of his 14-day hospitalization, he spent the remaining days talking to friends, walking around his room and studying three to four hours a day. (*Name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-the-physician-became-the-patient/articleshow/75586483.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Most shops open in city, jewellery stores remain shut||Nashik: Trade and business activities began in the city on Wednesday after the district administration gave its nod to start businesses apart from those falling under the essential services category in the non-containment areas of the city and district. Some shops in the city were forced to shut down by the police after they found that the shopkeeprs as well as customers were violating the social distancing norms. Businesses such as electric and electronic shops, mobile phone repairs, outlet of mobile companies, bakery outlets and others started operating in the city limits. Most shops were, however, not opened as they were confused about the order issued by the district collector. Moreover, jewellery and garment shops, too, did not open their shops on Wednesday. While the jewellers in the city have decided to keep their shops shut until May 17 considering the health of their customers, garment and cloth merchants have still not started their outlets and will take a call after a meeting in the regard will be held on Thursday morning. “I have two electronic shops in the city and have opened both on Wednesday morning. But I had problem in city areas when police forcibly closed one of my shops for not following social distancing norms,” said an electronics appliances showroom owner, adding that there was no problem in his other shop and that the business ran smoothly like older days. Saraf bazaar in the city, which houses over 200 jewellery shops, wore a deserted look as jewellers did not open their shops. There are over 1,500 jewellery outlets across the city and all had their shutters down. “We had closed our shops on March 20 due to outbreak of Covid-19. Although the district administration has released order pertaining to opening of all shops, we have decided to keep our shops shut till May 17,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/most-shops-open-in-city-jewellery-stores-remain-shut/articleshow/75585254.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents up in arms against liquor shops||Coimbatore: Several residents and political outfits have opposed the state government’s move to reopen Tasmac outlets in the district from Thursday.Many residents whom TOI spoke to were of the view that the decision would further distress the financial situation of working class people. Residents of CMC colony – one of the areas where sanitary workers reside in large numbers – staged a protest against the decision by holding placards. They wore masks and ensured social distancing between them. “What is the point of reopening liquor shops? While the government could manage to function without the outlets for over 40 days, why could they not manage for a little longer. The state government may claim that they had reopened it only to prevent people from traveling to neighbouring states to purchase liquors. But if they really cared for the public, they would have taken steps to control the movement not to reopen the shops,” said Parthiban, a local resident. At a time when the sanitary workers are being lauded as frontline warriors for their effort against Covid-19, the Tasmac gambit would not just be harmful to their health but also further deteriorate their financial situation, Parthiban said, adding that the move shows how much the government cares for its people. “Until recently, the government was restricting people from going to markets to control spread of the virus. But now, all of a sudden, they are opening liquor shops. Won’t the virus spread at Tasmac outlets,” asked Radhika, district secretary of AIDWA. The members had submitted a petition to the district collector urging him not to reopen the shops. Pointing out that they had been receiving numerous complaints from women, she said that once people became addicted to liquor, they would continue to buy irrespective of their financial situation.  DMK MLA N Karthik in a statement urged the government not to reopen liquor shops till the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-up-in-arms-against-liquor-shops/articleshow/75586488.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Gangster shuttling between his houses in red zones booked||VADODARA: Notorious gangster Aslam Sheikh alias Aslam Bodiyo was booked on Wednesday for violation of public notification of not leaving home without any purpose. Bodiyo, who faces five dozen different cases in Vadodara city and rural areas, was stopped on Lakkadpitha Road in Navapura on Wednesday morning when he was passing through a police checkpoint on his scooter. A police official present at the checkpoint said that when Bodiyo was asked about why he was roaming around, he said that he has three houses in Mehboobpura, Wadi and Tandalja in city and he keeps changing the house daily. On Wednesday, he was going to Wadi, the cop said. Police immediately detained his car as all his three houses fall in red zones of the city and movements in these areas are prohibited. Later, Bodiyo alleged that he was going to SSG Hospital for treatment as he suffers from breathing and blood pressure problems. “As usual he made false allegations because he was not carrying any medical papers or documents and prefers to roam around without any reason. His three houses are in red zones yet he prefers to keep changing them daily so he could be a potential super spreader of coronavirus if his movements are not restricted,” said assistant commissioner of police Megha Tevar. Besides violation of public notification, Bodiyo was also booked for criminal intimidation, using obscene words and under Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gangster-shuttling-between-his-houses-in-red-zones-booked/articleshow/75583999.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Village panchayat president booked for threatening man||Trichy: The Trichy rural police have registered a case against the panchayat president of Soorampatti village near Musiri for allegedly threatening a man who had filed a complaint against him for violating lockdown rules.Police booked P Kodi, 41 on May 1 on charges of wrongful restraining, uttering obscene words and criminal intimidation of a resident of the village, D Ramachandran, 35. Kodi is yet to be arrested.The complainant alleged that Kodi was teaching six people car driving on April 4. He advised Kodi not to violate the rules. When Kodi refused to pay heed to his appeal, Ramachandran took the matter to the notice of the Musiri police.Police visited the village and seized the car. Ramachandran alleged that Kodi was infuriated over the police action. On April 23, Kodi met him at a local shop and verbally abused him. The complainant said Kodi had abused him pointing to his handicap on his one leg. Kodi also allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. Ramachandran also said that he contested the local body election for the post of village panchayat president in December 2019 in which Kodi won.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/village-panchayat-president-booked-for-threatening-man/articleshow/75587406.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Women stage protest, want liquor sale to stop||Vijayawada: Women associations stage protest at Dharma chowk in the city demanding the government close all wine shops, on Wednesday. The women at the protest followed social distancing guidelines. The activists alleged that the government was trying to fill the treasury with the sale of liquor, which is nothing but cheating the poor. National Federation for India Woman (NFIW) state general secretary P Durga Bhavani said, “Jaganmohan Reddy and his government is playing with the lives of poor. Jagan, who promised a complete ban on liquor, hiked the price drastically. He discontinued existing brands and introduced new brands and we have many apprehensions about their quality. The lockdown is the best chance for the state government to completely ban the sale of liquor, but the government itself opened the doors for the sake of revenue.” Progressive Organisation for Woman (POW) state leader K Durga said that the poor lived peacefully during lockdown though they suffered financially. “Alcohol is affecting the lives of the poor. It is the main cause for the increase in violence against the woman. The government should immediately close liquor shops and give financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to all below poverty line families across the state,” Durga said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/women-stage-protest-want-liquor-sale-to-stop/articleshow/75585296.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||2% user charge on agri purchase||Jaipur: From Wednesday onwards, all agricultural purchase in the state will be taxed 2% user charge in the mandi. This charge will not be borne by the farmers selling their produce in the mandi, but the purchasers buying the produce. In the state budget in 2019, government had removed this user charge completely to provide facilities to the businessmen in the state. However, in 2020 this charge is now again being levied and the money thus collected will be deposited in the Kisan Kalyan Kosh by the government. In-charge Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, Karan Singh Jodha said, “The farmer does not have to pay anything in this. When the farmers get the produce to the mandi, it is auctioned by the middlemen. The buyer when finalised will be given the receipts of purchase on which 2% will be taxed. The amount will be then submitted to the Kisan Kalyan Kosh.” Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the last budget session declared that government will deposit Rs 1,000 crore in Kisan Kalyan Kosh. Sources in the department say that the decision to deposit 2% user charge in the kosh is taken as the government does not have money to fulfil its promise anymore. So, they have come up with a strategy to charge money from the businessmen, to deposit in the kosh. Until this user charge was removed in 2019, a portion of the amount collected by the tax used to go in the mandi administration’s account. According to sources, Muhana mandi was getting Rs 30 crore per year through this tax out of which 30% used to go to the government and remaining was utilized by the mandi authorities in sanitation, salaries of staff, electricity and other maintenance work. Since the user charges were removed, the condition of mandis started degrading. “We do not have separate income anymore. The 2% user charge this time will go directly to the government’s accounts and nothing will be in the pockets of the mandis. This has affected the facilities provided by the mandis and we have written to the government many times to give us some share in the amount collected but in vain,” said a senior agriculture officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-user-charge-on-agri-purchase/articleshow/75587420.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Govt raised cost of cheaper alcohol by over 100%‘||Vijayawada: The regular tipplers in Andhra Pradesh are upset over the steep hike in liquor prices—alleging that the Andhra Pradesh government goes soft on the rich, while continuing to tax the poor—with almost a 100 percent hike in liquor prices of lower-end brands. Now, scotch costs less in Andhra Pradesh while the cost of popular economy brands has doubled. Brands such as Mansion House Brandy, the most popular and highest sold brandy in the state, has become expensive as the cost increased by over 100 per cent. The new price of 750 ml bottle was Rs 1,400, as compared to Rs 680 before the lockdown. The price of Teacher’s 50 Blended Scotch whisky was Rs 2,820 (750 ml), now the price of the same brand is Rs 3,540, which is a hike of Rs 720—a 25.5 per cent hike. Similarly, the price of Ballantines 12YO (750 ml whisky) was Rs 4,210 before the lockdown and the now it is Rs 4,930, a hike of just Rs 720 (18 per cent). A senior officer with the prohibition and excise department said that that the prices of the lower-end brands has increased by 80 and 100 per cent, while the top-end brands saw a price hike of about 18 to 30 per cent only. “People from middle-class familied mostly choose Royal Challenge whiskey, but the price of the 750 ml bottle has increased from Rs 860 to Rs 1580 (a hike of 84 per cent),” he pointed out. “Most tipplers consume lower-end brands liquor, which costs Rs 120 per 180 ml, but now the cost of the drink has increased to Rs 200 per 180 ml bottle. We have noticed that the majority of the consumers reduced the quantity of purchase,” said K Prasad, a supervisor of government run liquor outlet. Meanwhile, the excise department and police have implemented ‘umbrella theory’ suggested by doctor and Padma Shri recipient, Kutikuppala Surya Rao, to maintain social distancing while queuing up to buy liquor. The police and excise officials had struggled to manage the crowd at liquor outlets on Monday and Tuesday. Vizag city police chief RK Meena asked people to carry an umbrella to maintain social distancing and get protection from scorching heat. On Wednesday, majority of the tipplers who were lining up outside liquor stores in Vizag city were seen carrying umbrellas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-raised-cost-of-cheaper-alcohol-by-over-100/articleshow/75585355.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After exodus, industry staring at losses||AHMEDABAD: The industries of Gujarat are staring at a huge crisis as migrant labourers are rushing to their home states. The exodus of migrants to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha is going to make it difficult for industries in Gujarat to open after the lockdown period. Many industries fear that they will be able to resume operations only after Diwali as many migrants will be engaged in farms at their native places during the monsoon season. Read the entire story on TOI+An economy without migrant labour?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-exodus-industry-staring-at-losses/articleshow/75586525.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL moved in HC against sale of liquor||Vijayawada: The high court was moved with a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to prohibit sale of all forms of liquor during the lockdown period. Ammisetti Siva from Guntur filed a petition contending the government decision to allow the sale of liquor, as it would have devastating effects on public health considering the rapid spread of Covid-19. Siva argued in his petition that the World Health Organisation had declared Covid-19 as pandemic and the virus has already affected majority of the countries in the world. Though the Union home ministry has issued guidelines for restricted sale of liquor, it was observed on the first day of opening of liquor shops, a wave of people hit the shops to buy liquor without observing social distancing. “While the governments imposed lockdown to contain the spread of the virus in the past 40 days which resulted in severe economic distress, opening up of liquor stores would further aggravate the situation not only on the economic front but also on the public health point of view,” he said. The state government has increased the liquor prices to discourage the consumption but the decision did not give any results as the sales have surged despite the increase in price. So the purpose of price hike only resulted in increase in state revenues, the petitioner argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-moved-in-hc-against-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/75585320.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer cop uses pedal power to reduce car use||AJMER: Lead by example, they say. The station head officer (SHO) of Alwar Gate police station in Ajmer is doing just that. As there’s restriction on movement of vehicles for public, SHO Mukesh Choudhary (43) has given up patrolling in his official vehicle. He now cycles around the area ensuring that people do not use their vehicles. Daily, he covers of 8-10km on cycle, making three rounds to the checkposts in his area. Notably, Alwar Gate police station has imposed the highest number of penalties against illegal and unauthorized use of vehicles. “We want people to remain safe,” adds Choudhary, claiming that the number of people violating the lockdown directives has come down drastically. Choudhary begins his patrolling early in the morning and stops all those who are seen travelling on bike or car. “The people have move been advised to walk or ride a cycle if they come out their houses to buy essentials. As I myself ride a cycle, it is easier for me to convince them,” says Choudhary. “The general belief is that there are no rules for cops but only for the common man. In the scenario of a pandemic, it is important that the directives and precautions be followed by everybody, so I decided to shun the official vehicle. Seeing me ride a bicycle has motivated people to do so,” he says. Choudhary admits that his colleagues too are encouraged to work better seeing a senior ride a bicycle in the hot weather. “Additionally, it has also made me more fit and healthy,” he admits with a smile. Choudhary’s family lives in Jaipur and since the lockdown he has not met them. “We have a small staff and hence I decided not to leave the police station in this time of emergency,” he said. “I talk to my family on video call every day. Ajmer and Jaipur are both included in the red zone, so it is best for them that I do not visit them and increase the risks. My wife and two children ask me daily whether I am taking enough precautions and sanitising myself after duty hours,” he said, adding that his children remain in touch with him throughout the day via messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-cop-uses-pedal-power-to-reduce-car-use/articleshow/75587409.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Mission to bring back Indians starts||New Delhi: The first aircraft to bring back Indians stranded abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission was scheduled to take off from Indira Gandhi International Airport at 11.30pm on Thursday. The Air India plane will fly to Singapore, from where it will bring back the first batch of around 150 passengers to Delhi on Friday at 11.35am. Vande Bharat Mission will involve 64 flights between May 7 and 13. Fourteen of these will land at IGIA. Indian aircraft will fly to Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines and the United Kingdom. People will also arrive from locations like Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, UAE and USA. An IGIA official disclosed that the flight departing Delhi on Thursday night will bring back Indians who live in and around Delhi. All those arriving, however, will be put in mandatory quarantine for 14 days before they are allowed to leave for their respective destinations, an official said. While the Air India craft will be empty on its way to Singapore on Thursday, the national carrier has opened bookings to fly people out of India to the US, UK and Singapore on the special flights it will operate in the first week of the massive repatriation exercise. There will be at least six crew members on each flight of the mission. Speaking of the mission flights, officials of IGIA and CISF said they were taking precautions to see that every passenger, departing and arriving, was screened for Covid-19 symptoms. Counters for this task have been set up. Social distancing norms will be adhered to and baggage will be sanitised. The passengers landing in Delhi from different parts of the world will be screened as soon as they disembark. “Passengers boarding the flight in Delhi will be driven to the airport in buses and assembled there at least an hour before they can enter the building,” revealed an official. “The boarding procedures will take more time than normal because of social distancing requirements. Everyone has been told that there can be consequences if they do not cooperate with the authorities.” “The government of India and Air India have been working out the logistics of the repatriation flights based on the number of citizens to be brought back. We expect around 200 passengers per flight. Delhi government will determine the locations where the arriving passengers will be kept in quarantine,” said a spokesperson of Delhi International Airport Limited. The special sanitising tunnel created for use when operations resume after the lockdown will be employed during the Vande Bharat Mission. “Close to 3,100 Indians will be passing through Delhi airport over seven days,” revealed the IGIA official. “Delhi government has shared a standard operating procedure to be followed, while guidelines from the Union ministries of civil aviation and health are already in place.” Over 500 personnel from DIAL’s operations, cargo and housekeeping sections, Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting and apron control department have been working round-the-clock with CISF, immigration, ground handling agencies and air traffic control to ensure a glitch-free mission. DIAL said its housekeeping staff has been sanitising each item on the complex every few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mission-to-bring-back-indians-starts/articleshow/75611289.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 41%||VIJAYAWADA: In what comes as a relief amid the growing spate of positive cases in the state over the past two weeks, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has shown a gradual rise. As of Wednesday, 729 patients were declared successfully treated, a recovery rate of 41%, ahead of the national recovery rate of 28%. The surge of new infections over the last two weeks had placed a burden on the state’s healthcare system. The improving recovery rate will avoid overcrowding of hospitals, lower death rate, decrease dependence on ventilators and the need to monitor patients and do away with the need of medical personnel working overtime. In terms of district-wise performance, Kurnool comes out top in terms of numbers, with 153 patients cured, followed by Guntur (129) and Krishna (117). Prakasam district performs best in terms of overall recovery rate. Of the 61 cases recorded in the district, 52 have been discharged so far. Chittoor district also has a recovery rate of above 80%. In Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts — classified as red zone districts following the large number of cases reported — the recovery rate is below 50%. Altogether, 36 patients have succumbed to the disease, a mortality rate of 2%. Srikakulam district, which reported its first three cases on April 25, has not discharged any patient till date. Vizianagaram, the last remaining green zone district in the state, recorded its first case on Wednesday. An official announcement is expected on Thursday. Several patients above the age of 60 and with comorbidities have also been successfully treated. The oldest patient to recover is an 85-year-old woman from Anantapur district. According to health officials, nearly 70% of cases in the state are asymptomatic, leading to the need for aggressive testing. Meanwhile, the state government permitted blood banks at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences, Tirupati and Government General Hospital, Kurnool to collect and store convalescent plasma from Covid-19 patients who have been successfully treated. As part of the therapy, the plasma, containing antibodies of a recovered patient will be administered to those undergoing treatment. According to state health officials, short clinical trials in some countries have shown that plasma therapy can be effective in treating moderate to severely ill Covid-19 patients. The lgG antibody titres are at high level after the 14th day of infection, which gradually comes down, reducing the effectiveness of convalescent plasma in treatment. The plasma can be stored at -40 °C and has a shelf life of one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aps-covid-recovery-rate-stands-at-41/articleshow/75585327.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||12 cops quarantined following Parvati Ngr death||Nagpur: Eighty three staffers of Beltarodi police station, including seven officers, were urgently screened for Covid-19 on Wednesday after a naik police constable’s relative succumbed a day earlier to the virus. Eight cops from Beltarodi have been sent for institutional quarantine and another four from Ajni police station have been home quarantined after the relative tested positive post death at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The four had conducted inquest panchnama of the deceased. The cop whose relative died is part of the detection branch (DB) of Beltarodi police. He was part of the eight-member team that is now quarantined. Beltarodi police station and its vehicles were also sanitized. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the police hospital, had to rush to Beltarodi police station with his team for conducting the thermal screening and check blood oxygen level of personnel. Dr Shinde said all personnel were also briefed about the precautions they were supposed to take now. “We did not find any abnormalities in any of the personnel as of now,” he said. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police said seven personnel who were with the concerned constable had been earmarked and told to remain in isolation as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-cops-quarantined-following-parvati-ngr-death/articleshow/75587416.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Home after 40 days, dad says daughter fought with lot of positivity and bravery||Nagpur: After nearly 40 days of hospitalization, Suresh and his 16-year-old daughter Smita (names changed) were the last ones to leave ward No 4 of the Mayo hospital on Tuesday. For over a month, the father-daughter duo put their patience to test, witnessing other Covid-19 patients recovering and getting discharged. Though Suresh was declared fit to go home on April 11, he decided to stay on till Smita too left corona behind. The wait was for her to test negative twice. “The most difficult times were when she would break down seeing her ‘positive’ test results. But she would soon compose herself and wait,” says Suresh, who was hospitalized on March 26, a day before Smita. Staying 15 feet away from his only child, the father did everything he could to keep her motivated. “I arranged for a mobile so that she could play online Ludo. She would also read books and talk to her cousins. I would feed her everyday and did all her chores like she would have,” he says. Smita’s mother, who did not get the virus, would talk to them daily on video call. Suresh, who had gone to New Delhi in mid-February with his colleague from the Khamla shop, contracted the virus in the train. The colleague and his 11-year-old daughter got discharged on April 29. “Being around known faces would keep our spirits high. We were happy to see them recover, it gave me hope for my daughter,” says Suresh. The father expressed gratitude for the hospital administration for letting him stay with his daughter during the tough time. “There was no way I would have left her alone. She is my only child and I had to take care of her. The hospital staff was very accommodating and we didn’t face any problem,” he says. After mastering the art of patience in these 40 days, Suresh brought home a message for everyone: “The situation is scary and people are panicking due to the pandemic. But I want to tell everyone not to live in fear. We all need to wait for this to pass,” he says. Smita, who has just entered 12th grade, is now looking forward to catch up with her studies. “Though she has missed some classes, her teachers have assured to help her with the course. She has fought coronavirus with a lot of positivity and bravery,” says the proud father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-after-40-days-dad-says-daughter-fought-with-lot-of-positivity-and-bravery/articleshow/75587418.cms||Manka Behl
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Migrants account for 30% road deaths during lockdown: Study||MUMBAI: A study conducted by SaveLIFE, a non-profit committed to road safety, has found that there were 25,000 helmetless riding cases registered in Maharashtra during the first two phases of the lockdown. The country recorded more than 600 road crashes and 140 lives were lost in the past five weeks to road accidents, of which 30% were that of migrants travelling home. Maharashtra recorded the maximum violations under the Motor Vehicle Safety Act. The period of study was between March 24 and April 14, and from April 14 to May 3. Further analysis of these road crash deaths reveals that around 30 percent of these victims were migrants travelling back home. Almost 57 percent of the deaths were of people driving during the lockdown. The most common causal factor was speeding. The rest of the deaths were of essential workers like doctors, who were travelling either from or to their places of work. “While there has been a dip in the absolute number of road crash fatalities during lockdown due to suspension of public transport and general mobility, the rate of deaths in road crashes has remained unchanged, highlighting how unsafe Indian roads are even when the country has been under restrictions,” said Piyush Tewari, Founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation. He further said, “India has the highest number of road crash deaths globally each year. Though there will be a dip in that number this year due to the lockdown, 140 deaths in over 600 crashes goes to show that the gains achieved will be lost as soon as things go back to normal.” The third phase of the lockdown is a golden opportunity for states to fix engineering faults in our roads and institute mechanisms for electronic enforcement so that when things become normal, we can keep road fatalities low, he suggested. Many states have issued Standard Operating Protocols (SOPs) for the inter-state movement of people. Governments should also prioritise road safety while notifying these SOPs, since a large number of crashes have involved vehicles ferrying people across states. “The health system is already over-burdened. It is imperative that we stick to safe driving practices to ensure that the health workers are not further burdened with preventable road crash cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/migrants-account-for-30-road-deaths-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/75587453.cms||Somit Sen
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown gets meat lovers’ goat as abattoir yet to open in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Though the price of mutton is soaring and customers are being made to pay through the nose, the city’s only functional abattoir at Ghazipur remains closed for 45 days and counting. The closure orders were issued by East Delhi Municipal Corporation on March 24 when the lockdown came into force to “restrict close proximity of human involvement to contain Covid-19”. However, EDMC argued that it later granted permission to a private operator on the condition that social distancing was enforced on the premises. EDMC spokesperson Arun Kumar said that the operator, Frigorifico Allana, is not willing to run the facility in the current circumstances. “We had told them to ensure availability of livestock and practise social distancing while butchering. But the operator might be facing a reduction in demand for meat for export, affecting profits,” Kumar said. As per the rules, butchers need to keep a distance of 2 metres, which can end in capacity reduction to half. Several factors seem to be at play behind the closure of the slaughterhouse. Though the facility is located on the highway and the central government has granted permission for movement of goods, most of the animals brought to Ghazipur are transported from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, where multiple restrictions exist. Moreover, the 10-year lease period of the firm running the plant has expired. A senior EDMC official said that extensions could be granted to the operator. “The plant runs in three shifts, of which two are for local consumption and one for export purposes. Since exports are currently hit, it will be less profitable for the company to run the plant,” the official added. Sufian, the in-charge of operations for Allana, said the company has not accepted the extension. “We have replied to the corporation. We also didn’t insist on the abattoir being opened as it would have been very difficult to ensure social distancing. There are 2,000-2,500 people present at any given time and it’s not possible to manage such a huge number,” he added. Meanwhile, the price of mutton on several online outlets has gone over Rs 1,500 per kg. Residents fear illegal slaughtering of animal may lead to issues of hygiene and public health. Gulfam Qureshi, who heads the local livestock market at Ghazipur, said that the abattoir has been closed on the pretext of high footfall, but the same conditions exist in the chicken, vegetable and fish markets, all of which are running. “Excuses are being made to avoid opening the market,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-gets-meat-lovers-goat-as-abattoir-yet-to-open/articleshow/75611338.cms||Paras Singh
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Hegde: Probe rumours of ‘secret burials’ in Bhatkal||Karwar: Member of Parliament from Uttara Kannada, Anantkumar Hegde, on Wednesday asked the district administration to verify reports that there were 22 suspicious deaths in Bhatkal town in the past 45 days and they were buried secretly. Anantkumar was in Bhatkal on Wednesday. Holding a video conference with the deputy commissioner, SP, CEO of ZP and officials of various other departments, he said he had information that out of the 22 deaths, only eight were said to be natural. The district administration should gather information immediately to know how many people have died and buried in the town without informing officials. He also asked the officials to install CCTV cameras around all burial grounds in and around Bhatkal and if there is any death, the body should not be buried till the administration gives green signal, he said. Harish Kumar K, DC and Shivaprakash Devaraju told the MP that round-the-clock vigilance would be kept around burial grounds in Bhatkal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hegde-probe-rumours-of-secret-burials-in-bhatkal/articleshow/75583823.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh to bear travel expense of migrant workers going home||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to make arrangements for transport of migrant workers to their home states without waiting for financial clearance from the respective states. Stating that the state government would foot the bill for transporting the workers to their native places, the CM urged officials to be show compassion to migrant workers, irrespective of whether they are leaving the state or coming home. The chief minister, who reviewed the government’s Covid-19 containment measures at his camp office on Wednesday, also asked officials to pay Rs 500 to each worker towards travel expenses while sending them back. He also wanted them to be proactive in bringing workers from AP who have been stranded in other states. “Take the lead and make transport arrangements if the host state does not respond to their pleas to provide transport,” he said. He wanted the quarantine arrangements in the state to be fool-proof for foreign returnees. “Arrangements must be in place in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati airports where foreign returnees are expected to arrive. All of them must be screened for Covid-19 and quarantined,” he instructed. The CM was also informed that about 1,000 workers from Guntakal in Anantapur district have returned from Thane in Maharashtra and are being screened by medical teams following which they would be sent to quarantine centres. Nine checkposts at Anantapur have been set up and additional police and medical teams deployed. The CM directed officials to ensure people travelling with medical emergencies were not inconvenienced. Meanwhile, the government has decided to issue special passes to all needy people from the agriculture sector. SPs and joint collectors of all districts have been asked to ensure that hurdles are not created for transport of agriculture produce anywhere in the state. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, which met on Wednesday, assured farmers of all assistance from the government. “An incident of farmers throwing vegetables on streets after police denied them permission to take their stocks to the market has come to our notice. It is an unfortunate incident. No such incidents should happen in future,” agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-to-bear-travel-expense-of-migrant-workers-going-home/articleshow/75585386.cms||Samdani MN
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Out of money, barber hangs to death||CHENNAI: A 38-year-old barber, who had grown dejected over his loss of income due to the lockdown and had run out of money, hanged himself to death at his saloon in Taramani on Tuesday. S Bharani, a school dropout, was trained in the trade by his father and grandfather and had been working as a barber at the rented premises in Taramani for the past 15 years. On customer demand, he even installed an AC at the shop recently using his savings. Ever since the lockdown was announced, Bharani would set out to his shop every day and sit alone outside it, hoping to reopen it some time soon, his family said. He would return home only for meals. But, news of a saloon in Koyambedu being shut after the owner tested positive crushed his hopes of opening his shop soon. After the lockdown was extended on May 3, the father of two children – Kaushik, 11 and Kamesh, 7 — grew more restless and spent many a sleepless night worried about his children’s future, his wife Vijayalakshmi said. He was glued to the television, hoping to hear the good news of saloons being allowed to function again. It was a herculean task for Bharani to run his family of five for the past 40 days. He managed to pull through using his savings and borrowing money from friends and neighbours. But, borrowing money to make ends meet was not easy for him, Vijayalakshmi said. “He would think twice before asking someone for money.” On Monday, his savings and all the money he had borrowed dried up. “He had nothing on his mind, other than the welfare of his children. He sounded sad and subdued,” said Vijayalakshmi. “His mother and I tried to convince him saying we would pitch in to support the family financially by taking up jobs as domestic helps.” “He never trained his sons in the trade as he always felt that they deserved a good education unlike him,” she said, holding back her tears. On Tuesday, he left home telling his family that he felt like opening his saloon just once to have a look at it. Since he did not return for lunch or dinner, his aged mother Lakshmi went looking for Bharani and found him dead in the shop. Before he took the extreme step, Bharani had cleaned up his shop, leaving everything spic and span. His body was sent for autopsy and later handed over to his family. Tamil Nadu Hair Dressers Association president V Palani said the sector has been badly hit by the lockdown. “Many others like Bharani are suffering in silence with no aid. The government should consider reopening such shops with necessary safety precautions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/out-of-money-barber-hangs-to-death/articleshow/75586561.cms||Sindhu Kannan
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat leads in number of trains for migrant workers||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat has sent the maximum number of migrant workers to their respective home states in special trains during the past week, the state government said on Wednesday. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “The state government has made necessary arrangements to send back migrant workers to their respective states by providing sufficient number of trains and private buses. At the same time, the CM has appealed to migrant workers to be patient, as the process of approvals takes time. Gujarat leads India in running the maximum number of labour trains. The state has operated 39 trains in the last 4 days and sent more than 46,000 migrant labourers to their respective homes.” Kumar added that 30 more trains will leave Gujarat today and with that, as many as 82,000 migrant workers will reach their respective states. “Around 3.25 lakh labourers have been sent to their respective natives through trains and buses till date.. The state government will continue the necessary arrangements for the coming 15 days,” he said. The district administration in Surat has made special provisions by contacting community leaders in UP, Odisha and Jharkhand to ensure necessary arrangements are in place. The workers will be provided the details of the community leaders through phone and text message via the administration. Gujaratis stranded abroad will be helped to return The ministry of foreign affairs, government of India has arranged flights to bring back stranded Indians. All Gujaratis stranded outside India will be required to provide necessary details to the Indian Mission in the respective countries. However, the cost of tickets will have to borne by the passengers. Kumar said, “Around 1,500 Gujaratis will be brought home in Phase-1 from May 7. These include 250 from Philippines, 600 from the USA, 250 from Singapore, 250 from the UK and 200 from Kuwait. The passengers will undergo a health check after landing in the state. Mamata Verma, principal secretary, tourism, will oversee the task of ensuring return of Gujaratis stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-leads-in-number-of-trains-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/75586558.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||3 deaths in Vid, biggest single day spike in Nagpur||Nagpur: Wednesday was the worst day for Vidarbha in terms of Covid-19 cases. The day not only registered the highest single day surge of 71 positives, there were three deaths too — in Nagpur, Amravati and Akola. The earlier single day spike of 42 in Vidarbha was registered on April 25. The total positive case in region is now 497. Nagpur alone had 68 positive cases, going past the earlier day record of 19 by a long way. Among the positives is a 22-yr-old young man from Parvati Nagar area in Ajni. He tested positive after his sudden death in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The deceased is the youngest Covid victim in Vidarbha. Apart from the deceased in Parvati Nagar, cases were reported from three new localities in Nagpur. A homeopathy doctor from Bada Tajbagh, an NMC nurse from Ganeshpeth and a truck cleaner from Jaripatka tested positive. The nurse, a Covid warrior with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), is the first case in Vidarbha where a health worker deployed to fight the coronavirus got infected. In Akola, a 75-year-old patient admitted in the isolation ward of the GMCH died during treatment. The deceased was admitted on May 2. He was a resident of Khangan Pura. The man tested positive on May 5 and his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. Two women from Taj Nagar and Radhakisan Plots area tested positive in Akola taking total number of cases to 77. With 13 patients recovered and discharged, 6 deaths and 1 suicide, total number of active cases in city is now 55. Akola has been constantly registering increase in number of patients from May 3 (15), May 4 (9) and May 5 (11). Total number of patients in Akola is now 77. A 70-yr-old woman was Amravati’s 11th victim. Though she died on Tuesday morning, it was brought on record a day late. The deceased is a resident of Azad Colony locality in Kholapuri Gate area. Her swab samples were taken as part of random survey conducted by Amravati Municipal Corporation health team as she was found suffering from cough, cold and fever. When her report came positive late on Monday night, the administration ordered her to be brought to the Covid hospital. “However, she died by the time the ambulance reached the hospital,” said an official. “A miscommunication (by AMC) in reporting the death to health administration could have resulted in the case not being recorded in daily report of the civil surgeon’s office. There is no reason of hiding death. Our total Covid count is 70 with 11 deaths as of today,” said district collector Shailesh Naval to TOI. The count of 70 includes 1 death which was referred to GMCH, Nagpur, and five recovered cases. The Covid hospital also reported death of another female suspect from Gulista Nagar this noon. Whether she was positive or not will become clear only when the report of her swab arrives. A woman tested positive in Yavatmal after 30 days. She was from a containment area in Yavatmal and was kept in institutional quarantine centre of GMCH from April 1 as she was asymptomatic. After repeated negative reports, she tested positive on May 3 and was shifted to isolation ward. Considering the 7 to 14-day incubation period of the virus, the question now remains whether the woman contracted the infection while in custody of the GMCH. The GMCH had also failed to disclose three incidents of deliveries in the isolation ward. Three women, including a Covid negative mother who had accompanied her 5-year-old positive daughter to the isolation ward, had delivered babies. As all of them and their babies tested negative, they were discharged. However, the GMCH had not revealed this information. It’s learnt that yet another woman, kept in institutional quarantine, is expecting a baby soon. Her swab samples have been sent for testing and the report is awaited. This fact also was not disclosed. Meanwhile a 50-year-old man from Ner municipal council, 30km away from Yavatmal, tested positive on Wednesday. This is the first case out of Yavatmal city. This took total number of active cases in Yavatmal to 82 and total Covid-19 cases till date to 92. No new cases were reported in Chandrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-deaths-in-vid-biggest-single-day-spike-in-nagpur/articleshow/75587460.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||50% Ajni Rly Colony in Parvati Nagar containment zone||Nagpur: The fears of Ajni Railway Colony have come true. Around 50% of the colony has been notified under Parvati Nagar containment zone. TOI had on April 2 highlighted how the railways blocked four roads connecting Parvati Nagar with Ajni Railway Colony. The four roads were dug up and Railway Police Force (RPF) personnel were deployed to restrict entry of people and vehicles from Parvati Nagar and adjoining areas into the colony. The move was to prevent spread of Covid-19 in the colony if any case appears in Parvati Nagar and adjoining areas. However, the railways did not obtain proper permission from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to block the roads. Also, the railways started to construct a compound wall to block the roads permanently. After TOI’s report, Ajni police warned of action against the railways. The roads were then reopened for people from Parvati Nagar and adjoining areas. On Tuesday, a youth from Parvati Nagar died, and his samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has notified containment zone including 50% areas of Ajni Railway Colony, RPF barracks, RPF station, quarters and other houses. Parvati Nagar and adjoining areas are also part of the containment zone, where people will not be allowed to go out, except for emergency services, and those from outside cannot enter this zone. NMC teams will also conduct door-to-door survey to identify suspected and high-risk patients. The containment zone has been notified with boundaries at Railway Colony, Maurya Hall at Parvati Nagar, Bauddh Vihar on Rameshwari Road, Trisharan Chowk, Masjid, Hanuman Mandir, Water Tank Railway Colony, Sanjay Kirana and Container Depot compound wall. This is the 14th containment zone notified in the city. With the latest one, nine zones are in existence — Satranjipura, Mominpura, Gittikhadan, Bairagipura, Shanti Nagar, Dalalpura, Bhaldarpura, Sangam Nagar and Parvati Nagar. Five others — Bajaj Nagar, Khamla, Jaripatka, housing society near Gandhisagar, and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar — were reportedly denotified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-ajni-rly-colony-in-parvati-nagar-containment-zone/articleshow/75587442.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Anna University to lose IoE tag if Tamil Nadu doesn’t give commitment by May 31||CHENNAI: While the Tamil Nadu government is still undecided over its commitment for funds to get Institute of Eminence (IoE) status to Anna University, the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) asked the university to submit the letter of commitment by May 31 failing which the university would lose the status. The varsity has urged the government to expedite the process and issue the letter so it can obtain the prestigious status which would fetch the university up to Rs 1,000 crore and more academic freedom that would help the university scale new heights . Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa confirmed that the university had received a letter from MHRD on the IoE status. “It’s a very unique opportunity for the university that could boost its standing to the next level among top universities. If we lose IoE status, it would be a big loss to Tamil Nadu and its people particularly the students,” said V-C Surappa. He added that ther will not be an iota of change, including in the administrative structure, and no dilution of control of the state government over the university. Since the varsity is a state university, the MHRD demanded the letter of commitment from the state government assuring its share of funds for IoE status. The government has held several rounds of discussions with the university seeking clarity on various issues including reservation, admissions and control of the university once IoE status is achieved. “The government cannot take this decision in haste,” higher education minister K P Anbalagan said when asked about the MHRD’s deadline. “The CM has formed a committee of ministers to study the issues involved in getting IoE status for Anna University. Based on the report from the committee, the CM would take a call on issuing the letter of commitment.” Based on the cabinet’s decision, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami formed a committee of ministers comprising Anbalagan, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan, electricity minister P Thangamani, fisheries minister D Jayakumar and law minister C Ve Shanmugam to study the issue. The committee is yet to submit its report. “We need more clarity on issues like mode of admissions to the university after IoE status and also on what would happen to the university after five years of funding from the Union government,” a government source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-to-lose-ioe-tag-if-tn-doesnt-give-commitment-by-may-31/articleshow/75586619.cms||A Ragu Raman
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Three detained under PASA for attacking cops||VADODARA: Three persons, who were involved in the attack on policemen and workers of roads and building department on May 3 in Godhra, were detained under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). Police had to lob teargas shells after the mob pelted them with stones while a containment zone was being barricaded. According to the police, the incident took place when their personnel as well as workers of the roads and building department were working at Guhya Mohalla. A mob attacked the teams saying that there was no coronavirus in the area and the police were unnecessarily harassing the residents there. Stones were pelted and the police had to lob teargas shells to quell the violence. As many as 39 people have been arrested by the police in connection with the violence. A woman, who was held, tested positive for Covid-19. The police have kept the arrested persons in Covid custody and sent their samples to laboratory for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-detained-under-pasa-for-attacking-cops/articleshow/75584025.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Again, GMCH docs, staff attend patient without safety gear, 10 quarantined||Nagpur: After samples of the deceased from Parvati Nagar tested positive, 10 doctors and attendants from GMCH were quarantined and tested on Wednesday. This is the second time staff of GMCH had to be quarantined and tested as they had attended to patients without safety measures. One of the relatives of the deceased told TOI, “The body of the deceased was not even wrapped in the ward, and handed over to the mortuary department as a normal case. The body was kept like that in mortuary department from Tuesday afternoon till reports came positive at 9am on Wednesday,” he said. GMCH officials told TOI, “10 doctors and attendants were quarantined as they were exposed to the patient when brought to casualty and ward.” Staffers at mortuary department were reportedly not quarantined or tested. Earlier, doctors and staff of GMCH had been quarantined after a paralytic patient from Jaripatka tested positive after being admitted in the ward. Covid-19 guidelines say doctors and staff should wear PPE kits when attending to any suspected patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/again-gmch-docs-staff-attend-patient-without-safety-gear-10-quarantined/articleshow/75587467.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 1 lakh fisherfolk get Rs 10,000 from government as off-season assistance||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has said the government will complete construction of eight fishing harbours in the next three years to prevent fishermen from migrating to other states. The government will spend close to Rs 3,000 crore for the project that is meant to offer a permanent solution to the decades-long struggle of local fishermen, the CM said. The CM launched the YSR Matsyakara Bharosa programme on Wednesday. The government released financial assistance of Rs 10,000 to each fisherman as off-season assistance. The amount has been credited to the bank accounts of 1,32,332 fishermen. Interacting with fishermen through video-conference, the CM said the government decided to go ahead with the release of financial assistance despite severe financial constraints due to Covid-19. The government will also construct fish landing centre at Manchineellapet in Srikakulam district along with fishing harbours in Budagatlapalem (Srikakulam), Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam), Uppada (East Godavari), Biyyaputippa (West Godavari), Machilipatnam (Krishna), Nizampatnam (Guntur), Kothapatnam (Prakasam) and Juvvaladinne (Nellore). “We have increased the assistance to Rs 10,000 from a mere Rs 4,000 in the past. All sea-going fishermen between the ages of 21- 60 years in the state who are operating motorised and non-motorised boats will get the benefit,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-1-lakh-fisherfolk-get-rs-10000-from-government-as-off-season-assistance/articleshow/75585452.cms||Samdani MN
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Only 12,000 undocumented Indians opted or general amnesty in Kuwait||Mangalore: Only 12,000 undocumented Indian expatriates availed the general amnesty announced by the Kuwaiti government, according to the data shared by the Indian Embassy in Kuwait. The Indian government had expected 25,000 people from India to opt for the scheme. The last date to avail amnesty ended on April 30. About 6,000 Indian nationals, who opted for amnesty, have been shifted to special camps. “They will be flown to India once the flight operation commences,” said Sibi U S, second secretary (labour), Indian Embassy, Kuwait. The majority of those who availed general amnesty were blue-collar workers and had been staying in Kuwait without valid documents. The general amnesty allows undocumented expatriates to leave Kuwait without fine. They also get free flight ticket to return home. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has also approved waiver of fee for emergency certificates. Another official, who wished to remain anonymous, said many did not come opt for amnesty as India was under lockdown and airline services are suspended. Most of these blue-collar workers came to Kuwait through the typical system of sponsorship. However, due to various issues they lost their visa and documents. Some of them had their documents allegedly seized by the employers. In the previous amnesty in 2018, about 15,000 Indians returned home and another 5,000 regularised or adjusted their status of residency in Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/only-12000-undocumented-indians-opted-or-general-amnesty-in-kuwait/articleshow/75583886.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat RERA implements financial quarterly filings||AHMEDABAD: Real estate developers will now be able to file Quarterly Progress Report (QPR) according to financial quarters. Currently, realtors have to submit their progress reports every three months from the month their projects are registered with Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gujarat RERA). Considering the real estate project promoters’ demand of extending the time for filing QPRs in the wake of extension in the lockdown, Gujarat RERA has decided to implement financial quarter based project progress reporting system for registered realty projects. Irrespective of their last QPR filing, the developers will now be required to file their QPRs during a financial quarter and the last date of filing will be the 7th day after a financial quarter ends. For the April-June quarter of fiscal 2020-21, QPRs will be due to be filed by July 7, 2020, the authority said in a notification issued on Wednesday. The authority will also exempt defaulting projects (as on March 2020) from any regulatory action if QPRs for such projects are filed by July 7. Stringent action, however, will be taken against the promoters who fail to submit QPRs for the first quarter of this fiscal by July 7, Gujarat RERA made it clear in the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-rera-implements-financial-quarterly-filings/articleshow/75586596.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA to work with 33% staff||Dehradun: The Mussoorie and Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) held a meeting on Wednesday in which it was decided that the body will start functioning with only 33% of the workforce in the office and the other staff, based on the requirement, will work from home. During the meet, MDDA vice-chairman Ashish Srivastava ordered that all works related to residential colonies, including Rajpur Park’s beautification, should be completed. Additionally, works on sixteen development-related projects are to be started and the members were ordered to address worker-related issues in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-to-work-with-33-staff/articleshow/75585516.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Malls submit SOP to West Bengal CM for nod to resume operations||KOLKATA: Managements of malls and shopping centres in Kolkata have laid out an elaborate SOP before CM Mamata Banerjee and pitched for them to resume operations in a calibrated manner. The document has also been submitted to the Union home ministry by the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), the apex body of malls and shopping complexes in the country. “We are trying to create a sustainable and responsible business protocol for shopping centres that can operate in a much more structured and safe manner than standalone shops that have been allowed to open. Malls are the safest place to shop,” said SCAI director Rahul Saraf, who is also the promoter of Kolkata’s first mall, Forum, as well as Forum Rangoli in Belur, Howrah. The SOP, drawn up after a lot of brainstorming and deliberation on best practices worldwide, include limited operations between noon and 9pm, allow one customer per 75sqft, open shops in a phased manner starting with essentials like eyewear, infant clothing, work-from-home electronics and electricals, footwear and takeaways, and home deliveries from food courts and restaurants, followed by food courts and F&B outlets in the second phase and multiplex in the third. In Kolkata, malls account for around 50 lakh sqft sales and F&B area and employ around 10,000 staffers, comprising security, housekeeping and maintenenace personnel. They offer employment to around 30,000 sales staffers. Pointing to the long queues at standalone off-shops, where social distancing norms were openly flouted, SCAI member and promoter of Acropolis as well as co-promoter of South City Mall Sushil Mohta said malls were better equipped to operate in a safe environment. “Malls offer a controlled environment where enhanced sanitation and hygiene requirements can be met. Our trained staffers have been handling crowds of 50,000 to 1 lakh a day. Now, that we have proposed to restrict entry to fewer people, maintaining social distancing norms will not be a problem,” he said. Harshvardhan Neotia, promoter of City Centre I & II, was part of the discussions that led to the formation of the SOP but has a different view. "The government must be sequencing the opening up in a graded mannder. In terms of survival, local shops are more vulnerable and perhaps that is why they've been allowed to open first. The time will come for malls to open and when it does, the SOP will come in handy," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-submit-sop-to-cm-for-nod-to-resume-ops/articleshow/75587487.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC defers poll process to post-lockdown period||Vijayawada: The State Election Commission on Wednesday issued fresh orders putting the local body elections on hold till further notice. State  commissioner Justice V Kanagaraj said that the election process would resume once the lockdown is lifted. The SEC would take further decision after due consultation with the state government on the prevailing situation in the state, he said in the notification. The local body elections were put on hold by the SEC on March 15 for a period of six weeks due to coronavirus. However, the SEC kept the model code of conduct in force which was challenged by the state government in Supreme Court. The court had upheld the SEC decision but lifted the model code of conduct giving a sigh of relief to the state, which had planned a series of programmes by then. It was after this order that the state government acted fast and brought in an ordinance reducing the term of office of the SEC from five years to three and appointed Justice Kanagaraj as the new SEC. Even as the issue is in the high court with the former SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar and some others challenging the ordinance, the new SEC issued fresh orders in line with the high court directions. The SEC also quoted the orders of the AP high court which prevented it from holding the local body elections and had laid condition that the paintings on the panchayat buildings are to be changed. Accordingly, the SEC said that the local body elections which were put on hold for six weeks on March 15, would continue to be on hold till further orders. “The State Election Commission, after careful consideration of the judgments and also other relevant factors, decided to issue further orders withholding the election process of MPTCs/ZPTCs and urban local bodies until further orders as the lockdown guidelines which prohibit public gatherings remain in force and process of removal of colours on panchayat buildings is yet to be completed by the government as per the directions of the high court,” the commission said in the fresh notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-defers-poll-process-to-post-lockdown-period/articleshow/75585481.cms||Gopi Dara
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Now, harming bats will invite legal action in Rajasthan||JAIPUR =: In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, which has given rise to widespread hostility and fear towards bats among the people, Rajasthan’s chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar has issued a circular to all deputy conservators of forests in the state to educate people against harming these flying mammals. A warning has also been issued to take legal action if anyone is found killing or harming bats or their habitat in the state. After Karnataka, Rajasthan has become the second state to protect these mammals amid the Covid-19 pandemic. TOI on May 4 raised the issue that hunting of these flying mammals and extermination of their colonies were on the rise in the state. Dua Lal Bohra, conservationist and IUCN member, wildlife health, said, “Forest department intervened on right time to rescue these flying mammals. As warning is issued, people will not disturb the bats during their breeding season.” A forest official informed, bats fall under Schedule V of Indian Wildlife Act, 1972 and till date, there was no provision of punishment for killing them. “They are essential for ecosystem, human health and agriculture. Now, after the orders have been released, action will be taken against the offenders,” said the official. It was stressed that bats are mighty tools against the pests that damage crops. “Its pest-control services are invisible to humans as they do their insect marauding at night when no one is watching. These creatures are non-toxic, biological control for some agricultural pests, as well as for mosquitoes that may be human disease vectors,” added the forest official. Researchers claim that the situation worsened after a recent paper on bats from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was misrepresented. The layman has been convinced that the mammal is a corona vector. However, conservationists from South Asian countries have recently stepped forth to defend these bats and debunk the myth that these mammals are vectors of the novel coronavirus, (SARS-CoV-2). The biologists also claimed that there is no cause for panic as the BtCoV is not the same as SARSCoV-2 and cannot cause Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-harming-bats-will-invite-legal-action-in-raj/articleshow/75587495.cms||Ajay Singh
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH Nagpur part of national plasma therapy trials||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur has joined the mission to check whether plasma therapy can prove to be a useful treatment in Covid-19. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 21 institutes in country for this task, and GMCH is one of them, confirmed dean Dr Sajal Mitra. “This is a major clinical trial to be held in next few days. We have already shortlisted 4-5 patients who have recovered and can donate plasma. Their counselling is under way,” said Dr Mitra. GMCH will start collecting plasma from donors in the next six-seven days. “Plasma is to be collected from recovered individuals if they are eligible to donate blood after 28 days of symptom-free period. We have very few such patients,” Dr Mitra said. The multi-centre clinical trial will be done to test how effective plasma therapy is on Covid-19 patients. At GMCH, Dr Sushant Meshram will be the chief investigator for this project. Dr Rajesh Gosavi, HOD of Medicine, and Dr Sanjay Parate, medical director of Model Blood Bank at GMCH will be the co-investigators. The trial, which will enrol 226 Covid-19 patients in intervention group, will receive plasma transfusion, and 226 Covid-19 patients in the control group, who will not receive the treatment. Currently, the trial has been approved in only patients who have moderate disease. This will be a major issue for Nagpur. “Most patients in Nagpur are either asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. We want patients with moderate disease for this clinical trial,” said Dr Sushant Meshram. Nagpur currently has 140 active cases of Covid-19 but very few of them have symptoms. The ICMR criteria allows trials only on those who have moderate symptoms. The therapy cannot be tried on serious or critical patients. “Another important parameter for this is oxygen level of patient. Normal pulse oximeter readings usually range from 95 to 100 per cent. Patients having below 93% oxygen are eligible for this test,” said Dr Meshram. “Initially, we are aiming to start with 10 patients in control group and 10 in intervention group. But it all depends upon eligible patients we receive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-nagpur-part-of-national-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/75587496.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||24 hrs notice to pvt hospitals before taking over for Covid-19 treatment: NMC tells HC||Nagpur: In a respite to private hospitals to be taken over for treating Covid-19 patients, the civic body informed Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that it would issue a prior notice to the hospitals 24 hours before admitting such patients. A statement in this regard was made by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) counsel Sudhir Puranik, who informed that before implementing its notice of April 23 of using private hospitals, an advance notice would be given with a view to allow them to approach the court again. In view of his statement, justice Anil Kilor stated that currently no order was required on application filed by Dhantoli Nagrik Mandal challenging the NMC’s order of April 23. “However, liberty is granted to the petitioner to get the matter circulated whenever such occasion arises,” he said. The petitioner through counsels — Ashutosh Dharmadhikari and Ashwin Deshpande — challenged corporation’s order, particularly related to Avanti Hospital in Dhantoli contending that it was a highly congested area and many senior citizens stay there. Therefore, the possibility of spreading the deadly virus among the residents and also hospital staff couldn’t be ruled out. The petitioner contended that municipal commissioner has no authority or power to issue such orders. Denying their contentions, Puranik argued that their application was premature and unless the capacity of government and corporation hospitals are completely exhausted, the civic body is not going to use private hospital for treatment of Covid-19. ‘20 dists in state lack Covid-19 testing facilities’ Amicus curiae Anup Gilda earlier raised the issue of non-availability of facility to treat Covid-19 patients at 20 districts of Maharashtra. He raised grievance against the Public Health Department. “After going through title clause, it appears that the Public Health Department is not a party to the petition. Accordingly permission is granted to the amicus curiae to add the department as a respondent in the petition,” justice Kilor said. Assistant government pleader Deepak Thakre then sought time to take instructions from the Public Health Department to file reply, after which the hearing was adjourned till June 10. “The grievance raised in the present application is in respect of appointment of residential doctors on regular basis and not for a fixed period. Thus, the main issue is in respect of service conditions which cannot be considered in the present PIL,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-hrs-notice-to-pvt-hospitals-before-taking-over-for-covid-19-treatment-nmc-tells-hc/articleshow/75587490.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to bolster its online ops to resolve pending issues||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will bolster its online operations so that people who want to apply for lease deeds, transfer of names can do it without any hassle.During the review meeting on Wednesday, it was revealed that the citizen centre of the civic body has only issued demand notice for 37 lease deeds out of 1,756 pending cases.Similarly eight cases of lease money out of 73 and 18 cases out of 549 cases of name transfer have been resolved till date.A senior official said, “In the modified lockdown, we are trying to match with our previous pace. All the pending cases will be redressed soon,”According to sources, during the lockdown, online services are being provided through the Citizen Service Centre. To deposit lease amount, one can download online application form from the website and deposit the dues in the JDA bank account. The certificate of deposit of lease amount will be sent to the applicant online by the JDA. The exemption on depositing outstanding leases by the state government has been extended till September 30, 2020.While the JDA online system is proving to be a boon in difficult times, residents whose plots fall under the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) cannot do any such work sitting at home.Even after four years, the JMC has failed to launch its building plan approval process. At the time of inauguration, the residents were assured that they won’t have to undergo the tormenting bureaucratic processes for acquiring several licences and approvals from different departments.In fact, it was claimed that applicants won’t even have to visit a single government office as all approvals would be provided online through Smart Raj portal. However, nothing has been done till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-bolster-its-online-ops-to-resolve-pending-issues/articleshow/75587489.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Case filed for spreading rumours about CM’s health||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: Police on Wednesday registered a case against unidentified persons on charges of spreading rumours about the health of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on social media. “Some miscreants have spread shameful and immodest rumour about the CM on social media. Dehradun SSP has been directed to register a case in the matter and arrest the culprits at earliest,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order. Case has been registered under section 66 of IT Act and section 469 and 555 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Ashok Kumar. Later in the day, revenue police registered an FIR against one Narendra Singh Mehta, 24, a resident of Badgeri Nagar village of Ganai Tehsil for spreading the rumour. Pithoragarh DM Vijay Kumar Jogdande said that even though an FIR has been registered under the IT Act, the accused is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/case-filed-for-spreading-rumours-about-cms-health/articleshow/75585500.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Nearly five lakh workers sign up to go home; 368 from Nepal, B’desh||Seeking to return home at the earliest, about 4.88 migrant labourers have registered themselves with the state authorities — among them are 368 workers from Bangladesh and Nepal who are living in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi and Udupi. The state government now faces the massive task of screening, accommodating and transporting this work force to different destinations; as for workers from the neighbouring countries, it will have to coordinate with the Centre. The labourers have registered their names with police, revenue department and other officials in their districts, requesting transport facilities to return to their home towns and villages as they have no jobs or income due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, CM BS Yediyurappa appealed to migrant workers for the second time in four days, asking them to stay back and wait for work to resume. “I appeal to labourers with folded hands, don’t pay heed to any speculation. It is the responsibility of the government that you get your old jobs back. Don’t make a hasty decision to return home. Stay here and work, as you have so far,” he said. At a meeting with builders and officials, he said there was a need to restart businesses, construction and other industrial activities in the state, and, control “unnecessary travel” of workers. According to trade unions, there are around 8 lakh labourers in the state. Among those who have registered to return home, more than 2 lakh are from north Indian states. Workers from Odisha top the list — the CM has already assured his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that they would be looked after and moved safely. Bihar comes a close second. Three trains have already transported workers to Bihar while one has headed for Bhubaneswar. “We are worried about providing food and shelter to such a large number of labourers,” labour minister Shivaram Hebbar told TOI. “Once we finish the task of transporting labourers within the state, we will look into the issue of transporting labourers of other states from Karnataka. As far as labourers from Bangladesh and Nepal are concerned, the central government is looking into it. An exclusive department is handling issues related to labourers from neighbouring countries.” Secretary in the labour department P Manivannan said inter-state transportation has begun. Between May 3 and May 4, six trains headed for Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan with more than 7,100 workers. “We are collecting data of migrant labourers for future reference as well. The Centre will look after transportation of labourers from neighbouring countries.” Mahesh Pattar, state secretary for Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said Karnataka should follow the example of Telangana, Kerala and other states in sending back migrant workers by arranging for more trains. “The state should not delay this further. The Centre should intervene and expedite their journey home. The government must ensure free food, testing and transportation for the workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nearly-five-lakh-workers-sign-up-to-go-home-368-from-nepal-bdesh/articleshow/75575152.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||One more tests positive in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: A 52-year-old resident of Gazipur in Kalaburagi has been tested positive for Covid-19 and has been shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC hospital on Wednesday. Identified as P-679, he had direct contact with P-610. The total number of patients tested positive in Kalaburagi reached 64, said deputy commissioner B Sharath. Out of 64, six have died and 24 have recovered and discharged from the hospital. There are only 34 active cases now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-more-tests-positive-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75583934.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Treated like ‘untouchables’, patients recall their ordeal in Pune government hospitals||PUNE: Rude medical staffers treating patients like “untouchable”, filthy toilets and unpalatable food, coronavirus patients recall their ordeal at government-run hospitals in the city, which scared and shook them more than the disease. After finding blood in his vomit, a Kondhwa resident landed at the government hospital where he was made to wait for one hour before anybody checked on him. “I was attended to only after the people who were sitting next to me told the staffers that I looked very sick and needed urgent attention. They then did some investigations,” he said. After conducting the basic check-up, the person was told to get admitted in the hospital. “At this juncture, a nurse called out my name from at least a 100-ft distance, leaving me wondering if somebody really called out my name or was I just hallucinating. In no condition to walk due to breathlessness, I somehow managed to give my swab sample for Covid-19,” he recalled. When his test report came positive for coronavirus the next morning, he was shifted to an upper floor. With his condition worsened through the night, he was unable to even get out of his bed. Yet, at the time of shifting, he was made to walk two floors above. “When I reached the designated ward, I saw six beds kept very close to each other in a room. I didn’t have cough then, but contracted it after being shifted to the ward where other patients were coughing consistently,” he said. The patient was then asked to collect his breakfast. “I was surprised that I had to go outside my ward in another passage for breakfast. Even water was kept there. So, patients wanting to drink water had to go there and fill up their bottles,” he said, adding, “I did not even take a bath or refreshed myself at the room-attached washrooms as it was filthy and would stink badly. I did not see any anybody cleaning it either.” By the end of the day, he started throwing up blood again in his vomit. “Though I tried to tell the nurses, they did not help. They put two tablets in a paper chit and gave to me. The next morning, when I told the doctors what I had gone through the entire night, they told me that I was going to be shifted to another hospital,” he said, adding, “There was a marked difference in the facilities and treatment in the second hospital," he added. Another patient, who was admitted in Sassoon hospital, said the medical staff treated all the patients like "untouchables". A recovered patient whose 55-year-old mother is still undergoing treatment at Sassoon hospital said, "My mother keeps pleading me to take her away from the hospital. She tells me that the staffers are extremely rude. The bathroom is also very dirty and food quality extremely poor. She barely manages to eat chapati and the vegetable provided to her." Patients undergoing care at the Sassoon hospital also expressed their anger about non-cooperative class four staff. "Despite being conscious, mamas (class four staff) always put an adult diaper around me. When I asked for a pot, they refused. They even didn’t allow me to use the loo when I was healthy enough to move around," a 40-year-old Covid-19 survivor from Tadiwala Road said. A 49-year-old patient from Wanowrie said, “I had moderate symptoms of coronavirus. Though I was not intubated or on ventilator support, I was not allowed to eat food at the Sassoon hospital. They gave me parenteral nutrition through the drip. After some private doctors serving at the hospital raised their voice against it, people like me were allowed food." A nurse, who did not wish to be named, said, "In a case, doctors realized that the person was dead when they started extubating the patient. They could not take out the respiratory tube as the body had stiffened. They somehow cut the outer portion of the tube and left the remaining portion of it inside the throat." When contacted, acting dean of the Sassoon hospital Muralidhar Tambe said, “We have conducted at least two workshops with the hospital staffers on this aspect of treating the patients. I think there has been improvement in the behaviour. At the same time, I also feel that there is scope for improvement. We will surely look at it closely and see how we can give better treatment to patients." A top official of a private hospital in the city said, "We are receiving calls from patients and their relatives on daily basis that they want to shift to our hospital. These patients are already taking treatment at government hospitals. They want to shift for sheer lack of facilities, ill-treatment and uncleanliness. However, we are now allowed to take such patients unless referred by these hospitals according to the protocol."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/treated-like-untouchables-patients-recall-their-ordeal-in-govt-hospitals/articleshow/75586672.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Work on key Kumbh projects impacted due to shortage of skilled workers||Haridwar: Shortage of skilled workers is adversely impacting the pace of ongoing work for the Kumbh Mela, which is slated to be held in Haridwar early next year. After lockdown restrictions were eased, work on infrastructure-related projects for the mega festival had begun, but officials say that they are working with almost half of the required strength of skilled workers and due to this, it has become challenging to complete the works on time. Kumbh works like construction of minor bridges over Ganga in Kankhal region and construction of several roads have started. Meanwhile, Mela administration has also planned to repair the hill bypass road passing through Rajaji Tiger Reserve which will play a pivotal role in crowd management during Kumbh. The Mela administration had planned to complete the construction work before November this year but due to Covid-19 lockdown, Kumbh works were halted and now shortage of skilled workers is slowing down the pace of works. According to officials, they only have 60% of the required skilled workers. Additional Mela officer Harveer Singh told TOI, “We have started most of the construction works after getting permission and works are going on in full swing but we have limited skilled workers as most of them have returned to their native places. Nonetheless, our engineers and supervisors are working hard to sort out the issue. Meanwhile, we are hiring skilled workers from the district to complete all the works on time.” Additionally, contractors are also facing several issues in supplying raw material for works. Dharampal Singh, former district president of Contractor Welfare Association of Haridwar told TOI that there is acute shortage of crushed stone, silt, and other items. “We have no option other than buying these material at high prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-on-key-kumbh-projects-impacted-due-to-shortage-of-skilled-workers/articleshow/75585523.cms||MS Nawaz
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Book seller held for forcing parents to buy non-NCERT books||Haridwar: Education department officials in Haridwar caught a local book seller red-handed while forcing parents of school students to buy books by private publishers rather than those of NCERT as mandated by the department. After getting complaints regarding the same from parents, an officer from the education department, posing as a customer, had gone to the shop to buy books. A recommendation has been made to seal the book shop. District education officer Anand Bhardwaj told TOI, “We sent a decoy customer and found that books of private publishers are being sold to the parents. A letter has been sent to the administration for sealing the book shop.” Meanwhile, a notice has been sent to the administration of a private school in Haridwar as it was found that they were running without proper certification. A penalty of Rs 1 lakh has been imposed against the school for operating without proper documentation. Three days ago, a similar action was taken against a private school of Roorkee. Also, another private school in Roorkee that was running classing without due permission was fined Rs 1 lakh. “We have imposed Rs 1 lakh penalty on a private school in Haridwar and have sent a notice to them for further action. Earlier, we had inspected two schools of Roorkee and had sent notice to their management for violating norms,” Bhardwaj added. However, the management of the Hardiwar-based private school has denied the allegations. Amit Garg, administrative officer of the school, told TOI, “We have not got any notice so far but we are ready to face any inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/book-seller-held-for-forcing-parents-to-buy-non-ncert-books/articleshow/75585550.cms||MS Nawaz
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Payback time: Bail granted on condition of paying for damage to public property||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court granted bail to a group of people involved in an attack on power company officials in Vadodara, after they agreed to pay compensation for damage to public property, a case reminiscent of the Uttar Pradesh government’s bid to make anti-CAA protesters cough up money for damage done to public property. In this case, 21 persons were booked for rioting, attacking and causing damage to public property by Bhadarva police in Vadodara district on March 12. This happened after a team of Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL) was on checking drive and intended to take action after detecting power theft in Tundav village on the outskirts of Vadodara city. The power officials team was attacked by local persons. Their vehicles were damaged and a driver was injured in stone pelting. Police booked and arrested 21 persons. They approached the HC for bail, and offered to pay Rs 60,000 damages to the government as this was the sum mentioned in the FIR. Justice G R Udhwani last week observed, “Though the magnitude of the offence may be not serious if individually viewed; but when viewed from the standpoint of retaliation, it assumes seriousness which is not necessarily to be judged from the maximum sentence that the person charged may face ultimately; however as the gesture is shown to make good the public loss as recorded above, this court would exercise discretion with a hope however that no similar acts or retaliation would be resorted to in the locality concerned henceforth.” In another case, accused from Thangadh in Surendranagar district got bail from the HC on condition that they foot the medical bills of those injured in violence. Suresh Mavania and others were booked for rioting and under the Arms Act. A few persons were injured in this case of rioting. Justice R P Dholariya said, “…without discussing the evidence in detail, prima facie, this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit case to exercise discretion and enlarge the applicants on regular bail on condition that the applicants shall deposit jointly and severally Rs 1 lakh as medical compensation to the victim(s) before the learned trial court within a period of two months from today. Upon deposition of the said amount, the learned trial court shall disburse it to the victim(s) by account payee cheques after due identification and verification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/payback-time-bail-granted-on-condition-of-paying-for-damage-to-public-property/articleshow/75586646.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Submit proof citizens not getting food grains without ration cards: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has asked the petitioner to provide proof of citizens who’re not being provided food grains without having ration cards. The HC granted time till May 12 to the petitioner, Grahak Panchayat, to respond to this query on an affidavit.The petitioner had said thousands of migrants are stranded in the entire district due to coronavirus outbreak. As a majority of them don’t possess ration cards, they were denied essential items at the ration shops across the city. The petitioner prayed for providing ration for them for their survival on the basis of their Aadhaar cards.In the last hearing, the HC issued notices to respondents, including the state government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), asking them to reply to the petitioner’s contentions.NMC in its reply through counsel Sudhir Puranik informed the court that it was providing two-time food and breakfast to over 2.5 lakh migrants at various shelter homes. This massive exercise is being conducted with the help of various NGOs in its different zones. The government was providing entire ration for all these stranded migrants under its various schemes, it said.NMC also informed that it was providing kits with food grains and other items to other migrants who’re not at shelter homes, and didn’t possess ration cards. It added that no complaint has been received so far from any of the migrants about not getting food grains.While expressing satisfaction on efforts of corporation and government, the court directed the petitioner to submit proof that people are not getting ration or food without ration cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-proof-citizens-not-getting-food-grains-without-ration-cards-hc/articleshow/75587507.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||22-yr-old from Parvati Ngr tests +ve after death||Nagpur: Samples of a 22-year-old youth from Parvati Nagar in Ajni, who died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday, tested Covid positive on Wednesday. Incidentally, the deceased is the youngest casualty of the coronavirus in Vidarbha till date. The area may turn out to be city’s third coronavirus hotspot as the deceased, a football player, had a large number of contacts apart from having around 40 persons in the family. Many from the locality reportedly met the bereaved family for mourning the loss between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning. The positive status of the deceased would not have been known had one staffer from GMCH mortuary not suggested the relatives get Covid-19 test done. “The body was kept in the mortuary and the GMCH administration had handed over hospital death report to us. We could have taken the body for funeral. But a staffer suggested to get test for Covid-19 done and we asked for testing,” said a relative. Covid-19 guidelines clearly state that in case of suspected death, the body should not be handed over to relatives till reports of Covid-19 tests are received. With the latest casualty, the number of Covid-19 deaths has increased to three in the district, all from the city. Latest deceased is second case in which positive report came after death, the first being from Satranjipura. Mominpura man had died during treatment at Covid-19 isolation ward of IGGMCH. Youth from Parvati Nagar is first among the three deceased whose samples for Covid-19 testing were reportedly taken after death. Probably a patient of schizophrenia and hypertension, the youth passed away at around 11.30am on Tuesday. His samples tested positive at around 9am on Wednesday. At 1.30pm, the NMC arranged funeral at Mokshadham as per Covid-19 guidelines. NMC team led by additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar and team are investigating the case. One of the relatives said, “The youth was having health issues for the last four days. Blood test indicated his platelets count had gone down to a great extent. He had severe cough. Three from our family took him to a private hospital in Rameshwari, where the doctor advised to take him to GMCH. He died at GMCH.” The NMC has notified Parvati Nagar, half of Ajni Railway Colony and adjoining areas, as containment zone. Around 40 family members and 111 close contacts were quarantined and will be tested. The NMC will trace all close contacts and quarantine them from Thursday onwards. One of the residents of Parvati Nagar said, “BJP leaders used to cook and distribute food to needy people near the deceased’s house. A large number of people from many areas used to come to Parvati Nagar.” In case of Satranjipura deceased, a large number of people had met the family members and later 103 positive cases were detected from the area. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, in a press release, said, “People should be cautious to protect themselves and also prevent spread of Covid-19. Neighbours and others should wait till reports of suspected deaths come out before making a condolence visit to the bereaved family. Only in case of negative report that people, maximum up to 20, should visit the family.” Mundhe said, “We have time and again requested people to come forward and inform us about anyone having symptoms, but that is not being followed. It is very necessary for containing Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/22-yr-old-from-parvati-ngr-tests-ve-after-death/articleshow/75587512.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||Workers who return to Nainital to be quarantined for 2 weeks||Nainital: As migrants workers stranded across the country start coming back to their homes in Nainital, the district administration has announced that it will paste quarantine slips on the walls of their house and they will be sent to mandatory quarantine for two weeks. The administration further said that the health department will maintain a strict vigil on them and their neighbours have been asked to inform the police and control room if the workers violate the quarantine orders. “The City Response Teams (CRT) and Village Response Teams (VRT) have been tasked with maintaining a strict vigil on all those who come from outside the district, especially from the red zone areas. These teams will also interact with the neighbours of these workers and gram pradhans of their respective villages as they have also been asked to inform the police and the control room if anyone violates the quarantine rules,” said Naintial district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal in a press statement. The administration has also said that if people violate the quarantine rules, they will be shifted from their homes and taken to institutional quarantine. “No person coming from outside the state will enter the district without proper health screening. We have also said that an FIR will be filed against those who do not follow these norms,” DM Bansal added. Notably, hundreds of people have returned to Nainital in the past two days. While the administration is yet to compile a data on the movement of the people, the CRT and VRTs have been directed to formulate a comprehensive list of the people who have come to the district in the past few days. “Data will be compiled and shared with all the relevant authorities so that a proper strategy can be formulated to check the spread of coronavirus as the migration of people has increased the probability of its spread,” the administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/workers-who-return-to-nainital-to-be-quarantined-for-2-weeks/articleshow/75585532.cms||Prashant Jha
May 7, 2020||Pune||7am-7pm timing for shops, fuel pumps in Pune's non-containment areas||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued a fresh order on Wednesday, reiterating the 7am to 7pm timing for shops selling essential items, while another order from district collector Naval Kishore Ram permitted the sale of petrol and diesel over the same time period to common citizens without the need for a pass/identity card. However, citizens and traders were apprehensive whether the police would allow shops to operate for the full 12 hours and whether they would continue with their insistence on digital travel passes. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham did not respond to repeated calls and text messages by TOI on the subject of travel passes. Important orders by Municipal Commissioner and also Collector for information plField staff has been intimated… https://t.co/J0mNHuNmah— CP Pune City (@CPPuneCity) 1588777096000On the other hand, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi was clear about the orders. “People can buy essentials and fill fuel from 7am to 7pm. Thereafter, only vehicles for emergency vehicles can ply,” he said. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, however, posted copies of the orders by Gaikwad and Ram on his official twitter handle, @CPPuneCity, which read, “Important orders by municipal commissioner and also collector for information pl. Field staff has been intimated accordingly. Reqst social distance and personal hygiene measures.” The PCMC administration is issuing vehicle passes for movement in non-containment zones, Bishnoi said. “Such passes will be issued by the police stations for areas located outside the PCMC limits,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) Sudhir Hiremath said action was being taken against people stepping out of their homes without reason. “We have been impounding their vehicles and also filing cases against them,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Pune city police took action against vehicles moving without a valid pass in the non-containment zones. They impounded 1,577 vehicles. The police action came even after deputy CM Ajit Pawar warned the top revenue, civic and police officials against issuing confusing and contradictory orders. State home minister Anil Deshmukh told TOI, “We (state) are issuing broad guidelines to the district and civic administrations based on the same received from the central government. Issues like digital passes for vehicles need to be sorted out at the local level by the divisional commissioner, district collector, municipal commissioner and police commissioner in consultation with the district guardian minister.” Businessman Abid Sayed, who runs a workshop in Pisoli, said, “We are facing problems in commuting from NIBM road to the workshop as the police are not issuing us digital passes.” NIBM Road resident Harsh Alwani said, “There is a lot of ambiguity due to various statements made by different bureaucrats and politicians. The police are still fining vehicle users despite certain relaxations in the lockdown.” Activist Tanaji Lonkar said, “If the PMC has relaxed restrictions on shopping, the police cannot insist on digital travel passes in non-containment zones. The sealed roads should be kept open for a few hours to enable people to commute. Passes should be made applicable in the containment zones.” Kondhwa resident Anish Mathew said, “I have a shop in Magarpatta, but was not allowed to go there. The police’s insistence on digital passes is unfair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7am-7pm-timing-for-shops-fuel-pumps-in-non-containment-areas/articleshow/75588117.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC ropes in 9 private doctors in Dharavi for free medical certificates||MUMBAI: Following numerous complaints that migrants stranded in Dharavi are being asked to shell out Rs 150 to Rs 200 for all-clear medical certificates required to travel back to their home states, the BMC has come up with an intiative to ensure they get the critical documents for free. On Wednesday, the civic body began to pay nine private dispensaries in Dharavi for issuing medical certificates without charge to migrants. A sizeable number of Dharavi’s population of about 10 lakh comprises migrant labourers. BMC officials said earlier this week they learned that many of the migrants were being asked to pay for medical certificates by private practitioners. The doctors told BMC officials that they charge migrants fees as they lose out on treating several other patients. BMC’s G-North Ward office, which includes Dharavi, thus decided to tie up with a few private practitioners and pay them Rs 5,000 per day for issuing these certificates for free. “We even plan to hold camps for these migrants at an open ground in the area where private practitioners would be roped in and asked to examine them and issue medical certificates. We will provide the private practitioners with personal protective equipment (PPE), infra-red therometers, masks and gloves,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North Ward. Over the past weekend, the BMC had directed all medical colleges, peripheral hospitals, municipal dispensaries and registered medical practitioners in the city to issue certificates to migrants after taking down their medical history and examining them for influenza-like symptoms if they wish to travel. Ward level officers, though, had recently complained that due to the rush at municipal dispensaries, migrants were crowding outside clinics of private practitioners who charge fees. The senior civic administration thereafter directed them to tie with private practitioners, wherever required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-ropes-in-9-pvt-doctors-in-dharavi-for-free-medical-certs/articleshow/75586676.cms||Richa Pinto
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||KU professor accused of sexual harassment||Dharwad: A research student has accused a professor of sexually harassing her on the premises of Dharwad Institute of Mental Health And Neurosciences (Dimhans). The student of Dimhans is deployed at the Covid-19 lab at the institute. She has complained to the vice-chancellor of Karnatak University (KU) as the accused is an employee of the varsity and is now on deputation at Dimhans. She has also filed a complaint with Dimhans. KU has sought action from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) which supervises Dimhans, where the alleged incident took place. Acting vice-chancellor of KU T M Bhaskar said the health department is inquiring into the issue and based on the report, further action would be initiated by the university. KIMS is under the supervision of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ku-professor-accused-of-sexual-harassment/articleshow/75580767.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Recovery rate up, five in 10 patients discharged||Bhopal: In a major relief, in the last fortnight recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the state capital increased from one in ten to five in ten. In effect, 50% of cases that were diagnosed with COVID-19 have recovered in Bhopal, going by health department data. On April 22, the number of positive cases in Bhopal were 303 while the number of recoveries were 33. Nearly 11% of those who had been diagnosed with the infection had recovered. In about a fortnight, from one in 10 the recoveries went up to five out of every 10. As of Wednesday, there were 571 cases and 288 recoveries. “There are two sides to the spurt in recovery rate in Bhopal. Most of the cases that were diagnosed as positive were tests done on contact tracing. This took place in the first wave of COVID-19 spread in Bhopal. Since the tracing was early, diagnoses and medical treatment was early too,” explained Gandhi Medical College (GMC) pulmonologist, Dr Parag Sharma. “The medical and surveillance for COVID-19 in Bhopal is better than most places. The number of tests have also been significantly high. Bhopal has four laboratories for testing of COVID-19. Amidst all this, it is vital to maintain social distancing to curb the spread of infection,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Soon after positive cases were reported in the city, the district was directed to work on cluster containment plans. Besides containment, to break the chain of transmission, focus needs to be on contact tracing, monitoring and clinical management. Ward and zonal level functionaries were asked to uniformly implement the containment plan in location. *** Low testing in MP With increase in recovery rate across the state, NGO Jan Swasth Abhiyan has demanded steps to increase testing laboratories in MP. Given that almost one and half month have passed since the first case was found and the number of positive cases constantly increasing, the state still has only 13 testing facilities— 10 government testing labs and 3 private labs. For a state with a population of more than 8 crore and test positivity rate of 5.58 %, 13 testing labs are grossly inadequate, the NGO said. The number of testing labs in MP are lesser compared to other badly hit states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan. BOX…. TEST FACILITIES Maharashtra 45Gujarat 20 Delhi 23 Rajasthan 19 Madhya Pradesh 13||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recovery-rate-up-five-in-10-patients-discharged/articleshow/75586699.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Truck transporting migrants to UP seized||Vijayawada: Police seized a container truck for illegally transporting 62 migrant workers at Pondugala checkpost under Dachepalli mandal in Guntur district on Wednesday. According to Dachepalli police, they received a tip off and stopped the vehicle at the checkpost and verified the container to find several workers from Uttar Pradesh sitting inside under congested conditions. All 62 migrant workers were heading towards Lucknow from where they would then disperse to their respective villages in the state. Chinni Krishna, deputy superintendent of police, said that all of them work in the district on a seasonal basis at farmlands and other hard labour. The DSP said that the empty container truck bearing a Rajasthan registration RJ 11 GB 5439 was heading towards that direction and the daily wager hired it by paying a bulk amount together. Cops also noted that some workers were in an inebriated state and were detained at the spot and further action would be taken based on government orders. This is not the first time the cops have intercepted a vehicle illegally transporting migrants at Pondugala inter-state checkpost. On April 20, police were in for a shock after detaining three students during an inspection. The three were found hiding in a milk van. They were planning to go to Singarayakonda in Prakasam from Miryalaguda in Telangana. In some cases, the workers were found taking a risky path of crossing railway bridges, hiring boat operators to reach Suryapet and Nalgonda through Krishna river waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/truck-transporting-migrants-to-up-seized/articleshow/75585533.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||JMC delivers over 2.5L ration packets so far||Jaipur: With thousands of people being rendered jobless and have no means to arrange two square meals a day, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has been given the charge of door-to-door distribution of ration in the city.The JMC is receiving around 5,000 calls every day requesting for food and ration. According to officials, they have distributed around 2.5 lakh ration packets in the city so far. They are getting calls from all over the city and ration is being supplied after verification.JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “Whenever we receive calls, we have to verify with our zonal commissioners if that person has already been supplied with ration. After verification, it is supplied to the people on their door-step.”Till now, JMC has received more than 50,000 calls on their call centre at the headquarters. Requests are being resolved every day. Each ration packet includes 5kg wheat, 3kg rice, salt, cooking oil, sugar and other necessary items. Officials, however, keep in mind of not announcing the name of the area where the ration is to be delivered as many times people break social distancing rules to collect ration.Last month, while delivering ration on the door-step at Jhalana Doongri slum, hundreds of people gathered breaking the lockdown. JMC officials went to deliver 4,000 packets that day, but amid chaos just 50 packets were distributed and they were forced to return.Similar incidents occurred in Ramganj area when crowd gathered in the area. Police had to use strict measures to keep the crowd in control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-delivers-over-2-5l-ration-packets-so-far/articleshow/75587513.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five more swab collection hubs in vulnerable wards||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started five more swab collection centres in civic wards most affected by coronavirus. These wards are in Bhavani Peth, Dhole Patil road, Shivajinagar-Ghole road, Vishrambaug-Kasba peth and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, where collectively over 70% of Covid-19 cases have been reported so far. All these areas have now got one additional centre each for swab collection. With the addition of new swab collection centres, the civic authorities are hoping to push the daily swab collection and testing beyond 1,000. “New centres have come up in schools. Two health officials have been appointed at each centre. The centres will function throughout the day. The samples will be sent to the Naidu hospital. Presently, about 7 centres are operational in the city in various areas,” the officials added. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are putting concentrated efforts in the most affected areas. Starting of additional swab collection centres is part of various steps planned for the containment zones,” she said. About 30 PMC-run schools and 10 marriage halls from containment zones have been identified in the first phase where patients, whose swab reports are awaited, can stay. An official said, “We have identified 140 schools and 40 marriage halls which can be utilised as centres for institutional quarantine or waiting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-more-swab-collection-hubs-in-vulnerable-wards/articleshow/75586683.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 7, 2020||Nashik||District gets 116 positive cases in just over 24 hours||Nashik: The district recorded highest spike in Covid-19 cases in 24 hours — between Tuesday and Wednesday evening — wherein as many as 116 people tested positive for the respiratory disease. Of these, 92 people are from Malegaon alone, while 23 belong to rural areas. Nashik city recorded three cases. With this the total number of cases in the district has reached 499 — including 414 from Malegaon. Yeola taluka, home turf of district guardian minister Chagan Bhujbal, is the worst affected after Malegaon with 25 positive Covid-19 cases. Of these 16 people were tested positive on Tuesday night. "At 11, the number of medical staff contracting this disease in Yeola is also significant," a senior district administration official said. Deolali, that houses School of Artillery, was also struck by seven positive cases on Tuesday night. Other than these, Dabhadi village near Malegaon Corporation is also witnessing rise in number of Covid-19 patients. "There are currently nine positive cases in Dabhadi which is on the outskirts of the city and part of the Malegaon taluka. All these patients are being treated at Covid facilities in Malegaon," the official said, adding that the number of containment zones in Malegaon has now reached 52. "There have been new containment zones in Malegaon recently owing to addition of the cases from outside the Malegaon corporation as the infection is rapidly spreading in the rural areas," the official said. In Nashik city, the three who tested positive included the 20-year-old pregnant woman who died on May 2. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Wednesday sealed two areas where the other two patients lived and declared it as containment zone. With these three fresh cases, the numbers of Covid-19 positive in the city has reached 21. Meanwhile, with the Covid-19 testing facility in Nashik being overloaded, the administration is now considering to send the throat swab samples to Pune, Aurangabad and Mumbai — on rotational basis. The city city has one testing facility at Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre where 80 samples can be tested in one shift. "There is heavy load of samples in the district and hence we have sought permissions from laboratories in all three cities and they have agreed to test the samples. The process of sending the samples will start soon," an official from the civil hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-gets-116-positive-cases-in-just-over-24-hours/articleshow/75585591.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 7, 2020||Nashik||8 tankers supply drinking water in Peth taluka||Nashik: With mercury rising and demand for water picking up, the district administration has acquired as many as eight tankers to supply drinking water in the villages of Peth taluka. "We have pressed these tankers into service to supply drinking water to people in six villages and two hamlets. The administration has also acquired 11 wells for getting water," a senior district administration official said. "The demand for water was made not only by the villagers but also by the block development officer. After verifying the facts, the supply of water through tankers was started," he added. Of the eight tankers acquired, three belong to the government while the remaining five are from private contractors. The official added that demand for water supply via tankers is also being made in Yeola taluka and reports have been sought to take a call whether to press more tankers into service. "The block development office has placed the demand for tankers in various villages and the same is being verified by the offices concerned. It is a routine process and once it is done, the tankers will start supplying water," he said. The district as on Wednesday has 26,248 million cubic feet (mfct) of water — 40% of its capacity of 65,814 mcft — across 24 major and medium dams. The water available for Nashik city through Gangapur Dam Complex is 4,314 mcft (40 percent) as against 26% available during the same time last year. The water in Godavari valley that provides water to parts of Nashik, Aurangabad and Ahmednagar districts is around 41% (16,861 mcft). Similarly, water in Girna valley stands at 38% (9,387 mcft) and it provides water to parts of Nashik and Jalgaon districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-tankers-supply-drinking-water-in-peth-taluka/articleshow/75585580.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||20 teams formed for health survey in Jalinagar||DAVANAGERE: As many as 39 Covid-19 cases were reported within a week up to Wednesday from Davanagere city alone, excluding three fatalities and two recoveries. Most of the positive cases reported had contracted the virus from P- 533, a 35-year old female nurse from Bhasha Nagar and P-556, a 69-year-old man from Jalinagar in Davanagere, including the three deceased individuals. On Wednesday, DC Mahantesh Bilagi, SP Hanumantharaya along with some senior officials visited the containment zones and monitored the situation. In a bid to check the health status of all people living in these thickly populated containment zones, 20 medical teams were formed on Wednesday to conduct door to door health survey. The survey will be conducted in Jalinagar on priority basis. To prevent any untoward incident, DC and SP will monitor the survey through ‘drone cameras’, said SP Hanumantharaya. All the main entrance points into Davanagere city were sealed, while the shops were asked to function from 7 am to 1 pm only, the SP added. Hundreds of throat swabs of suspected patients were sent for medical examination and their reports are awaited. Besides, more than 800 people have been kept in quarantine at district hospital, private hospitals, private lodges besides in their homes, the DC said. “We will trace the source of the infection that has spurted from Jalinagar and Bhashnagar,” said the DC. Both DC and SP appealed the public to cooperate with the district administration for another 20 days to curb the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/20-teams-formed-for-health-survey-in-jalinagar/articleshow/75584011.cms||S A GANGARAJU
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Vacate bldg, says landlord to recovered Covid patient||Tirupati: In spite of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s appeal to the public to not shun Covid-19 patients, a patient who recovered and returned home in Srikalahasti was asked by her landlord to vacate the rented accommodation immediately. The woman who is employed at the tehsildar’s office, received a call from the landlord upon returning home. “When I was entering my house, my landlord called me over the phone and asked me to stay somewhere else for the time being and vacate the building after I find a suitable accommodation. It is surprising how people can be so inhumane. I immediately vacated the house and shifted into a smaller accommodation with the help of the tehsildar,” the woman said. Srikalahasti tehsildar SK Zareena told reporters that after the eviction call was brought to their notice, “we helped her move into an alternative accommodation as she continues to remain under home quarantine.” Meanwhile, another patient who works at the police department was discharged and returned home to Bhaskarapeta in Srikalahasti to a rousing welcome on Tuesday. It may be recalled that of the 11 positive Covid-19 cases reported in Srikalahasti on April 19, eight were government employees who contracted the virus while on duty. Two patients who registered a complete recovery were discharged late on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vacate-bldg-says-landlord-to-recovered-covid-patient/articleshow/75585589.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||1.64 lakh stranded locals register at Uttarakhand government’s site for home return||DEHRADUN: More than 1.64 lakh state residents who are stranded in different places of the country have registered on the Uttarakhand government’s website for their return home. According to official data, the highest number of registrations — over 46,000 — have been recorded from Delhi, followed by Haryana (22,000), Maharashtra (18,000), Punjab (3,000), and Madhya Pradesh (1,900). The state government is working out a strategy to rescue all the stranded locals from across the country but no deadline has been set as of yet to accomplish the task. Meanwhile, those stranded in other states are finding it difficult to survive as most of them have been out of work. Shaukeen Singh, who works at a restaurant in New Delhi’s Connaught Place told TOI, “The owner of the restaurant has not paid salaries for the month of February and March. I have become helpless and want to return to my home in Pauri Garhwal.” Another state resident Ramesh Singh, native of Champawat district, who is stranded in Chennai, told TOI, “More than 200 workers from Uttarakhand are stranded in Chennai. All of us are facing shortage of ration and money. Surviving in a big city without job and money for so long is very difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-64l-stranded-locals-register-at-state-govts-site-for-home-return/articleshow/75585578.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Girl held with beer above allowed limit||Police on Wedesnday arrested a 19-year-old girl carrying 24 bottles of beer in Ajmer, which is more than the legal limit for a person to carry. Police said during checking, a girl riding a scooter was asked to stop. Whe police searched her vehicle, they found two cartons of beer. Police said carrying 24 bottles of beer was not allowed by a single person. Police said they were investigating whether she was carrying the beer for personal use or to sell them illegally with a high price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-held-with-beer-above-allowed-limit/articleshow/75587530.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||696 patients treated via mobile OPD units in city||Jaipur: In all, 696 patients were treated in the city through six mobile OPD units of the medical and health department on Wednesday.CMHO Jaipur-I Narottam Sharma said 366 men, 267 women and 63 children were treated through mobile OPD unit service at six different areas of the city.The doctors treated the patients and gave them free medicines. “Three pregnant women were examined, 84 people were found to be suffering from cough. Seven persons were treated for fever, 25 were checked for diabetes and 24 others were found to be suffering from the disease of hyper tension,” he said.Of the total, 153 were treated in Gandhi Colony, 105 in Telipada, 193 in Indira Basti, 102 in Nahargarh, 71 in Subhash chowk, 72 patients in Idgah.District collector Joga Ram on Wednesday inaugurated the automatic sanitiser machine, which was installed at the district collectorate building. The machine will also be installed at the Secretariat and state Assembly this week. The automatic sanitizer machine at the collectorate will be used by the staff, employees, and all those who come to Collector’s office to apply for passes and other work.The machine can sanitise 2500 times if it is filled once. The machine has been manufactured by a Jaipur-based private company named E Fox. The machine was installed at the collectorate free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/696-patients-treated-via-mobile-opd-units-in-city/articleshow/75587533.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||PMC to redevelop slums in core areas||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to redevelop slums in core city areas to decongest these locations and reduce the population density. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will execute the slum rehabilitation projects instead of giving them to private builders. The slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) will carry out the redevelopment of the slums at the same location. The PMC has around 25 SRA schemes across the city. “We have drafted a special action plan for the redevelopment of slums as part of the Covid-19 mitigation plan, which include projects to be executed in association with the PMC,” Rajendra Nimbalkar, chief executive officer of SRA, said. The maximum number of Covid-19 patients and deaths have been from slums and densely populated areas. The slums are located in the heart of the city and Peth areas including Bhavani Peth, Kasewadi, Harkanagar and slums in Parvati, Yerawada. “The slums are proving to be the epicentres of the outbreak in the city. Poor infrastructure and congestion, usage of common toilets are also reasons behind the increasing number of positive cases in these pockets,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.  PMC’s data shows that slums are an integral part of the city’s habitat. Over 40% of the citizens — nearly 11 lakh people — live in these slums. The civic administration is also looking at using the existing schemes as shelters. Nearly 700 flats will be used to shift slum dwellers who are not able to follow social distancing norms in their slum pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-redevelop-slums-in-core-areas/articleshow/75586708.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||A feel of spring in summertime||Bhubaneswar: By every measure, the pandemic has changed how we would have enjoyed the summer. The joy of a summer holiday, a perfect time to take a trip to a hill station; away from the gruelling heat, can no longer be seen. This summer is like no other. Even the summer ailments that people used to get after eating out will not bother this time. This year’s summer is different in ways more than one, with people gradually accepting new behavioural changes. In the previous years, the temperature in the state generally crossed the 40°C mark by the first week of May. But this year, there is respite, thanks to Covid-19. The weather has been quite pleasant with the temperature hovering much below the normal. Doctors said the usual spurt in summer ailments were missing. H R Biswas, director of the India Meteorological Department, Bhubaneswar centre, said, “Thunderstorm activities in the state are more than usual, which is causing rainfall and hailstorm in different parts of Odisha. It is keeping the temperature below the normal.” Biswas added, “This apart, natural variations in weather conditions occur every year. The summer of 2012 was pleasant, while it has been harsh in recent years. The difference between day and night temperatures increased owing to the significant drop in the pollution index.” At the onset of the pandemic, the government ordered the closure of all schools, which would have otherwise remained opened till May 2 — the start of the summer vacation. As a result, children have moved to e-classes. A homemaker, Supriti Mishra, said, “Every year, we visit a hill station or a cooler place once the schools are closed for the summer vacation.” “We don’t know if travelling will be normal again,” she added. Hospitals across the state have received fewer patients suffering from viral fever, common cold and cough, diarrhoea or any stomach-related ailment. “Common diseases have faded owing to a dip in the pollution level. This apart, people are being careful and maintaining hygiene. They are wearing masks and not eating outside. As a result, they are not suffering from any kind of viral and other infections. The death rate too has drastically gone down,” Dr Dhananjay Das, deputy superintendent of Capital Hospital, said. Against the daily inflow of more than 3,000 patients at the out-patient department (OPD) of Capital Hospital, the number has dropped to 500 to 600 amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/a-feel-of-spring-in-summertime/articleshow/75585592.cms||Minati Singha
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||YSRC & TRS top donation charts for regional parties||Hyderabad: Three regional parties in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh topped the country in political donations. An Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) analysis of contribution reports of regional parties for the financial year 2018-19 has revealed that YSR Congress led the charts with Rs 80 crore and the ruling TRS came second with Rs 41 crore. Naveen Patnaik’s BJD from Odisha is in third position with Rs 29 crore and Telugu Desam Party in the fourth with Rs 26 crore, according to the ADR analysis. Regional parties mostly received funding from companies and individuals based in Delhi, Telangana and Maharashtra. The report also revealed that out of 52 regional parties, 26 had defaulted in their submission of contribution reports. “YSRC, TRS, TDP and PMK saw the highest percentage increase in their income through donations in 2018-19 when compared with the previous financial year,” the ADR report said. Donations to PMK increased hugely followed by TDP at 1407%, TRS at 1148% and YSRC at 865%. The ADR report said: “Only 15 political parties submitted the donation reports to the ECI in the stipulated time period. Ten other regional parties delayed their submission by 34 to four days.” As per the Representation of Peoples Act, all political parties have to prepare a report of details of contributions in excess of Rs 20,000 to avail tax exemption. Total donations of 25 regional parties amount to around Rs 230 crore. Parties like AIADMK declared no donations in 2018-19. Only three regional parties receive around 65% of donations. Maximum donations were declared by DMK followed by PMK. Regional parties received highest amount of Rs 77 crore from Delhi followed by Rs 45 crore from Telangana and Rs 43 crore in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrc-trs-top-donation-charts-for-regional-parties/articleshow/75587425.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop held for stealing alcohol from police stn||Hyderabad: In a mysterious case, 69 bottles of whiskey stored at the Two Town police station in Karimnagar vanished recently. The alcohol bottles were seized from wine shops owners, who on the sly opened their stores during the lockdown to sell them. Suspecting it to be an insider’s job, cops cracked the case within four hours and arrested constable Arun and a driver. Later, they were sent to judicial custody. Though the theft was noticed by police brass on May 4, the incident came into public domain on Wednesday. Police authorities chanced upon the fact that the liquor stored at the station had gone missing. Cracking the case was a prestigious thing for police. According to official sources, senior officers began an investigation without letting it be known that the theft had been noticed. Making use of technology, including CCTV footage, the investigators noticed suspicious behaviour of a constable of the police station itself. During the course of the investigation, a driver who works for the police station was questioned about it and he was confronted with evidence. With him spilling the beans, the case was cracked within four hours. While police brass have remained tight-lipped about the incident as it would mar the reputation the Karimnagar police have built, it is learnt that police constable Arun and driver Rana were arrested after a case was registered against them. Departmental action would also be initiated again the constable. With the lockdown in place, the constable and the driver were reportedly smuggling out the whiskey bottles to supply them to their acquaintances. While the duo cleaned up most of the bottles, there were still some left at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-held-for-stealing-alcohol-from-police-stn/articleshow/75587200.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T govt okays odd-even system for shops in towns||Hyderabad: With chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao giving the nod for permitting shops in green and orange zones (27 districts) in rural areas and (50% shops) towns, the municipal administration department has issued guidelines, allowing these commercial establishments to function between 10am and 6pm. The government also decided to allow e-commerce in green and orange zone districts and municipalities contained therein. However, these guidelines would not be applicable in red zone districts like Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Rangareddy and Warangal Urban. Director of municipal administration department N Satyanarayana said shops would be permitted on alternate days. “It will be in a manner that first, third, fifth, seventh and so on shop will be open on Monday, Wednesday & Friday, while the second, fourth, sixth & so on shops on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. This will ensure that two adjacent shops are opened on alternate days so that only 50% of shops will be open on any given day and the other 50% the following day,” the director added. In other words, all even-numbered shops would be open on even days and odd-numbered on odd days. He said directions have been given to municipal commissioners that this method should be ensured either by using the existing numbers or give fresh numbers to shops. The government said two adjacent shops would not be allowed to remain open the same day. “Maintaining physical distance and masks for both those working at shops and customers are mandatory. A policy of ‘No mask – No goods/No service” will be followed. The shopkeepers have to provide hand sanitizers at entry and exit points,” the guidelines added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-okays-odd-even-system-for-shops-in-towns/articleshow/75587504.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Day 2: Shops go extra mile to follow norms||Nagpur: Stationery and hosiery shops took extra precaution on second day of opening up in green zones, thus ensuring social distancing norms were followed. Right from infrared thermometers to compulsory hand sanitization before payments to maintaining physical distance, shops went the extra mile to be on the safe side. In Sadar, shops created a temporary access barrier for customers by tying up ropes at the entrance so they don’t reach even to the counter. At one of the popular shops, one staff member was standing near the rope and taking orders, collecting cash and handing out packages. For some, who allowed customers up to the counter, use of hand sanitizers by customers was being encouraged. Anand Chopda, owner of Novelty Book Depot, said, “We decided to go for the additional precaution of checking body temperature as it just adds an extra layer of safety. Why take risk in such unprecedented circumstances.” The narrow bylanes of Sadar that play host to many hosiery and stationery shops, showed a small glimpse of normalcy today. Mohd Irfan, owner of hosieries store ‘Grace’ said he saw a healthy flow of customers today. “People were aware our shop was opening and I got a call from many regulars yesterday itself to confirm the same. Also, there were many walk-ins who came after seeing the shutter open,” he said. Irfan added that only two customers at a time were allowed into the shop and hand sanitizing was compulsory. “We have also cut down on staff presence, so working only with three people to avoid crowding,” he said. Construction activity was also seen in some sites in Nagpur, something that the government has allowed if workers’ accommodation is arranged for on site itself. As per NMC guidelines, stationery, hosiery shops and construstion sites can open in green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-2-shops-go-extra-mile-to-follow-norms/articleshow/75587559.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 22-year-old artist takes to streets to spread Covid-19 awareness||BHOPAL: This 22-year-old artist is using the city streets as canvas to spread awareness on coronavirus. His 3D paintings can be spotted everhwere in the city, especially in the areas which are corona-hit. The artist’s — Imran Khan — paintings urge residents to stay at home. Imran is the breadwinner of his family. He credits his interest in arts to his great grandfather, who came to Bhopal from Afghanistan and painted the inside of domes in palaces of the nawabs. A resident of Jehangirabad, Imran has made 3D paintings on the roads of Ashoka Garden, Shabban Square and Jinsi Square in Jehangirabad. Speaking on how he got this idea, he told TOI that corona-positive patients were detected in his neighbourhood — merely 10-12 houses away from his home. The area was declared a containment zone. Inspite of this, people were not following the lockdown order. Imran said that he had left school after class 7. As he is neither a cop nor a doctor, in order to make people aware, he decided to paint on the streets. On the impact his paintings are making, Imran said DIG Irshad Wali had appreciated his painting at Shabban Square in Jehangirabad and given him a reward of Rs 500. He also asked Imran to paint in Ashoka Garden. SHO of Ashoka Garden, Sudhesh Tiwari, appreciated his work and gave him a reward of Rs 1,500. Speaking about his latest painting at Jinsi Square, Imran said that he started painting around 7 pm on Tuesday and, after working the whole night, finished the painting on Wednesday morning around 9 am. He said that a single 3D painting costs him around Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. He uses exterior wall paint so that the paintings last long. Though his family of six, including parents, elder brother and two younger sisters are dependent on him financially, he believes he has to paint on the streets for a greater cause. Talking about his great grandfather Abdul Shaqoor, who migrated to Bhopal from Jalalabad in Afghanistan around 150 years ago, Imran said he had painted in the palaces of the Nawabs. He died when his grandfather was 12 years old. Imran said that nobody else in the family took interest in painting after his great grandfather’s death. But he saw his great grandfather’s designs and got interested in painting. Imran has been painting for the past 10 years and has taken it up professionally. About his next work, Imran said that now he will paint at Ret Ghat Square, at the start of VIP Road so that his paintings make the most impact on people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/22-yr-old-artist-takes-to-streets-to-spread-covid-awareness/articleshow/75586714.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Food processing unit staffer dies in accident||VADODARA: An employee of a food processing company in Gorwa BIDC estate died in a freak accident at his factory on Wednesday morning. Police said the deceased, identified as Paresh Parekh (50), died as he suffered head injury after the bold of a dryer machine broke off and hit him. “The company was conducting a maintenance test of food vacuum freeze dryer as the machine had broken down. During the test as the pressure in the dryer increased due to which the bolt of the machine broke off and hit Parekh, who was standing near the machine, on his head,” said an official from Gorwa police station. Parekh was killed on the spot. His body was sent to SSG Hospital for postmortem. Parekh, a resident of Gorwa, is survived by his wife and two daughters. He had been working with the company for the past 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/food-processing-unit-staffer-dies-in-accident/articleshow/75584045.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Education dept sets dates for UG, PG final year exams||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Wednesday announced the examination dates, publication of results and admission process for the undergraduate (UG) and post-graduate (PG) students. The examinations for the sixth semester of UG or Plus III final year will be held from June 20-July 24. The results will be declared by August 31. Higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo declared the schedule here after holding a videoconference with the vice-chancellors of the state’s public universities. Similarly, the final year PG examinations will be completed by August 20 and the results will be announced by September 20, Sahoo said. A decision has been taken to conduct the common PG entrance test around September-October. The test will be held for the first time in the state. After appearing for this test, a student will be able to get admission in any of the state universities according to his/her entrance performance and eligibility. Under the current system, a student has to submit separate application forms for respective universities and appear for multiple entrance examinations on different dates. Students felt it was hectic and tedious. The new system, however, is hassle-free and will save the students’ time. Official sources said the PG admission process would be completed by October 20 and classes might start in November. “The UG final year examinations is important because the students will appear for the common PG entrance test this year. We will complete the preparations for the examination before the colleges and universities open on June 17,” a senior official of the higher education department said. The UG admission process depends on the results of the Plus II board examinations. After the publication of the Plus II results, the admission process for Plus III first year will begin, sources said. All university vice-chancellors and principals of the autonomous colleges have been asked to open them from May 7 onwards with one-third of the total workforce for official work only. “All degree colleges, autonomous colleges and universities will inform the UG students of the sixth semester much before the examinations begin. They will also publish the detailed schedule of the examinations for PG final year (fourth semester),” Sahoo said. The vice-chancellors and higher education department officials, including secretary Saswat Mishra, discussed a blue print to strengthen the teaching and learning process that is to be conducted online. Sources said they stressed on providing the best study material to the students. “The work progress will be reviewed by the department in every 15 days,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/education-dept-sets-dates-for-ug-pg-final-year-exams/articleshow/75585613.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Drones used in Malegaon to keep check on movement of people||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have started using drones in the containment zones of Malegoan to keep a check on people trying to move out of their houses. The drones also have a public address system mounted on it through which people are appealed to stay indoor amid the lockdown. The Nashik rural police said that many police personnel have been deployed all over the textile town. In the ongoing month of Ramzan, people want to come out of the houses to buy various things. However, the police are ensuring that vegetables, fruits, etc are all provided to the people in their respective localities. There are over 50 containment zones in Malegaon, where 403 people have tested positive for Covid-19 until May 6. Further, 13 people have also died due Covid-19 in the textile town. The police are not allowing any kind of movement of people in the containment zones, following which they are using drones to keep a check on erring people. At the same time, they are also sensitising the people about the importance of staying indoor considering that a large number of people being infected. Police officials said if people stop coming out of their houses, the spread of infection can be contained. Nearly 70 police personnel and State Reserve Police Force personnel have contracted Covid-19 during the course of their duty. The police said that a large number of people are also being booked under section 188 of the IPC. With the cases of Covid-19 increasing rapidly in Malegaon, people have started adhering to the norms of the lockdown, said senior police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drones-used-in-malegaon-to-keep-check-on-movement-of-people/articleshow/75585611.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||IT sector awaits govt order on 33% workforce relaxation||Hyderabad: Despite the Telangana government allowing private offices to resume operations with 33% workforce, the IT/ITeS sector is in no mood to take a risk and hurry back to office with top executives saying they are waiting for the GO for more clarity before drawing up their back-to-office strategies. Cyient Ltd chairman BVR Mohan Reddy said the company would continue with the current arrangement as the 33% workforce relaxation is yet to be notified. HYSEA’s outgoing president Murali Bollu too said: “We will wait for the GO to see what allowances and restrictions there are around the 33% workforce. Also, night time restrictions continue so we would be interested to know if passes would be needed for those required to work night shifts.” Cyberabad Security Council general secretary Krishna Yedula said though the IT corridor does not fall under the red zone, companies are waiting for the GO, which should come tomorrow. “We expect only companies to move only only 10-15% employees, working on projects that don’t have WFH approvals from clients, in phase one over the next three to four weeks. The ramp-up to 50% will take more than a couple of months.” ADP India’s VP & head of HR and communications Vipul Singh said: “There is no hurry to get back (to work). For now, everybody will continue to work from home.” Sykes India country head Dishant Bhojwani said they have been operating at 95% WFH since March last week and plan to retain the same arrangement through mid May before reviewing the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-sector-awaits-govt-order-on-33-workforce-relaxation/articleshow/75587515.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan migrants stuck in Assam allege harassment, seek help||JAIPUR: A five-member group belonging to Kalandar nomadic tribe from Tonk district is stuck in Guwahati, Assam, for the last two days after landing in the city from another district. The group, which had gone to Nagaon district, 123 km from Guwahati, around two months ago for business, is now seeking Rajasthan government’s help to return. They also claimed that they were being harassed by locals and police in Guwahati as they want them to leave the city immediately. Mohammed Siraj (66), whose family stays at Baheer Mohalla in Tonk said, “We are totally frustrated here and want to go back home. We appeal to Rajasthan government to make some arrangements for us. Earlier, we used to entertain people with bear dance. But, it was later banned by the government. Now, we move from place to place selling herbal products like toothbrush, medicines and cream. The lockdown has ruined out business.” “We have been stranded at a bus stand near the railway station at Paltan Bazaar since Tuesday evening. We had gone to Nagaon district around two months ago. After buses started plying, the owner of the lodge (in Barabazar, Nagaon) where we had put up, asked us to leave. So, we came to Guwahati with the hope of getting some means of transport to go back to Rajasthan. Today (Wednesday), an NGO helped us arrange a place to stay here for one night. Local people and police are not allowing us to stay in Guwahati. They harass us a lot and don’t even allow us to sit on the pavement. So, where do we go? The locals here want us to go back to Nagaon,” said Siraj. “Neither do we have money, nor food to eat. We are totally helpless. Some say, it may take another 10-15 days for railway services to resume. We have no clue what to do now,” added Siraj. “The members of the NGO, who arranged a place for us to stay, said we have to return to Nagaon on Thursday. Three of us were taken to a police station in Guwahati. Even the police asked us to leave for Nagaon. The NGO representatives said they will make some arrangements for our travel back to Rajasthan in 4-5 days,” said Siraj’s companion and friend Shareek bhai, who added they also visited Mongoldoi, Goalpara districts in Assam. They also travelled to Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. ACS industry Subodh Agarwal, who heads the committee on migrants movement said, “As far as I know, we have not received any such request from Assam. Anybody who wants to come here, has to register in the place of origin and the pass has to be issued from them (Assam government). Some governments have not started the process yet. If any state has not made any request, then we may not be aware how many people are willing to come. But, we are clearing all the requests immediately.” State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “We are sending state buses everywhere to bring the migrants back. It is taking some time as there is pressure. We are making arrangements for all states, even Assam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-migrants-stuck-in-assam-allege-harassment-seek-help/articleshow/75587557.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers start walking home as govt fails to provide transport||Jaipur: Many migrants labourers from Ajmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur and other districts of Rajasthan have again started walking to their home districts in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and other states via Jaipur after not having managed to get any means of transport despite registering themselves on state government’s portal. Four migrant workers, who started walking from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, was heading towards Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh.“We started from Ahmedabad on May 1. We went to the village Sarpanch for help. He asked us to get a letter from the company in which we were working. But the company owner refused to give. They stopped giving us money, so we had to leave. Other companies paid for the month of April, but not our company,” said Prem Kishore, one among the four who had started from Ahmedabad and worked in a textile company. Shiv Lal, who came from Ajmer and was walking towards Allahabad, said “I had registered on government portal on March 22 for returning to Uttar Pradesh. But, my name turn didn’t come, so I started walking. I had asked the contractor for wages, but he refused to give saying he didn’t have money. He said he will deposit the money in my account. At least, Rs 6000-7000 is due.” Two migrant workers, Avdesh Kumar and Ram Swarup Singh, had started from Bikaner on Sunday and was going to Khagaria in Bihar. “I am a farmer. I had registered online for transportation, but nothing happened. So, we started walking on May 3. We started from Dungargarh market (in Bikaner). There are about 40 of us,” said Kumar. Another group who were in a steel company in Jodhpur was walking towards Shajapur in Uttar Pradesh and another group was walking towards Morena in Madhya Pradesh from Beawar in Ajmer. On Wednesday, two trains left from Kota for Motihari and Nalanda in Bihar with 1208 and 1200 students respectively. One left from Udaipur with 1200 migrant labourers for Hajipur in Bihar. One train arrived from Bangalore on Wednesday with around 1,300 migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-start-walking-home-as-govt-fails-to-provide-transport/articleshow/75587554.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Worker makes an excavator his home during lockdown||Pune: Golu Kumar, who moved to the city from Uttar Pradesh in search of a job, has made an excavator his home for over 45 days. Kumar drove the machine for a living and once the lockdown was announced he remained stranded near Shaniwarwada, where he had been working. Kumar was not allowed to leave the excavator so he made it his home. Now, he cooks and sleeps inside the small driver’s cabin. The owner of the machine helps Kumar with the food supplies, including vegetables and groceries, once a week. The owner has also provided him with a gas cylinder and a burner. His lunch and dinner mainly include roti and rice but some times he also makes do with onion bhajias. While Kumar was somehow trying to keep an eye on the excavator, someone stole the gas cylinder one night. “I woke up in the morning and noticed that the cylinder had been stolen. For the next two days, I had to live only on biscuits until the owner of the machine arranged for another cylinder,” said Kumar. The bonnet of the excavator turns into Kumar’s bed at night but the swarm of mosquitoes keep sleep away. While he does own a cellphone, his only means of entertainment is the radio on the phone. Kumar moved to Pune from his village Fazlipur just ten days before the lockdown was announced to stay with his uncle in Kondhwa. He would travel daily to the construction site. He could study only till class XII and then he was forced to leave his hometown in search of work. He shared, “I get paid Rs200 per day for operating the excavator that is mainly used for drainage lines.” He speaks with his mother everyday and all she says is he should return to the village safely. “I have heard that the government is sending migrants back to their villages. But if I go, then who will look after the excavator and my other belongings? So I have not filled out the form yet,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-makes-an-excavator-his-home-during-lockdown/articleshow/75586759.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||BJP leaders allege Rajasthan failed to control corona, seek governor’s intervention||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Wednesday sought the intervention of governor Kalraj Mishra on the worsening Covid-19 situation in the state. He said the head of the state government was doing nothing but indulging in political rhetoric. Massive spread of the virus especially in Jaipur and in the CM’s home city Jodhpur was testimony to the government’s failure. Besides Poonia, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and Union minister Kailash Chaudhary made these allegations during a discussion on the corona situation with Mishra during a 90-minute video conferencing. Poonia alleged that screening, testing and sampling were only being done on paper. He also claimed that curfew and lockdown were not being strictly enforced and the condition of quarantine centres was very bad. He also alleged discrimination in ration distribution. Poonia said patients suffering from non-corona diseases were at the receiving end and were not getting treatment. He urged the governor to intervene in these matters and direct the government to improve the system. Poonia urged the governor to ask the government to waive three months’ electricity and water bills, school fees and loans of farmers from state financial institutions. Kataria urged the governor to tell the government that migrant tribals and workers coming to the state be given work under MGNREGA for their livelihood. He said it is also to be ensured that 5kg of wheat and 1kg of pulses are distributed to all categories of people under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. He alleged that the state government had announced Rs 2,500 for the weaker sections, but it did not reach them. Rathore urged the governor to direct the government to withdraw the additional mandi tax which was against the interests of farmers and traders. Rathore said due to lack of effective implementation of Ayushman Bharat scheme in the state, people were facing problems. Union minister Chaudhary said till now the outbreak was in the cities, but now due to the negligence of the government, it is also reaching the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-leaders-allege-state-failed-to-control-corona-seek-guvs-intervention/articleshow/75587568.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Isolate containment areas to stop virous spread: CM||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Wednesday that special attention should be paid to isolate the ‘contaimment areas’ so that the chain of Coronavirus infection could be broken and the pandemic is contained. He further said that those found infected with the virus should be given the best treatment so that they are cured.At the same time, public awareness campaign against the pandemic should continue so that people are alert and protect themselves against deadly infection.Reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state at Mantralaya through video conferencing, Chouhan said that detailed directives for issuing passes to people from outside the state stuck in MP due to the lockdown are being given to district collectors. They should allow the stranded migrant workers to go to their home states by issuing necessary permissions.He further said that districts concerned should also make arrangements to bring back people from MP stranded elsewhere, But, this exercise should be taken only after proper screening of the stranded people.Chief minister, who in the review meeting on Tuesday, had asked officials to facilitate pilgrims stranded at places like Ujjain and Omkareshwar to return home was told that such people from Ujjain have been sent back to their native states.Chief minister reviewed the Coronavirus situation in the three districts of Burhanpur, Mandsaur and Neemuch.The chief minister asked officials to pay special attention to identification of suspects, sampling and proper treatment if he is found Coronavirus-infected.He further said in the light of COVID-19 pandemic a long-term health policy is required to be drawn urgently involving hospital management, availability of adequate number of doctors and paramedical staff and provision of ICU and casualty.Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman, informed at the meeting that a total of 3,049 Coronavirus cases have so far been detected in MP and 1,873 of them are active while 1,000 patients have been cured.He further told that there are 805 ‘containment areas’ among 35 districts of the state, covering a population of 17 lakh. Besides, 5,000 people are under home quarantine. There are 3,146 survey teams working across the state, he said.Principal secretary, medical education, Sanjay Shukla said that following arrival of new equipment in four districts, testing capacity in the state, which is currently 3,000 tests per day, will go up to 3,700 to 4,000 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/isolate-containment-areas-to-stop-virous-spread-cm/articleshow/75586722.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two killed in separate road accidents||NASHIK: Two people were killed in separate road accidents in the rural parts of the Nashik district last week. A 42-year-old man died in Surgana area on Tuesday while a 25-year-old passed away in Trimbakeshwar on Saturday. The Surgana police said that the accident took place at around 7.30 pm on Tuesday in the Galpada village road. According to a complainant Bhaskar Jopale, resident of Dindori taluka stated that his uncle Deepak Jopale (42) and his friend Tukaram Gangode had been to Surgana for some personal work. While they were passing near the Galpada village, a speeding pick-up van knocked them down at a blind turn. Jopale suffered serious head injuries in the accident and succumbed to the same. Meanwhile, Tukaram Gangode too suffered serious injuries in the accident and is admitted in a private hospital. The pick-up driver escaped from the scene without informing anyone about the accident. The Surgana police have registered an offence against the driver for causing death by negligence. In the other incident, the Trimbakeshwar police said that a 25-year-old motorcyclist died from falling from his vehicle on May 2 at Beje Phata on the Nashik-Trimbak Road. The deceased identified as Sanjay Bandu Purane, resident of Mahalaxmi Chowk in Mahadev Wadi, Satpur was on his two-wheeler going towards Satpur at around 5 pm on Saturday. While speeding, he lost control over the bike and fell down. The Trimbakeshwar police said that Purane suffered serious injuries in the accident and died. The police are further investigating the case. Despite the lockdown, many people are taking to roads in rural parts. Due to empty roads, people are speeding and meeting with accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/75585640.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Trimbak police bar 200 migrants from Palghar||Nashik: Nearly 200 migrant workers attempting to enter the Nashik district from the Palghar side were stopped at the Amboli check post by the Trimbak police on Wednesday and instructed to go back. The workers — who had started from Nalasopara and were heading towards Uttar Pradesh — were travelling in five trucks and tempos. At 11 am, these vehicles from Palghar district arrived at the Amboli checkpost manned by the Trimbakeshwar police. Inspector Ramchandra Karpe of the Trimbakeshwar police station said, the truck drivers had no permission from any authority and, therefore, were barred from crossing the Nashik district border. The workers did not argue and went back. There has been a continuous stream of workers from the Palghar side to cross over into Nashik to move further towards Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, etc. About three weeks back, a group of close to 100 workers were trying to walk into the district from the same place. However, they too were asked to return by the Trimbak police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trimbak-police-bar-200-migrants-from-palghar/articleshow/75585630.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||NWR staff donate one-day salary||Employees of the North Western Railway have donated their one-day salary to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for Covid-19. NWR General Manager Anand Prakash presented a cheque of over Rs 5.43 crore for the fund on Tuesday. Prakash informed that about 45,000 officers and employees of the North Western Railway have given their one-day salary for the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-staff-donate-one-day-salary/articleshow/75587563.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||APSCHE releases revised schedule for AP EAMCET, ICET & other exams||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) on Wednesday released the revised schedule for the common entrance test (CET). Candidates can apply online for CET till May 20. AP-EAMCET, which was earlier scheduled to be held from April 20 to 24, will now be held from July 27 to 31. AP-ICET, scheduled for April 27, has been rescheduled to July 25, while AP-ECET, scheduled for April 30, has been rescheduled to July 24. LAWCET will be held on August 6, as per the revised schedule. AP-EDCET, scheduled for May 9, has been rescheduled to August 5, while AP-PGECET will be conducted from August 2 to 4. Altogether, 2,48,096 candidates had applied for EAMCET, with 16,9137 applying for engineering and 78,959 for medical stream. B Sudheer Prem Kumar, secretary, APSCHE, said social distancing would be observed at test centres. Eamcet will be held for July 27 to 31. It was earlier scheduled to be held between April 20 to 24. Social distancing measures would be observed at all test centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revised-schedule-for-common-entrance-test/articleshow/75592048.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Inter-district portability of ration cards for NFSA beneficiaries||Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Chand Meena on Wednesday said inter-district ration card portability will be introduced conditionally to provide relief to selected beneficiaries under the National Food Security Scheme in the state, under which two transactions can be done in a day by fair price shopkeepers. After making necessary modifications in the point of sale machine, inter-district portability will be introduced from Friday. He informed necessary modifications in software of PoS machines were being made through department of information technology and communications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inter-district-portability-of-ration-cards-for-nfsa-beneficiaries/articleshow/75587570.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||One more Covid +ve case takes Jabalpur tally to 110||Jabalpur: The total number of patients in Jabalpur increased to 110 as one more new patient tested positive on Wednesday. Three deaths were also reported in Jabalpur, however, the second and third test reports of the patient who died was received after his death. The report revealed that he had tested negative for Covid-19. So, if it is excluded from the toll, a total two deaths have been reported in Jabalpur so far, said sources. Interestingly, of the 110 cases, 95 have been reported in the past 16 days, while the first four patients tested positive in the city on March 20. In one month till April 20, only 15 had tested positive. Of the total 110 patients, 15 have recovered so far and have returned to their homes. These 15 patients include all the first four patients — who were the state’s first patients to test positive for Covid-19 on March 20. These included three persons of a same family and one teenager. While the teenager had returned from Germany where he studied, the others had returned from Dubai. The patient who tested positive on Wednesday is the brother of a sanitation worker who had earlier tested positive, said sources. Reports of a total of 138 samples were received on Wednesday, and of those, only one tested positive. Meanwhile, liquor shops situated outside the containment areas opened in the district around 4 pm on Wednesday. Long queues were seen before a majority of the shops, and people stood in such a way as to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/one-more-covid-ve-case-takes-jabalpur-tally-to-110/articleshow/75586732.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha cops solemnize marriage at border for groom without travel permit||Wardha: Wardha police on Wednesday helped solemnize a marriage at the district border with Yavatmal, to facilitate a groom who had not got permission to enter the district. A cop even stood in as the bride’s ‘mama’ to complete the rituals.Among the many unique things happening during lockdown, marriage in the presence of only four people is the norm. However, this might be the first wedding at a district border.Vitthal Ahake, resident of Gharpal village of Babhulgaon tehsil of Yavatmal district, reached Wardha district border at 4am on Wednesday to proceed to his marriage venue at Ladgad village of Karanja tehsil. The police on duty asked him for the permission.Vitthal said, “I had no permission. I only had the token number, since I had applied for permission but I didn’t get it on time. Since my marriage was scheduled on Wednesday, I had to leave.”The policemen first told him to go back, but later looking at the bridegroom’s attire, they agreed to called bride to the border.Bride Pravina Maraskolhe said, “We received a call from police, and they invited us to the border. My family also agrees.” Looking the happy bride, Pravina said, “We completed our marriage with all rituals.”Police sub inspector of Pulgaon police station Pavan Bhamburkar said, “I was on duty when Vitthal and his parent reached the border at 4am. We stopped him as per protocol. He showed the token, but since Yavatmal is in red zone, I consulted with my seniors. They told me not to allow him to cross. Finally, after discussions with both parties and our department, we decided to solemnize the marriage at the border following social distancing norms.”The bridegroom’s father, Ravbaji Ahake, said he was very happy that the marriage was solemnized. I thank the police for arranging this marriage. Since an uncle (mama) was required to complete the marriage rituals, one of the policemen stepped in.The police said, “We agreed to the wedding because we found that they are very poor people. If they could not perform the marriage after spending on all arrangements, they would have suffered financial problem. Therefore, our department decided to perform the wedding at the border.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-cops-solemnize-marriage-at-border-for-groom-without-travel-permit/articleshow/75587574.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 7, 2020||Surat||Surat, Vadodara to get 2 paramilitary units each||SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Stating that the lockdown will be implemented more stringently than it was done previously, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha told reporters on Wednesday that the state has been allotted seven more paramilitary companies by the Centre. Jha said with the rate of infection rising in containment areas of Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat it was decided to deploy a majority of the paramilitary forces in these areas. “The state has been given seven more companies of paramilitary by the Centre — six BSF companies and one company of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF),” said Jha. Explaining that most of the extra force was for Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat, Jha said, “Four companies of BSF along with one company of RAF will be deployed in Ahmedabad’s containment areas.” Jha said the extra companies will mean there will now be eight companies of central paramilitary forces on top of the companies of state reserve police force, and it will be sufficient to enforce lockdown in containment areas of Ahmedabad Two companies of paramilitary forces have already been deployed in Vadodara and three companies allotted to Surat, Jha said. “Surat will now get three more companies of paramilitary forces for bandobust in containment areas,” he added. Referring to migrant workers, DGP Jha said the government is making all efforts to send them to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-vadodara-to-get-2-paramilitary-units-each/articleshow/75586741.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Help workers to go back home, Pilot tells partymen||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday held meeting with the district units of the party to facilitate migration of workers stuck in the state.The party had on Tuesday constituted a coordination committee, control rooms and helplines to facilitate their movement on the call of party president Sonia Gandhi who had instructed the party state units to bear the expenses of their travel as the central government had refused free travel on special trains.He said the migrant workers stuck at different places due to the long lockdown wanted to go home. They had a harrowing time as they were deprived of their income and the security of their home. It is the duty of Congress party to facilitate their travel.Party leaders apprised the party president of the difficulties faced by them and Pilot assured that the party will overcome the hurdles with the cooperation of all. He directed the party workers to coordinate with the control room set up in each district and provide help to the migrant workers. He had also released a Google form link to collect the details of the migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/help-workers-to-go-back-home-pilot-tells-partymen/articleshow/75587566.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Buddha Purnima events go online this year||Hubballi: This year, the followers of Gautama Buddha are forced to celebrate Buddha Purnima online. Various social media tools like Facebook live will be used to celebrate the birth anniversary of Buddha on Thursday. The participants will include actors, students, homemakers, businessmen and people from various walks of life. Basavaraj Sulibhavi, a publisher and key organiser of a Facebook live event, said: “We cannot hold a social event during this health crisis. So, we decided to hold the FB live event in which 24 persons will read portions of ‘Buddha Charita’, authored by gynaecologist Dr Anupama H S.” Film and TV series director B Suresh will be among those to read “Buddha Charita”. “We are hoping to reach out to a minimum of 2,000 people through this live programme. The impact of such live programmes will last longer as they get recorded in the public domain like FB and YouTube,” he said, adding that the session will start at 10am and conclude at 2.15pm on Facebook. Actor-turned-activist Chetan Ahimsa will inaugurate #PrabuddhaLive2020, a reading session of the Kannada version of the book “Buddha and his Dhamma”, authored by B R Ambedkar, at 8am on Facebook. “As many as 24 topics will be read by 24 people in 10-15 minutes each. It will conclude at 8pm with the valedictory note of Purushottama Bilimale, professor of Kannada, JNU,” said organisers Harshakumar Kugve and Vikas Mourya. The conveners of “naanu gauri”, a Facebook page will organise a webinar on “Karnatakada Gurupanthagalu” by thinker Rahamath Tarikere from 11am to 1pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/buddha-purnima-events-go-online-this-year/articleshow/75584084.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Power bills in line with new tariff policy, says energy secretary||VIJAYAWADA: Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant on Wednesday denied reports of ‘overpriced’ electricity bills. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Srikant said rumours have been circulating that electricity bills generated for March and April overcharged customers. Explaining the method adopted by AP Transco to generate bills, Srikant said though the weighted average consumption of power for March and April in the last five years was at a 46:54 ratio, they have generated the bills at a 50:50 ratio so as not to burden consumers with the dynamic tariff policy that came into force from April. “According to the new tariff policy, electricity slabs will be changed in line with the consumption. If the bill for April was calculated based on past consumption data with 54%, many consumers would have fallen into the higher slab rates and the bills would have been more. But to avoid burden on consumers we have distributed the consumption equally for March and April. While the bills for March were calculated according to previous tariffs, bills for April were generated according to new tariff order,” said Srikant. The energy secretary said domestic power consumption had increased by 15% since the imposition of the lockdown. He added that though consumption was higher in April, discoms did not pass on the burden on to consumers and bills were generated with actual metre readings for March and April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/power-bills-in-line-with-new-tariff-policy-says-energy-secy/articleshow/75585668.cms||---
May 7, 2020||India||Stop ‘specific groups’ from violating curbs, Bengal told||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: In a stern warning to West Bengal on Wednesday, the Centre asked the state chief secretary to ensure that lockdown measures were strictly implemented as its two teams had found “specific groups in specific localities” of Kolkata and Howrah violating the lockdown. Uncontrolled crowding of markets and free movement of people in large numbers, many playing cricket and football, were some of the instances pointed out in a communication to the state. In a letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said there was very little testing of people in the state in proportion to the population and a very high level of mortality at 13%, the highest for any state. “Lockdown violations have been noted in the cities of Kolkata and Howrah by specific groups in specific localities with reports of corona warriors, including the police, being attacked,” Bhalla said. He asked the chief secretary to ensure stricter enforcement of the lockdown by enhancing police presence. Instances of problems faced due to ostracism of healthcare staff and lack of quarantine facilities were also worrying, Bhalla added. The letter said central teams observed free movement of people in large numbers without masks, bathing in rivers and playing cricket and football in containment zones. The Centre had deputed two Inter-ministerial Central teams to Bengal since April 20. These teams extensively toured seven districts in the state. The state has not furnished any data regarding the number of households and individuals contacted and surveyed for signs of Covid-19 symptoms so far. On Tuesday, the Centre added 72 more to Bengal’s toll that the state had earlier termed as deaths due to co-morbidities. The state, however, maintained that the 72 victims had co-morbidities and died “with the virus but not of the virus”. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said ASHA workers had held a survey on six crore households to identify people having fever, cough and breathing distress. State education minister Partha Chatterjee said the Centre should come to the state’s aid and not just find fault with each and everything the state does.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-specific-groups-from-violating-curbs-bengal-told/articleshow/75588888.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Business||Hit by Covid-19, corp queries for biz interruption cover hit roof||Hyderabad: Hit by the lockdown, many corporates across sectors are making a virtual beeline for insurance companies to enquire if they can be offered respite under the business interruption cover, confirmed insurers. While the existing business interruption cover does not cover Covid-19, this situation has opened up possibilities for insurers to include such scenarios in future polices, they added. “Faced with an unprecedented situation where most businesses are shut due to the pandemic, more and more companies are enquiring about the availability of business interruption coverage that can cover them against pandemics in future. If demand is robust and sustained, once insurers are able to size up the economic impact of this pandemic, insurance for pandemics covering clean up and containment costs, the regular standing charges of a business, and even loss of profit, would become available,” Sushant Sarin, executive vice-president and head of reinsurance, Tata AIG General Company Limited, said. According to insurers, it is mainly players from manufacturing and travel and hospitality sectors that are enquiring about such policies. CR Mohan, senior V-P and national head, property and risk engineering services, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, pointed out that the provision of business interruption policy is generally sold along with fire insurance or property insurance cover in India, but only 0.1% of the total fire-policy holders have availed business interruption policies so far, leaving a huge scope for insurers to tap this market. “It is mainly large and medium corporates who have availed business interruption cover. In future, to offer business interruption policies covering pandemics like Coronavirus looks difficult as the costs for insurance companies would be too high. However, industry can consider creating a pool to deal with such situations in future,” he added. Animesh Das, head (product strategy) Acko Insurance pointed out that insurance industry saw a rise in queries of home insurance post Chennai floods and Uttarakhand floods because people saw value in it. Similarly, individuals as well as corporates, who are facing challenges now, would want insurance cover that can be useful in such scenarios in future and based on the demand-supply factor, these products may be launched in future but insurers will be cautious in terms of pricing, he added. While insurance regulator IRDAI has issued guidelines asking insurance companies to cover Covid-19 treatment costs under health insurance policies, it is yet to address the woes of the corporate sector. IRDAI did not offer comments on the subject at the time of going to press. City-based Sentini FloPipes managing director K Jaya said the present market scenario created by Covid-19 is unprecedented. “Presently, we have started the process of evaluating insurance for such business eventualities. We expect insurance companies to suggest and consider covering it in the classification of natural calamity and provide coverage for loss of revenue or profit,” she said. As per KPMG’s `Potential Impact of Covid-19 on Indian Economy’ report, there will be demand and hence a need for development of products focusing on ‘Loss of Business’ or ‘Loss of Revenue’ given the recent experiences. Estimating a similar business loss event would be critical and would require a focused effort and estimation on the part of insurers, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hit-by-covid-19-corp-queries-for-biz-interruption-cover-hit-roof/articleshow/75586746.cms||Swati Rathor
May 7, 2020||Nashik||100 beds of private hospital reserved for health staff, police||Nashik: The Nashik zilla parishad has reserved 100 beds at a private hospital in the city for treatment of health workers, police personnel and employees of other government departments to secure them if they get infected by Covid-19 during the course of their duty. Senior zilla parishad officials said that in the first phase, they have reserved 100 beds for personnel from the police, health and other government departments. Police personnel and health workers, who are posted at the frontline in combating Covid-19, are at the maximum risk of contracting the virus. On this backdrop, it is essential that a separate arrangement should be made available for them, the officials said. So far, over 65 policemen and the personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) deployed for lockdown duty have contracted Covid 19 infection. In addition, at least 15 doctors and other medical staff has also contracted the virus during the course of duty. The order of reserving 100 beds of a private hospital in the city was issued by chief executive officer of the zilla parishad Leena Bansod. Health officials said that in the next phase, 100 more beds would be acquired for police and health workers. Many police personnel said that the decision was apt considering that the men from the police department are put in the same wards and hospitals where other Covid-19 positive patients are kept. Many police personnel said that their morale is uplifted when they realise that the government is taking care of the frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-beds-of-private-hospital-reserved-for-health-staff-police/articleshow/75585690.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||564 stranded youngsters sent back to TN||Yavatmal: Finally, the 564 stranded youngsters hailing from different districts of Tamil Nadu have been sent home by special luxury buses on Tuesday late night. It is merely because of the Good Samaritan’s role played by the Yavatmal SP M Rajkumar and his dedicated PI of Vasant Nagar police station of Pusad Pradeep Pardeshi. Talking to TOI, Rajkumar expressed satisfaction for helping the stranded youngsters who were lured to Pusad under the guise of marketing training. Rajkumar has also extended his gratitude to the TOI team for throwing light over the harrowing experiences of the innocent victims. “We examined all of them and issued health certificates. They were allowed to go back by scrupulously adhering to the norms of social distancing,” Rajkumar said, adding they had no impediments in Telengana and Andhra Pradesh. But in Karnataka, the police intercepted the vehicles on Wednesday and he had talked to his counterpart there and resolved the issue. They are now permitted to move to Tamil Nadu over 1400 kms, he added. The youths have to bear the travel expenses to the tune of Rs. 2500 each as both the Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu govts paid no heed towards their request for free transportation. However, 27 os them had no money to bear the expense and so, we clubbed them with an NGO of Pusad and it has, along with the cops, borne their expenses. “We hired 14 luxury buses. 42 boys were accommodated in each of them,” said Rajkumar, adding that buses were arranged according to their respective districts. Regarding the Hingoli's 700 stranded guys, they ran off up to the National Highway in small groups and from there they managed to catch empty trucks plying on National highway towards Tamil Nadu. Almost all of them have left by now, said Rajkumar. He had a number of calls from Miraj (Sangli district) where 610 Tamil boys are stranded and they too want to go back home. "I have contacted the District Administration there and requested them to do the needful to transport the boys from Miraj. I was told that they would allow the boys to be dropped in Selam of Tamil Nadu. But the boys are reluctant to accept the condition and hence they are still stranded in Miraj," Rajkumar said, adding that a suitable solution would be found out soon. Surprisingly, the Delhi based Glaze Trading India Company Pvt Ltd has cunningly skid their responsibilities by giving false clarification to the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/564-stranded-youngsters-sent-back-to-tn/articleshow/75587580.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||More stns, trains sanitised across T||Hyderabad: With South Central Railway (SCR) gearing up to run more trains from Telangana, over two dozen trains are being sanitised and parked across the state. Sources reveal that a large number of migrant workers residing in Jawahrnagar, Neredmet, LB Nagar, Uppal, Ramanthpur, Vanasthalipuram, and Meerpet in the city have been surveyed and preparations are in full swing to identify better routes and safer destination stations in less crowded areas. “As many as 11 trains left the city to varying locations in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh on the wee hours on Wednesday,” informed railway officials. At the Secunderabad railway station, three trains with 24 coach capacity are ready to head out. Medical teams are available at the stations to ensure help for pregnant women, senior citizens, and for overall checkup of passengers.“Meals and water bottles are being supplied. Liquid soap is made available and minimal staff for cleaning of toilets have been accommodated onboard the trains,” said SCR officials. Heavy deployment of Railway Protection Force Government Railway Police is being done to keep a watch on the behaviour of the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-stns-trains-sanitised-across-t/articleshow/75586750.cms||Arya Sharan
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gas victims to be screened at 21 centres||BHOPAL: Dispensaries associated with the Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC), gas relief and Ayush departments will now act as screening centres for coronavirus suspects among gas victims. There are eight dispensaries acting as mini units of BMHRC, seven of the gas relief department and six of Ayush. In all, there will be 21 screening centres for the gas victims with BMHRC as their control room. CMHO, gas relief, Dr Ravi Verma, issued an order to this effect following a decision by the Gas Victim Covid management group, formed after the string of death of gas victims due to coronavirus infection. Talking to TOI, Dr Ravi Verma, said that thermal scanners, protective kits and other equipment required at the dispensaries for screening of all gas victims, who come there with any kind of complaint, have been provided. If anyone is suspected to have coronavirus infection, he/she would be sent to nearest hospital for testing or a mobile team from the gas relief department would come to the centre itself to conduct a test for the patient. He said that in all, 155 gas victims were tested for coronavirus at BMHRC and gas relief hospitals on Wednesday, the number was 245 the previous day. Meanwhile, the gas victim Covid management group has also decided that BMHRC, which is a testing centre for coronavirus patients, would preferably test the samples of gas victims. Only if it has space left after that would the samples from other hospitals be tested at BMHRC. The pulmonary centre under the gas relief department in Jinsi has also been converted into an isolation centre, where suspected coronavirus-infected gas victims would be kept till their test reports are received. Facilities for testing of suspected patients, reading his pulse and oxygen level, infusing oxygen to him — if required — would all be there,21 but once coronavirus is confirmed, he/she would be shifted to any of the Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gas-victims-to-be-screened-at-21-centres/articleshow/75586744.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Zoo authorities claim hassle-free procurement of feed even as activists seek third-party inspection||Aurangabad: City-based zoo authorities on Wednesday said that the supply of meat and grass to the animals and birds housed in the zoo has been taking place smoothly amid the lockdown. However, the animal experts sought a third-party inspection of the supply as many other zoos in the country are facing difficulties procuring food for the animals. Zoo director B S Naikwade said the feed suppliers have been given official passes to have hassle-free movement of vehicles carrying meat and grass. “We have not faced any issue related to the availability of feed for zoo animals, so far. The supply of feed was outsourced to private firms, who are providing the feed items as per prescribed schedule,” he said. According to the authorities, local zoo daily requires around 139 kg of meat and 450 kg of green and dry grass along with 12 kg of vegetables and fruits.The zoo has 10 tigers, four crocodiles, two leopards, two jackals and one hyena among carnivorous animals along with 55 antelopes, 44 deer, five spotted deer and three Nilgai among other herbivorous animals. The zoo also houses five monkeys and a few birds.Naikwade said zoo authorities have charted out a plan to supply chicken to carnivorous animals in the zoo in case of disruption in feed supply.Animal rights activists, however, sought third-party inspection of feed being supplied to the city zoo. Animal expert Kishor Pathak said the local civic body must facilitate a visit from a third-party to oversee records related to feed supply. Pathak cited the recent example of Delhi-based zoo. “The private firms failed to supply meat to the Delhi zoo, following which authorities concerned arranged buffalo meat on their own. We wonder how the Aurangabad zoo is getting a smooth supply of feed,” he said. Pressing for third-party inspection, animal rights activists said such exercise must be carried out involving animal experts, forest department officials and veterinary officials. “The zoo authorities must share all official records with the team so that transparency and accountability prevails. Such a step is important in order to protect the health of the animals and birds in the zoo during current lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/zoo-authorities-claim-hassle-free-procurement-of-feed-even-as-activists-seek-third-party-inspection/articleshow/75601135.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Distancing breach at liquor stores||Hyderabad: Outside most wine shops, markings on the ground were made for the public to stand while waiting for their turn. As the queue surpassed the number of markings, people were seen flouting the social distancing norm. As the queue outside the wine shop increased after 9 am, police struggled to enforce social distancing. In Greenland junction, while people kept their footwear at a distance of one metre to hold their place in the queue, groups of men were seen sitting together waiting under the shade, flouting social distancing. “There is hardly any space to stand here. If I maintain distancing, people will occupy the space in between. I have been standing here since morning,” said a person standing in the queue at Somajiguda, as police enforced social distancing. “Nearly 12 policemen and officials from the excise department have been deployed in two wine shops in Greenland junction. Some people arrived at dawn. But as the rush increased, we had to shout to ensure distancing,” said a cop on duty. Tipplers failed to maintain distancing at shops in East Marredpally, forcing police to constantly make public announcements. “Everybody please maintain 6 feet of distance while standing in queue. If social distancing is not maintained, we will close the shops,” said a cop. At Sainikpuri, police were seen struggling to manage the crowd. “On an average, each centre saw a rush of at least 100 to 200 people. People were anxious standing in the scorching sun and most were worried if they keep too much distance in the queue, someone will occupy the space. But police were deployed at all wine shops to ensure norms are followed,” said DCP East zone, M Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/distancing-breach-at-liquor-stores/articleshow/75587578.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid Care Centres in rural areas to get 8,500 beds||Nashik: With the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in Nashik, the zilla parishad has decided to make provision of 8,500 beds at Covid Care Centres (CCC) in all talukas across the district. Covid Care Centres with the capacity of 100 beds have been set up in 15 talukas in the first phase. The zilla parishad has also identified buildings for the remaining 7,000 beds in the rural district. Additional district health officer of Nashik zilla parishad Dawal Salve said that the administration is making all the necessary arrangements to ensure that they are prepared to tackle Covid-19 situation if the number of cases go up. The CCCs would only treats patients who have mild symptoms of Covid-19 or those who are close contacts of Covid-19 patients. The throat swabs of these patients would be taken at the CCCs itself. If a person tests positive for Covid-19, he/she would be shifted the Dedicated Covid Care health centre for treatment. In case the condition of the patient worsens, he/she would be shifted to Dedicated Covid Hospital at the district level. Health officials said that most of the facilities are ready for use. In fact, a number of Covid-19 positive patients detected in Yeola were from the CCCs in which close contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient were kept in quarantine. Until Tuesday, there were 50 Covid-19 positive patients in rural Nashik excluding Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits. Health officials said that Asha workers as well as multi-purpose health workers are taking a lot of efforts by visiting every household in rural areas and checking if any person is facing health problems such as cold, fever or respiratory problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-care-centres-in-rural-areas-to-get-8500-beds/articleshow/75585670.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Special train carrying 578 from AP leaves for Vizag||Udaipur: A special train carrying 616 people, including 578 from Andhra Pradesh who were stranded in the headquarters of Brahma Kumaris at Mount Abu in Rajasthan, left from Abu Road station for Visakhapatnam around midnight on Tuesday. The visitors included farmers, traders and villagers from various districts of AP who had arrived at the Shantivan campus of the Brahma Kumaris on March 16 for a meditation camp. But the event, scheduled for March 20, was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Their return was scheduled for March 24 but they got stranded after train services were suspended on March 23 due to the nationwide lockdown. All passengers underwent a health screening and were cleared by a team of doctors before boarding the train, which is scheduled to reach Vizag around noon on Thursday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/special-train-carrying-578-from-ap-leaves-for-vizag/articleshow/75585727.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens unhappy with state govt’s new sand policy||Deepthi.Sanjiv@timesgroup.com Mangaluru: Karnataka government’s decision to expand sand mining that was limited to river basins and deltas to tanks, ponds and even patta lands in rural areas has left conservationists worried. Speaking to TOI, Prakash M Kanive, remote sensing and GIS analyst, representing the Namami Vrishabhavathi Foundation, said sand plays an important role in the ecosystem. “The presence of river sand has a major role in agriculture as they function as the repository of groundwater under each spell of water flow in the otherwise drought prone or monsoon dependent area. Sand because of its high porosity and permeability values retain a huge quantity of water. In places like Chitradurga, farmers have understood the value of sand and started soil conservation. Sand also acts like a filter and prevents pollutants from entering the ground water,” he said. The foundation jointly with the several environmentalists has launched a campaign against the move on Twitter. In a week’s time, a memorandum would be submitted to the minor irrigation department and the law ministry urging to drop the new sand policy, which will reportedly add Rs 60-70 crores to the treasury and further encourage illegal mining. Core team member of the United Conservation Movement, Sandeep Anirudhan said: “It’s high time we have ecologists in every department of government. The new policy seems to encourage the sand mafia and normalise illegal mining. Sand mining destroys the entire aquifer. Ground water sources will dry up as it happened in Cauvery delta districts of Tamil Nadu. It will finish off the freshwater ecosystem. Fresh water fishes have already reduced by more than 80% due to pollution and overfishing. Since most villages annually extract silt from lakes and ponds that is used in farms, with auctioning of sand blocks, the entire system is affected, and native community resilience will be affected negatively. Majority of lakes of Bengaluru have already vanished. We are taking up a public campaign against it and if needed a PIL too.” JC Madhuswamy, minister for law and parliamentary affairs said the government has laid down a policy for sand mining and the mines and geology department will formulate rules and procedures taking into consideration all factors. “We will see to it that there is no adverse impact on the environment. Tehsildars will be made nodal officers to identify and locally sell sand at Rs 700 per metric tonnes to beneficiaries of the lower income housing schemes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-unhappy-with-state-govts-new-sand-policy/articleshow/75584141.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||1,800 apply to return to dist, only 4 get NOC||NAGPUR: Online applications by the stranded persons to travel out of Nagpur have been pouring in at the district collectorate. Amid all this, 1800 have also applied to return. They are people from district stranded in different places. A no-objection certificate (NOC) has been granted to only four so far and rest of the cases remain pending. This is because a reference has to first come from district administration or the police of the place where the persons are stranded. Only on such a reference, the local administration can grant a permission for the person to return, said a source in the collectorate. The four cases okayed so far include two each from Ahmedabad and Baroda in Gujarat, said a source dealing with the process. Unless the authorities from other districts send a reference, other cases cannot be cleared, he stated. Applications of persons stranded in other districts of the state are being handled separately. The officer concerned at the district collector’s office said work on clearing the intra-state cases was yet to begin. Even the number of applications has not been compiled yet, said the officer. As special trains are being run to transport stranded persons, the priority will be given to the migrant workers living in shelter homes. There is a separate mechanism for their repatriation. Among others those who have their own means of travel are being allowed at present, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1800-apply-to-return-to-dist-only-4-get-noc/articleshow/75587586.cms||Shishir Arya
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism revival guidelines by mid-May: Centre||Jaipur: The state tourism department has been working with the heritage hotel industry to negotiate a revival package, said Sreya Guha, principal secretary, tourism. After interactions with the hospitality and tourism sector, the department has formulated various recommendations some of which have been given to the state finance department, she said at a video conference also attended by Rupinder Brar, Union additional director general, tourism and president of IHHA, Gaj Singh of Marwar. The Centre, along with state tourism departments, is thrashing out various strategies to revive the sector after the lockdown is lifted. Brar said the Centre is working to create a set of guidelines for travellers, monuments, guides, hotels and restaurants, tour operators and other stakeholders. “The official document should be ready by the middle of this month. It will be in line with the health ministry guidelines while incorporating various ideas that are coming from the industry,” said Brar. Giving some details about the revival strategy in Rajasthan, Guha said salary support, waiving off electricity charges, state tax reimbursement, reduction in bar fees, among others have also been looked into. “Guidelines have already been created for monuments which revolve around staggered timings, mandatory online bookings, hygiene protocols etc,” she said. There is a consensus that it will take time before foreign tourists fly again and the focus now needs to be on domestic sector. Gaj Singh said, “There is a need to focus on state-wise marketing with emphasis on each state’s specialties and peculiarities. Hotels should project a clean image by maintaining the utmost hygiene and sanitation standards. Itineraries should be created for families particularly in urban areas who want to experience rural life.” He said ancillary industries need to be developed so as to engage existing hotel employees in services such as food delivery, handicrafts production and other activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-revival-guidelines-by-mid-may-centre/articleshow/75587590.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha to seek Centre’s approval for chariot construction||Bhubaneswar: Keeping in view the volatility of Covid-19 situation in the country, the state government has decided to seek approval from the Centre to start construction of chariots for the Rath Yatra scheduled in Puri on June 23. On Monday, the Jagannath temple managing committee wrote to the state government and sought permission for the chariot work even though the government is yet to decide whether to host the world famous Rath Yatra this time or not. “Since the national lockdown is in force, we have requested our state chief secretary to take up the issue with the ministry of home affairs,” a senior officer of law department said. The issue snowballed into a political free-for-all with the opposition BJP and Congress demanding an early decision on Rath Yatra and chariot-making. “Rath Yatra is a state subject and the Centre has a very limited role to play in it. The state government has been talking to central officers over phone and holding video conference on Covid-19 issues almost every day. Why has the state government not raised the issue so far with central officers,” asked senior BJP leader Bijoy Mohapatra. The Congress flayed the state government for dilly-dallying on chariot making. “First the government had said it would take a decision on Rath Yatra after end of lockdown on May 3. When the lockdown was extended till May 17, the temple committee on Monday unanimously resolved to start chariot work and sought the state government’s approval. Now, the government is silent. It should immediately take a call,” Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik said. Niranjan said the government should also clarify whether Rath Yatra can be observed at other places in the state. Temple servitors too expressed displeasure over the government’s tactic. “We are already late. Chariot work should have started on April 26 Akshaya Tritiya, but was suspended in view of lockdown restrictions. When the temple managing committee has already decided to start the chariot work, what is the government waiting for? The committee clearly said it would obey government’s instructions, including cancellation of Rath Yatra (if situation does not improve in days to come),” senior servitor Binayak Dasmohapatra said. “We do not see any hope of start of chariot work. Unless a decision is taken at the earliest, we may not be able to complete the mammoth construction of the three chariots in time. The delay will affect the quality of work,” Bijay Maharana, chief carpenter of Lord Jagannath’s Nandighosh chariot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-to-seek-centres-approval-for-chariot-construction/articleshow/75585759.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||On foot and trucks, migrants take pit-stop in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The second extension of lockdown has triggered another wave of exodus of migrant workers from big cities to their native states. These people are travelling on foot or on top of trucks to complete a journey of hundreds of kilometres. The scorching sun or rain are no deterrent for them. They keep on moving so that they reach home. As the district lies at the crossroads of East-West and North-South corridors, these migrants are passing through here. The district administration has set up a camp for them near Jamtha. TOI found hundreds of migrants at the camp having food, getting screened and waiting for trucks to take them home. The migrants are going home because they have run out of money. Naresh Mandal, a mason from West Bengal, told TOI, “I lived in a Mumbai slum. In the one-and-a-half months of lockdown, my savings got exhausted. Our landlord was demanding rent. So, we had no option but to go home, where my parents live. We started walking from Mumbai and then got a lift in a truck up to some distance. We had to walk again before a trucker agreed to drop us here.” Mandal said despite tall talk by politicians, nobody offered them food so that they could stay back. “I saw social workers feeding the poor only on television. Nobody is doing it on ground,” he added. Raja Guin, Mandal’s roommate, said they had not sought any permission from the collector to leave for their homes. “I am not aware of any such requirement. We are poor people, who just want to go home. We only want that government should not harass us on way,” he told TOI. Govind Mahto, a construction labourer from Jharkhand, echoed same sentiments. “I was not earning anything in Hyderabad due to the lockdown. When the government extended it yet again, I decided to move. All my savings are gone. I will at least get to eat in my native village,” he told TOI while waiting for a truck at the Jamtha camp. Many social organizations are providing free food to the migrants. Abhishek Joshi, an RSS activist, told TOI, “We provide them food here and then ask truck drivers to give them a lift so that they don’t have to travel on foot. They are also being screened here.” Dr Pranam Sadavarte of National Cancer Institute was screening the migrants at the camp with other doctors. “We are doing basic screening here. We separate the vulnerable people from others. We advise pregnant women to not to travel under such conditions and if they do not listen, advise them some precautions,” he told TOI. Some policemen were standing on the roadside near the camp. A policeman Sachin Shripad said we had tried to persuade the migrants to shift to shelter homes in the city, but in vain. “They say that they don’t have money and want to go home. It is impossible to persuade them. You can see that social distancing has gone for a toss. They are travelling atop trucks cheek by jowl. Unfortunately, nothing can be done,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-foot-and-trucks-migrants-take-pit-stop-in-nagpur/articleshow/75587598.cms||Ashish Roy
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||Student running pillar to post for fitness certificate||NAGPUR: A stranded persons can theoretically get a fitness certificate for their travel back home from a municipal clinic in the city. But locating the right one may not be easy. They have to go to the clinic assigned to the municipal zone where the person lives. The facility is open only for three hours between 9 am and 12 noon. On Wednesday Bhavika Rathod, a student from Jharsuguda in Odisha, struggled to get a fitness certificate for travelling out of Nagpur. She was referred from one hospital to another with no success. In the city for seven months undergoing coaching for an entrance examination, she is now a stranded person. After making an online application to travel out, she needs to keep a fitness certificate ready. As her father has completed all formalities to drive down from Jharsuguda and take her back, Bhavika struggles to get clearances from Nagpur. She can’t leave without clearance documents and the first step for it is getting a fitness certificate. As people crowded the Mayo Hospital (IGGMC) and Government Medical College, orders were issued that health check-ups of stranded persons will only be done at NMC’s clinics. Private registered medical practioners were also given authority to issue a certificate. Bhavika first went to the Indira Gandhi Hospital at Daga Layout, which is closest to her house in Gandhi Nagar Corporation colony but was turned away. The staff asked her to go to the NMC clinics. She reached the clinic at Laxmi Nagar zone only to be tossed away. “I went to the Indira Gandhi hospital because that was closest and an NMC hospital, where they told me to reach the hospital under Laxmi Nagar zone. These are at Jaitala and Somalwada. When I called up there, I was told my house comes under Dharampeth zone, which has a hospital in Futala. By the time I called up the hospital it was 12 and was asked to come next day,” Bhavika told TOI. “Even before I could ask them the exact location, the staff cut the phone,” she said. The list issued by the NMC only names the zones and the address of hospital under it. Each zone covers a number of localities. A newcomer may find it tough to even identify the zone under which his house comes. Assistant NMC commissioner, Ram Joshi confirmed that the residents will have to only go to the hospital under their zone as he shared the list with TOI. NMC’s medical officer (health), Dr Praveen Gantawar also said private practioners could issue certificate by following the laid down procedure. Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, president of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Nagpur unit, said the private doctors were aware of that and are carrying out check-ups too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/student-running-pillar-to-post-for-fitness-certificate/articleshow/75587584.cms||Shishir Arya
May 7, 2020||Nashik||3,751 stranded people travel from Nashik division||Nashik: As many as 3,751 stranded people, including students, tourists and workers, started their journey back home from Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts of the Nashik division onboard end-to-end Shramik trains. While 1,251 passengers boarded from the Shirdi railway station in Ahmednagar district, another set of 2,500 passengers started from Nandurbar district. Those from Shirdi are headed to the Lakhimpur district in Uttar Pradesh. The local district administration had contacted their counterparts in UP and had arranged for the transportation after screening the medically-fit people who were stuck up in Ahmednagar. This is the first such movement from the district. In all, 1,484 people had placed their request to travel from Ahmednagar with the district administration, which processed their documents, carried out health check-ups and provided all the protective gear required during the transportation along with food and water. The 22 coach-rake carried 752 adults, 314 minors and 185 children below the age of 4 years. The social distancing norms were followed, the officials added. Similarly, 2,500 persons left for Araria and Purnia districts in Bihar from Nandurbar on Wednesday. “In two days, 4,514 people, mostly students from the Jamia Complex in Akkalkuwa, left Nandurbar district for their homes. The arrangement was made by the district administration,” Collector Rajendra Bharud said. The students from Akkalkuwa and the students from Shahada, Nawapur and other areas were brought by buses to the Nandurbar railway station, from where the two trains started. The two trains left for the respective destinations at 2 pm and 3 pm. The social distancing was practised from the time they boarded the buses from their respective destinations and even when they landed at the railway station. “Circles were marked outside the railway station. After being given the tickets, the travellers were brought on the platform where they were again made to stand in a line with adequate distance between them,” the officials from Nandurbar district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3751-stranded-people-travel-from-nashik-division/articleshow/75585714.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Sadhna visits Uma Bharti to greet her on 59th birthday||Bhopal: Sadhna Singh, wife of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited the official residence of former chief minister Uma Bharti on Wednesday and greeted her on behalf of her husband on her 59th birthday.In return, Sadhna Singh got blessings and a ‘chunri' (stole) from the Sadhvi who wished her on their 28th marriage anniversary. Bharti, later took to social media to express her feelings and said she blessed Sadhna Singh with happiness."On May 5, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Sadhna tied nuptial knot. I pray to the Almighty that they stay blessed till eternity. Chief minister Chouhan's wife and my respected bhabhi (sister-in-law) arrived at my residence on the occasion of her 28th marriage anniversary. I presented her a garland and chunri of goddess Durga to bless her happiness," tweeted Bharti.The BJP national vice-president also shared her picture with Sadhna Singh on the social media platform. Sources said that Bharti had celebrated her 59th birthday in Bhopal without much fanfare. A day ago, she had also penned down her long journey from birth to her political career in the social media.However, during her birthday, chief minister Chouhan could not greet Bharti or meet her in person due to his engagements amid COVID-19 crisis. Hence, Sadhna Singh decided to represent her husband.Uma Bharti and Chouhan had been at loggerheads since 2005 when Chouhan succeeded her as the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh replacing Babulal Gaur. Later, the two leaders buried all the differences when Chouhan returned to power in 2008 and struck a hattrick of wins in 2013 assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sadhna-visits-uma-bharti-to-greet-her-on-59th-birthday/articleshow/75586752.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Nearly five lakh workers sign up to go home; 368 from Nepal, B’desh||Seeking to return home at the earliest, about 4.88 migrant labourers have registered themselves with the state authorities — among them are 368 workers from Bangladesh and Nepal who are living in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi and Udupi. The state government now faces the massive task of screening, accommodating and transporting this work force to different destinations; as for workers from the neighbouring countries, it will have to coordinate with the Centre. The labourers have registered their names with police, revenue department and other officials in their districts, requesting transport facilities to return to their home towns and villages as they have no jobs or income due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, CM BS Yediyurappa appealed to migrant workers for the second time in four days, asking them to stay back and wait for work to resume. “I appeal to labourers with folded hands, don’t pay heed to any speculation. It is the responsibility of the government that you get your old jobs back. Don’t make a hasty decision to return home. Stay here and work, as you have so far,” he said. At a meeting with builders and officials, he said there was a need to restart businesses, construction and other industrial activities in the state, and, control “unnecessary travel” of workers. According to trade unions, there are around 8 lakh labourers in the state. Among those who have registered to return home, more than 2 lakh are from north Indian states. Workers from Odisha top the list — the CM has already assured his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that they would be looked after and moved safely. Bihar comes a close second. Three trains have already transported workers to Bihar while one has headed for Bhubaneswar. “We are worried about providing food and shelter to such a large number of labourers,” labour minister Shivaram Hebbar told TOI. “Once we finish the task of transporting labourers within the state, we will look into the issue of transporting labourers of other states from Karnataka. As far as labourers from Bangladesh and Nepal are concerned, the central government is looking into it. An exclusive department is handling issues related to labourers from neighbouring countries.” Secretary in the labour department P Manivannan said inter-state transportation has begun. Between May 3 and May 4, six trains headed for Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan with more than 7,100 workers. “We are collecting data of migrant labourers for future reference as well. The Centre will look after transportation of labourers from neighbouring countries.” Mahesh Pattar, state secretary for Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said Karnataka should follow the example of Telangana, Kerala and other states in sending back migrant workers by arranging for more trains. “The state should not delay this further. The Centre should intervene and expedite their journey home. The government must ensure free food, testing and transportation for the workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nearly-five-lakh-workers-sign-up-to-go-home-368-from-nepal-bdesh/articleshow/75575412.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Candidates seek clarity from PSC on Group I exams||Amaravati: The candidates aspiring for Group-I cadre are in a piquant situation as Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has kept them under dark after postponing the examination due to Covid-19. APPSC has not readied any interim calendar to conduct the main examination. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which met four times during the pandemic, has postponed the civil services prelimimary examination but has said it would release the new schedule on May 20 by giving a minimum of 30 days to prepare for the exams. As per the initial schedule, the civils prelims was set for May 31. Many of the Group I aspirants have dragged the PSC to the high court. “We do not have any clarity on when will APPSC conduct the exam. Chief minister should look into the issue,” said a candidate. She said the APPSC should have clarity on whether the state exam would be held after the civil service examination. Many candidates appearing for Group-I mains are keen on appearing for the civil services examination as well. “I request APPSC to hold Group 1 mains before the prelims so that it will help us in civils prelims. I request the commission to give clarity on the exam schedule as the lockdown is likely to get over by the end of May,” said Sriharsha, a candidate from Vijayawada. The chief minister had promised that January would be a recruitment month every year and the recruitment process would be completed within six months. However, no fresh notifications were issued since January 2020 by APPSC. The candidates are worried that the government might not take up any fresh recruitment due to Covid-19 induced financial constraints. “We will be happy if the APPSC could complete at least the ongoing recruitment process for Group-I officers,” said Lakshman, another candidate from Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/candidates-seek-clarity-from-psc-on-group-i-exams/articleshow/75585783.cms||Samdani MN
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||HC wants T’s plan for stranded pilgrims||Hyderabad:Telangana high court has directed the state's advocate general BS Prasad to inform to court by May 8 about the steps being taken by the state to bring back 107 pilgrims from Telangana stranded in Sirohi of Rajasthan. Chief Justice Chauhan expressed concern over the pilgrims’ safety . The bench took up the cause after receiving a letter from advocate P Ramakanth Reddy about the plight of the pilgrims, most of whom are women. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-wants-ts-plan-for-stranded-pilgrims/articleshow/75586770.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||About 4,800 migrant labourers from Gujarat, Kerala to reach state today||Bhubaneswar: Four Shramik Special trains carrying around 4,800 Odia migrant labourers stranded in Gujarat’s Surat and Kerala will reach Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district on Thursday. One train from Palghat in Kerala and three trains from Surat left for Odisha on Wednesday. On Wednesday, three trains reached Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district carrying around 3,500 Odia migrant labourers stranded in Surat. Each train accommodates around 1,200 people. As most of the passengers belong to Ganjam and other southern Odisha districts, the special trains halt at Jagannathpur station on the outskirts of Berhampur city. The Ganjam district administration had put up counters for the registration of passengers before they were headed towards their quarantine centres. “The government officials of different districts wait outside the station with buses and other vehicles to take their people. Vehicles bring them from the station after health screening and quarantine stamping on hand,” a senior government officer said. So far 13 special trains carrying around 15,500 people have reached Odisha in four days. As many as 10 trains came from Surat in Gujarat, two trains from Kerala and one from Bengaluru in Karnataka. Four special trains are on the way. The total number of trains to the state will touch 17 after these four trains reach Jagannathpur on Thursday. Sources said the Railways may run more such trains to bring Odias stranded in different parts of the country. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has announced that Odisha will not allow any bus from Surat in view of the accident and other difficulties. He had told media persons on Tuesday that the state will allow migrant workers from Surat to come via train only. The first Shramik Special train for Odisha had started from Aluva in Kerala to Khurda Road on the night of May 1 night with an additional stoppage at Jagannathpur in Ganjam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/about-4800-migrant-labourers-from-gujarat-kerala-to-reach-state-today/articleshow/75585778.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Leopard attacks man, kills two sheep||BELAGAVI: Panic gripped villagers living near the forest fringes of Khanapur taluk after a leopard attacked a man and killed two sheep. The leopard has been on the prowl since two days and killed two sheep in the early hours of of Tuesday. Shrikanta Gouda, 23, from Avarolli village, miraculously escaped the attack on him by the big cat on Wednesday. He was attacked when he went to the fringes of the forest to collect fodder for his livestock. People in the surrounding villages — Hiremunavalli, Tolagi, Bilagi and Kadtan Bagewadi — too are worried. Range forest officer Shrikanta Kadolakar said department staff are camping at the village to catch the leopard. “Not just Avarolli village, our men have been deployed in neighbouring villages too. We have made all arrangements to catch the animal,” he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/leopard-attacks-man-kills-two-sheep/articleshow/75584200.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Notification on KMC board of administrators||KOLKATA: A notification was issued on Wednesday by the principal secretary to the state urban development and municipal affairs department, announcing that a board of admi- nistrators (BOA), led by outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim, will take over the Kolkata Municipal Corporation board.  The tenure of the present board will expire on Thursday.  TOI on Wednesday carried a report on the possibility of a board of administrators taking over the present civic board. The BOA will start functioning from Friday to keep all essential civic services running.  The notification stated that the new BOA would take effective role in mitigating the Covid-19 effects and also keep all essential civic services running. The BOA will nominate sitting councillors who will continue to serve their wards but won't have any financial or administrative powers. This is for the first time that such BOA has been constituted for civic board. Meanwhile, in a late development, KMC commissioner Khalil Ahmed was given the additional responsibility of urban development and municipal affairs in place of Subrata Gupta, who has been transferred to the department of food processing and horticulture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/notification-on-kmc-board-of-administrators/articleshow/75589066.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Industries struggle as portal for passes down since May 4||CHENNAI: The state’s portal to issue online passes to industries remained dysfunctional till Wednesday, leaving district collectors to issue manual passes. Industries across the state, which were shut since the lockdown began in March, were allowed to reopen (except those in corporation/municipality limits) on May 4 by the state government. They were to operate with 50% of their workforce after obtaining passes through Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) portal tnepass.tnega.org. The same passes were an accreditation to run the industry and transport employees in company-owned vehicles. While the announcement about the revised protocol for industries and passes came on May 2, a release from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s office said the portal will function from May 4 to procure passes. However, the website hasn’t been working since Monday, complained several industry sources. Many industries including those in Sriperumbudur and Oragadam belt along Chennai’s western suburbs remain closed as a result. C Babu, former state president of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA), said not all workers reside close to the industries and travel from Porur, Thirmullaivoyal and even Tiruvallur district to work in the units. Police will not allow them to cross district borders and check posts without a pass. Kancheepuram district collector P Ponniah on Tuesday organised a meeting with some of the industries and requested them to send their applications for passes to him via email. They were processed and manual passes were issued to around 200 industries in the past two days, Ponniah told TOI. More than 190 of the 200 industries, including Hyundai, Apollo Tyres and Royal Enfield, have started functioning and the remaining applications will be cleared on Thursday, he added. Daimler has received approval while some EMS units including Flex started production with very limited staff. “We had to get the passes done after submitting voluminous records, including that of vehicles, private and employee movement buses. The local administration helped us but the entire process was done manually,” said the HR head of an automotive factory, requesting anonymity. “We were told that it might take a couple of more days for the website to work properly,” the official said Not only major industries even micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were facing troubles. Unlike major units, MSMEs need not apply for passes and company ID cards will suffice, said the government order. But most companies don’t provide ID cards to skilled labour as they keep moving to different units every six or seven months. So, the government should instruct police to accept self-declaration forms given by MSMEs, Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/industries-struggle-as-portal-for-passes-down-since-may-4/articleshow/75586773.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Village ponds off limits, panchayats ready plan to provide water to quarantine centres||Bhubaneswar: As Odias troop back to their villages in Balangir district from different states, and with many expected to be moved to quarantine centres, water scarcity is emerging as a problem area. More so after the panchayat representatives made it clear they won’t allow the returnees staying in quarantine centres to access the village ponds for fear the villagers may get infected. To tide over the crisis, the representatives are now trying to make alternate arrangements for the drinking and other needs of the returnees. Four blocks of Balangir district under Titlagarh sub-division will receive around 35,000 migrants for which schools, community halls and panchayats offices have been turned into quarantine centres. During summer, Titlagarh becomes extremely hot and water scarcity becomes acute in the months of May-June. Having realized that there would be scarcity of water, especially for bathing and washing, several panchayats have set up temporary water tanks, which will be in operation during the entire duration that the quarantine homes are open, and water will be pumped from nearby pond or well to the tanks. “We have deep borewells at many panchayats. We will draw water for drinking from the tubewell using submersible motor pump. If required, tractor-mounted tankers will be used to supply water to the quarantine centres,” said Harinarayan Mishra, sarpanch of Keshkela panchayat. So far, 93,000 migrant labourers have registered themselves with the government for return to the villages of Balangir district. Most of these migrants had gone with their families to south Indian states to work in brick kilns. Dayaram Agrawal, the sarpanch of Naren, said they have created two facilities to accommodate migrants. “We have separate toilets and bathing enclosure for the migrants. If tanker water is supplied on a daily basis, there won’t be a shortage,” Agrawal said. Titlagarh sub-collector Sudhakar Nayak said the migrants won’t be allowed to move out of the quarantine centres, not even to use a tubewell. “Water for both drinking and bathing will be provided. In a centre where there is water source, we will need a motor pump and pipe to provide water. In case there is no water source, either mobile tankers will be used or water will be pumped from the nearby pond,” Nayak said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/village-ponds-off-limits-panchayats-ready-plan-to-provide-water-to-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75585832.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Toddy shops to open from May 13||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as the state cabinet decided to permit toddy shops in the state to function from May 13, it deferred taking a decision on opening of liquor shops to a later occasion after a broader debate. The cabinet that met here on Wednesday, decided not to take a call on the matter now. It is reliably learnt that though a brief discussion regarding reopening of liquor shops happened on Wednesday, the matter was deferred for a broader discussion as suggested by the chief minister. Sources said that the matter is more of a political issue now and the decision would be taken only after the matter is discussed in the CPM state secretariat on Friday. Despite the Centre giving permission for the sale of liquor, the state’s decision to defer the matter has raised many an eyebrow, as it has been in the forefront of states which wanted to allow the sale of liquor, even in the midst of lockdown. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the delay is only because of the law and order issues in many states when the liquor shops were opened. “We have witnessed law and order issues in certain states after the opening of liquor shops. That cannot be allowed to happen. So, it is only that we are taking time to find solution to all possible issues that may arise,” he said. The chief minister also did not rule out the possibility of exploring options of online liquor sale. “We will see what all we can do,” he said, specifically to a question whether the state government is planning to introduce online sales of liquor. The state is also considering the possibility of introducing a Covid-cess in liquor price when it is opened, that can fetch a decent share of revenue to the state exchequer. Several other states have already introduced such an additional charge on liquor. States like Delhi has hiked the liquor price by 70%. Earlier, when the floods struck the state in 2018, the state government had introduced a special flood cess on liquor for three months, that had fetched Rs 300 crore to the state exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/toddy-shops-to-open-from-may-13/articleshow/75584242.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government to get Rs 5,000 crore buzz from liquor price hike||CHENNAI: The state government on Wednesday revised the prices of liquor to boost its revenue, a day ahead of reopening Tasmac retail outlets across the state barring Chennai. Wednesday’s price hike and an earlier hike in February together could earn the state-owned liquor corporation an additional Rs 5,500 crore revenue for the financial year 2020-2021. The development comes on the lines of Andhra Pradesh and Delhi governments increasing liquor rates earlier this week. Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) is the state’s cash cow and its coffers bled about Rs 3,700 crore in revenue during the 42 days liquor outlets were shut due to the lockdown. An official statement from Tasmac on Wednesday said excise rates on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have been increased by 15%. Accordingly, the prices of 180ml of medium and premium varieties have gone up by up to Rs 20 and ordinary IMFL varieties by up to Rs 10. A full (750ml) will cost Rs 40 to Rs 80 more. Interestingly, this is the second price revision this year, the previous hike being on February 7. “While the revision in February was expected to increase the government revenue by Rs 2,000 crore, Wednesday’s revision is expected to earn us Rs 3500 - Rs 3,750 crore more this financial year (2020-2021), depending on the volume of liquor sold,” a senior official at Tasmac said. While the total revenue of the corporation was Rs 30,000 crore last fiscal (2019-2020), it is expected to go up to around Rs 33, 000 crore this year, the official added. There was no revenue the first month of this financial year (April) as all Tasmac outlets were closed during the lockdown to contain Covid-19. Had the outlets remained open, the revenue would have crossed Rs 35,000 crore during this fiscal of 2020-21, he added. Tasmac is an important source of revenue to the state government, wherein Tamil Nadu’s non-GST revenue forms 60% of the total revenue. “Demand for non-GST sources such as liquor and fuel will not go down even if we increase their prices. They form not less than 40% of the total revenue of Tamil Nadu,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-get-rs-5k-cr-buzz-from-liquor-price-hike/articleshow/75586779.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three die in explosion while tinkering with bomb in Pokhran range||JAISALMER: Three youths were killed after an unexploded bomb went off in Pokhran firing range in Jaisalmer on Wednesday evening. Sources said the three were passing through the area illegally on a tractor loaded with fodder when they spotted the bomb and started tinkering with it. Within seconds, it went off killing them instantly. On hearing the explosion, villagers reached the spot and informed the local police station. Officers from Ramdeora police station, accompanied by senior Army officers, reached the spot and started investigation. The deceased have been identified as Magha Ram Meghwal (35), Pura Ram Meghwal (30) and Fagha Ram Meghwal (18), all residents of Teka in Jodhpur district. Since firing exercises of the Indian Army are currently on hold due to the lockdown, villagers are using the opportunity to illegally use the route as a shortcut, official sources said. The three deceased were on their way home from Delasar. “Three youths of Teka village were going through this illegal route on a tractor trolley to another village. On the way, they saw a bomb-like thing and started tinkering with it when it exploded killing all of them,” police said. Sources said the bomb was possibly tank ammunition, which had failed to explode during firing exercises. SP Kiran Kung said the three died due to the explosion at the firing range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-die-in-explosion-while-tinkering-with-bomb-in-pokhran-range/articleshow/75587599.cms||Vimal Bhatia
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Nasopharyngeal wash may prevent Covid infection: says a study||JAIPUR: City-based pulmonologists have conducted a study that says the technique of nasopharyngeal wash (gargling and ‘jal neti’) may prevent coronavirus from inhabiting and replicating in nasal and pharyngeal (throat) mucosa. The technique is useful in reducing symptoms, transmission and viral shedding in cases of acute respiratory tract infections, they claimed. The pulmonologists claimed that washing nasal and pharyngeal passage with saline water is useful in combating coronavirus. A research study authored by Dr Sheetu Singh, a chest specialist at SMS Medical College, Jaipur, has a potential of helping patients to fight against the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In this rapid systematic analysis paper Dr Sheetu summarised that this type of therapy may have potential of add-on therapy in prevention and treatment of diseases like Covid. However, she emphasised on proper learning of the nasal wash technique under expert supervision. The analysis of multiple studies was done in ‘Nasopharyngeal wash in preventing and treating upper respiratory tract infections: Could it prevent Covid-19?’, which says that the route of entry for SARS-CoV-2 is either through the nose, mouth and eyes. Similar to the concept of hand washing, flushing of the nose and mouth, the portals of entry of the virus to the respiratory tract may bring down the viral load, reduce transmission, symptoms, and duration of illness. It further says that reduction of viral load with hypertonic saline gargles and nasal wash may bring down the transmission to close contacts and subsequently prevent viral infections in nasopharynx. The findings of the study are based on the results of multiple studies conducted earlier in different parts of the world. In the study, the randomised controlled trials (RCTs), case-control and cohort studies comparing nasal saline treatment/gargling/steam inhalation/kunjal/stomach saline wash with at least one other intervention or placebo were included. “Like hand wash, nose and throat wash may also remove or reduce viral load. In previous studies it has been shown that cells in throat and nasal mucosa convert chloride ion of hypertonic saline to hypochlorous acid (HOCl) having anti-viral effect. Interestingly, HOCL is also an active component of the bleaching powder, which is used in disinfecting hands by wash,” Dr Virendra Singh, former superintendent, SMS hospital, and co-author of the study, said. The research stressed that on similar lines the gargles and nasal wash may be tried in India according to individual preference in this Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nasopharyngeal-wash-may-prevent-covid-infection-says-a-study/articleshow/75587651.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 7, 2020||Pune||Except in 69 hotspots, shops to remain open for 12 hours in Pune||PUNE: Shops will remain open between 7am and 7pm in all the non-containment zones of Pune. All shops selling essentials and five shops selling non-essentials will be allowed to operate in these areas. But in the 69 containment zones declared by the civic body only shops selling essentials will open and that too between 10am and 2 pm. The Pune Municipal Corporation issued an order to this effect on Wednesday. It stated that citizens and traders will have to follow social distancing in norms and must take other precautionary measures for controlling the spread of the coronavirus. Shop owners should provide identity cards to their employees. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the city is still in the red zone, so citizens will have to be judicious while using the services in the relaxation period. But many citizens said it may not translate into reality considering the way the police have been operating. A resident of Sahakarnagar No. 2, which is a non-containment area, said the police have been ordering closure of grocery shops before noon and the shops are not allowed to open before 10am. Another shopkeeper said even shops in containment zones are allowed to operate between 10am and 2pm as per the PMC order. “But we are allowed to do business barely for two hours. The police do not allow us to open shops even 10 minutes before 10 am,” he said, adding that the ‘messengers’ are constantly doing the rounds. The same goes for vegetable vendors. Meanwhile, as per the PMC order, all standalone shops in housing societies will be allowed to stay open between 7am and 7pm. Five non-essential shops will be defined keeping a parameter of per kilometre road length, within a range of 1km only five non-essential shops will be allowed. Door-to-door supply of essential items, life-saving medicines and cooked food is allowed between 10am and 10pm. The civic body had sealed a part of the city areas on April 6 for the containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/except-in-69-hotspots-shops-to-remain-open-for-12-hours/articleshow/75587595.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||15 Tablighi Jamaat men booked in Moradabad, 25 sent to jail in Amroha district||BAREILLY: Police in Moradabad have booked at least 15 Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members who are already placed under quarantine centre. The police said that they had participated at Markaz congregation in Delhi and after that they visited Ramnagar in Uttarakhand before reaching Moradabad. Besides, five people who are residents of Nagphani area were also shifted to temporary jail on Wednesday after completing quarantine period. “They were traced by a surveillance team and shifted to quarantine centre. Now, we have lodged an FIR under section 188 of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act,” said additional superintendent of police (traffic) Satish Chandra. ASP Chandra is also nodal Covid-19 officer in the district. According to police sources, all TJ members were taken to quarantine centre from Kanth area where they had taken shelter at Eidgah locality under Nai Basti. All the TJ members had reached the Markaz on February 12 and after participating in the event there they reached Ramnagar in Uttarakhand. After staying for a few days, they came back to Kanth and took shelter at the mosque. Beside, one Riazuddin who is caretaker of Banjaran mosque, is also booked for hiding information. Notably, eight TJ members, who are Indonesian nationals, have already been sent to jail after completing quarantine period in Moradabad. ASP Chandra said that after completing quarantine, the TJ members are being shifted to temporary jail and till now 71 accused, including Jamaatis, have been lodged there. On the other hand, police in Amroha district booked as many as 23 TJ men - all residents of Gujarat. Among 23, three TJ men and a local man who had given shelter to them were tested positive for virus. Joya outpost in-charge Pramod Pathak filed a complaint against the TJ men following which FIR was lodged against them in Amroha. According to the police complaint, some TJ members of Gujarat had stayed at a madrassa in Joya while others had taken shelter at Musharraf Husain’s residence in Fattepur Mafi village. “Despite repeated announcement, neither TJ members nor the person who had given them shelter informed the health department about their arrival from Markaz. Later on, they were traced after the Centre had shared mobile phone numbers with UP government following which police took them on surveillance,” the police officer said. Inspector Sharad Mallik said that an FIR under sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against the 25 accused and they were shifted to temporary jail set up at Kanth road from the quarantine centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-tj-men-booked-in-moradabad-25-sent-to-jail-in-amroha-district/articleshow/75585842.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 7, 2020||Indore||Two days after easing of lockdown, MP green islands turn orange||INDORE: In the green all through lockdown 1 & 2, Jhabua and Neemuch were hit by five Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, just two days after travel restrictions were eased in the third phase of lockdown. Red flags went up in the administration of both districts, as they were considered two of the last bastions in the fight against coronavirus in MP. Curfew was clamped immediately in Neemuch, giving its residents the first taste of the restrictions most of the country has been under for over six weeks. All relaxations given on May 3, after lockdown 2.0, have been revoked, said Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh Raje. Four members of a family have tested positive for Covid-19 in Neemuch. They had hosted 11 relatives from Gujarat’s Dahod at a wedding on March 20. The Dahod family got stuck in Neemuch after the lockdown, but managed to return on April 29 by road; it reached Jhabua by bus and crossed the state border to Gujarat on a private vehicle. Seven of the group tested positive upon returning to Dahod, triggering alarm in the Neemuch family. They, too, were tested and Wednesday’s report found four of them infected. Officials launch contact tracing, 29 fresh samples sent for testCuriously, a woman from Jhabua, who had travelled on the same bus with the 11from Dahod, tested positive on Wednesday. Officials are trying to figure out how these 12 people were infected and what’s the common link. The Neemuch collector told TOI that the Dahod family had stayed for 40 days in Madhya Pradesh due to the lockdown. “It is yet to be ascertained how the family from Gujarat got infected. But four members of the host family in Neemuch have tested positive,” he said. As many as 37 primary contacts of both families have been tested for Covid-19. “We have launched contact tracing of more people, and 29 fresh samples have been sent for tests,” Raje said, adding curfew was imposed in Neemuch. The Jhabua woman is a resident of Naharpura village in Petlawad tehsil. She had visited her parents in nearby Kesharpura village before testing positive. Jhabua collector Prabal Sepaha has declared Naharpura and Kesharpura villages as containment areas – the first in the district. Villagers are being screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2-days-after-easing-of-lockdown-mp-green-islands-turn-orange/articleshow/75586775.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T workers in Gulf urge govt to pay airfare||Hyderabad: Workers from Telangana stranded in Gulf countries amid the Covid-19 have urged the state government to pay for their flight tickets back home. While India is operating special flights to evacuate Indian nationals struck abroad, they are required to pay the airfare. “The workers in Kurdistan have been out of work for several months. They can hardly gather something to eat and their families are living in penury too,” Ramchandar Rayalwas, vice-president of Telugu Gulf Employees Welfare Association in Erbil, Iraq, told TOI in a telephonic conversation. Krishna Donikeni, president of Gulf Workers Awareness Centre in Dubai said that although many workers are keen to return home, they are unable to buy their air ticket. “The government needs to help those going through a tough time,” said social worker Muralidar Reddy Gangula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-in-gulf-urge-govt-to-pay-airfare/articleshow/75586786.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Furious HC seeks answers from T, Centre on medical emergencies||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the state government to furnish to the court within two days the steps it is taking to rescue persons caught in emergency health situations, like pregnant women. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Sreenitha Pujari who contended that the government should learn a lesson from the death of a woman from Gadwal who was made to shuttle between hospitals in Gadwal, Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad. At the end of a three-day ordeal, both Janeela and her baby died in two different hospitals due to denial of timely medical help. The bench gave notices to the state, its medical authorities and also to central health authorities, asking them to file counters. The bench grew furious on absence of a mechanism that attends to non-Covid medical emergencies. Justice Vijaysen stressed the need for keeping ambulances ready in various areas of Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/furious-hc-seeks-answers-from-t-centre-on-medical-emergencies/articleshow/75587622.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rlys plan quarantine centres on wheels at 9 stns in state||Bhubaneswar: Nine stations in Odisha to have Covid-19 care rail coaches, after the Centre decided to convert railway coaches into Covid Care Centres at 215 stations across the country. Both suspected and confirmed cases can be housed in the railway coaches. The stations in Odisha are Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Sambalpur, Titlagarh and Kantabanji in Balangir district, Rayagada, Koraput, Jharsuguda and Rourkela. Healthcare staff from Railways are available at Bhubaneswar and Khurda Road stations only. The ministry of railways initiated conversion of train coaches to provide additional beds for Covid-19 patients as and when required. On April 2, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) had told the media that it will convert 261 train coaches to serve as quarantine or isolation facilities for Covid-19 suspected cases. The quarantine centres will have essential facilities like mosquito nets on the windows, one bathroom and three toilets in a coach, removal of middle berth, six liquid soap dispensers in each coach, bottle holders and dustbins, laptop and mobile charging facilities, pillow and bedsheets, plastic curtains at both ends of the aisle, mug and buckets in the bathrooms. “The state government will connect one hospital dedicated to Covid-19 with each train so that patients can be shifted to the hospital in case of emergency. The state will make suitable ambulance arrangements to shift the patient. Preferably one basic life support ambulance with oxygen and Ambubag should be stationed at the railway station where the train is placed,” said an official document from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rlys-plan-quarantine-centres-on-wheels-at-9-stns-in-state/articleshow/75585852.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Liquor vends to open today, government gives traders relief on licence fee||Chandigarh/Gurgaon: After 40 days of closure, liquor shops in Haryana are set to open from Wednesday. The rates will be higher than those detailed in the excise policy announced in February this year as the Khattar government has already announced its decision to impose “Covid cess” on the sale of liquor. For this, the Haryana cabinet on Tuesday approved a revised excise policy for the state. The retail liquor vends would be allowed to operate in all the districts except containment zones. However, no liquor vend will be permitted to operate in shopping malls anywhere in the state. The government has also restricted the timings for sale of liquor — it will be available between 7 am and 7 pm in urban and rural areas. In Gurgaon, liquor shops will be open from 8am to 6.45pm. “The liquor shops will open from Wednesday and they will have to follow social distancing,” said deputy excise and taxation commissioner, HC Dahiya. Elaborating about the guidelines he said liquor vends could not have more than five salesmen and all of them will have to wear face mask and use sanitisers. Like Delhi and other parts of the country, Gurgaon is also anticipating queues outside the liquor vends and to deal with the situation teams of excise department police will be on vigil. A representative of Discovery Wines said they have made all arrangements to ensure social distancing. “We have made marking outside the shops and at some places installed bamboo barricades to ensure social distancing,” he said. The liquor vends will avoid cash payments and most of the payments will be taken through cards or mobile wallet. The revised excise policy for 2020-21 would come into force from Wednesday and the financial year for the purpose of the excise policy has been extended till May 19, 2021. This decision was taken as there was no sale of liquor for more than a month due to lockdown in the state. To compensate the loss for licence allotees, Haryana has also decided not to charge any licence fee for the period when the retail liquor vends remained closed due to nationwide lockdown ie from April 1 to May 5. In another concession, the state government has decided give 10-day period — May 6 till May 15 — to set up their vends/warehouses throughout the state. Thus, the excise licences throughout Haryana would be valid for 375 days instead of normal 365 days up to May 15, 2021. If the government announces lockdown in whole state or in certain pockets, resulting in closure of retail vends, in such cases the licence fee and the quota for such period will be proportionately exempted by the excise and taxation commissioner (ETC), Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/liquor-vends-to-open-today-government-gives-traders-relief-on-licence-fee/articleshow/75565269.cms||Ajay Sura
May 7, 2020||Jodhpur||30 BSF jawans on Delhi duty test Covid-19 positive in Jodhpur||JAISALMER/JODHPUR: As many as 30 BSF jawans, who were on duty in Jama Masjid area of Delhi recently, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jodhpur on Wednesday. Around 57 jawans of the BSF reserve battalion, who had gone from Jaipur to Delhi, were called back to Jodhpur on suspicion of being infected. The battalion was deputed in Jama Masjid area after the Tablighi Jamaat fiasco came to light. The jawans were assisting Delhi police in maintaining law and order. However, after three Delhi police jawans tested positive, the paramilitary force called back its 57 jawans to BSF’s Subsidiary Training Centre (STC) in Jodhpur. Samples of all the jawans were taken on Tuesday and 30 of them tested positive on Wednesday. All the infected jawans have been admitted to AIIMS Jodhpur, while the rest have been quarantined at the STC. “Samples of 44 jawans were taken after their arrival in Jodhpur on Tuesday and were sent to AIIMS for examination. The report was released by AIIMS on Wednesday morning. Thirty samples tested positive,” said a BSF official, adding that test reports of 13 samples were awaited. According to sources, the jawans came to Jodhpur by bus on Tuesday. A few of them were admitted to the hospital at the BSF frontier headquarters premises after their health started deteriorating. BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha said that no other jawan at the local level in Jodhpur has been infected and an advisory has been issued for preventing the spread. BSF STC commanding officer V S Rathore said the BSF premises in Jodhpur has been sealed and a 300-bed quarantine centre has been readied. Meanwhile, six BSF companies from Jaisalmer, which had been deployed at Jammu and Kashmir at the time of abrogating Section 370, have now been sent to Gujarat to extend help in maintaining law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/30-bsf-jawanson-delhi-dutytest-positivein-jodhpur/articleshow/75587604.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||Tea seller slits his throat in Raopura police station||VADODARA: A tea seller, who was arrested by cops for selling tea and cigarettes from his house, slit his throat using a piece of glass at Raopura police station here on Wednesday afternoon. Sunil Raval was arrested after one of his neighbours complained to police control room that he was selling tea, cigarettes and other tobacco products from his house despite lockdown. On receiving information, cops nabbed Raval and brought him to police station to register an offence of violation of public notification. Police sources said at the police station, Raval got into arguments with cops following which one of them hit him with a baton. An infuriated Raval broke the mirror outside the bathroom in the police station and hurt himself. As Raval bled profusely, cops rushed him to SSG Hospital. A police officer said doctors had to put two stitches on the wound to stop the bleeding. “In the past too, he had attempted suicide after his wife left him and on Wednesday again he hurt himself,” deputy commissioner of police Sandeep Chaudhary said. Another police officer said earlier too Raval was brought to the police station when he was found roaming on road and warned not to violate lockdown guidelines before letting him go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tea-seller-slits-his-throat-in-raopura-police-station/articleshow/75584070.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly district administration grants permission to open book stores||BAREILLY: The district administration has granted permission for the opening of book shops, but they will have to ensure that the social distancing norms are followed. Though many government and private schools have started giving online classes amid the lockdown, students claimed the unavailability of books was affecting the studies. District inspector of schools Amarkant Singh on Wednesday said, “The district administration had earlier allowed book stores to sell articles only through home delivery but it could not be implemented successfully in Bareilly as many of them had a shortage of staff. Now, the district magistrate has approved to sell books at the stores itself. However, the book stores will have to follow the guidelines of the government, including maintaining social distancing, selling loose books, sanitisation of shops and ensuring sanitiser or soap for washing hands at the shop. If they fail to follow the guidelines, strict action will be taken against them.” Welcoming the district administration’s move, Khalid Jilani, convenor, Parents’ Forum, said, “In the online sale of books through home deliveries, many book stores were asking parents to purchase the complete set of stationery instead of selling loose books. The complete set contains unnecessary stationery items which were an additional expense.” “As the lockdown has severely affected the income of many families, the district administration should ensure that the book stores do not hike the prices of the stationery items,” added Jilani. District president of Independent Schools’ Association Parush Arora said, “We have been getting queries from parents on how students can study without books. The concrete studies can start only when students have books.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-dist-admin-grants-permission-to-open-book-stores/articleshow/75585867.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Protests across state as many against reopening liquor outlets||Chennai: The state government has come under severe attack from various quarters for its move to reopen Tasmac shops to sell liquor in areas excluding Chennai city from May 7 onwards. What caught the attention of one and all was an effort by five kids to walk about 30km from Padur on Old Mahabalipuram Road to the official residence of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday, demanding that the government rethink the move. Seven-year-old Akash gathered four of his friends for the march. They could not proceed much as police stopped them at Karapakkam and sent them back home. Akash has participated in many social activities like creating awareness on wearing helmets and ill-effects of liquor in the past. Protests were organised by several organisations across Madurai city on Wednesday. People demanded that liquor shops be kept closed till Covid-19 was brought under control. People at Ukkadam in Coimbatore have threatened protests on Thursday. The DMK and its allies have asked their functionaries to wear black shirts or black badges and raise slogans against the government for its failure to control the spread of Covid-19 and its decision to reopen Tasmac shops. By opening liquor shops, the government would end up spreading the pandemic faster, said the parties in a joint statement. VCK cadres hoisted black flags atop their houses across Erode district on Wednesday condemning the government’s move. If Tasmac shops are reopened, all government aid given to the poor would get routed to liquor shops, said former Union minister of state for home Pon Radhakrishnan. “When coronavirus is terrorising the state, people were slowly coming out of their addiction to liquor. Opening liquor shops will add to people’s trouble. When Kerala, which has handled the pandemic better, is delaying reopening of liquor shops, why is TN in a hurry to open them,” asked PMK founder S Ramadoss. AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran has faulted the government for looking at the Tasmac issue just from the revenue point of view. “Before citing neighbouring states as reason for reopening liquor shops, the state government should ask itself whether it has handled the Covid-19 crisis effectively,” said MNM leader Kamal Haasan. Is liquor an essential item to be sold now, he wondered. Meanwhile, the Trichy administration has decided to distribute tokens and impose rationing system to control crowd at Tasmac outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/protests-across-state-as-many-against-reopening-liquor-outlets/articleshow/75586787.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kochi||Now fight Covid with your foot||Thrissur: The Fab lab of government engineering college, Thrissur, has again developed another Covid-19 prevention system. The “pedal operated hand sanitizer dispenser” will dispense sanitize by using one’s foot. Students of the college Sourav P S, Ashwin Kumar, Pranav Balachandran and Cherian Francis, developed the sanitizer dispenser under the guidance of computer department lecturer Ajay James. The dispensers developed upon the special request from Thrissur medical college house surgeons association. A total of 10 pedal sanitizer dispenser have already been fixed at the Thrissur Mulankunnathukavu dental college. The pedal sanitizer was built in association with Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). The new pedal sanitizer facility was inaugurated at the medical college on Tuesday. Government dental college principal Dr Jolly Mary Varghese, KGMOA president Nisha M Das, secretary Dr Randeep, house surgeons association members Dr Ashwant Ajay, Dr Thomas Nixon also attended the function. The team had earlier developed a Walk-in Sample Kiosk (WISK) and aerosol boxes and a robot, ‘Sanitiser Kunjappan 2.0’ that could disinfect Covid-19 wards without human assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-fight-covid-with-your-foot/articleshow/75584262.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Agra||Woman cop from Kanpur succumbs to Covid-19 in Agra; death toll mounts to 18||AGRA: Just three days after giving birth to a girl, a woman constable from Kanpur succumbed to Covid-19 in Agra on Wednesday. The woman, 27, was posted in Bilhaur police station of Kanpur district. On April 1, she had come to her in-law’s home in Ishwar Nagar area of Agra on a maternity leave. After her delivery at Lady Lyall Hospital on May 2, she was discharged. But her sample was collected for the Covid-19 test. On Wednesday morning, her condition deteriorated as she was unable to breathe properly and was having cold and fever. The family took her to a private hospital but she was not given admission there. Later, at 12:30pm, she breathed her last. Hours later, the health department alerted the family that her test result has been found Covid-19 positive. After which her husband, who works in private finance company, left the victim’s body in their car and waited for health department team to arrive. A health department team took away her body. While her husband, the newly-born girl and mother-in-law were quarantined and their samples were collected. The sanitisation of the residential area too was kick-started. Arvind Kumar, SHO of Sikandra, said, “The woman's husband informed about her death to police. The health department is now doing its work.” On May 2, the victim's father-in-law, Randhir Singh, had succumbed in Delhi due to liver ailment. However, his sample was tested negative. Meanwhile, the district administration confirmed that 57-year-old constable, who succumbed in SN medical College on May 1, was tested positive. Identified as Satish Chandra, the deceased policeman’s family would be paid Rs 50lakh compensation by state government, as he was posted in Covid-19 duty. According to sources, till Wednesday, 48 UP policemen were tested positive, out of which two succumbed in Agra. In Agra, the total Covid-19 death tally has now risen to 18 and with 655 positives. Meanwhile, an inmate of the Central Jail in Agra was tested positive for Covid-19. After the revelation, at least 12 inmates’ samples were collected, as they came in the contact of positive patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-cop-from-kanpur-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-agra-death-toll-mounts-to-18/articleshow/75585865.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt sets the ball rolling for kharif farming||Bhubaneswar: The state government has stepped up efforts to ensure a smooth start to agricultural activities for the kharif season. During a review meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed officials to provide seeds and agricultural equipment to the farmers. “We have started the process for kharif season well in advance. There is absolutely no restrictions on agriculture and allied activities. We have also directed district agriculture officers to ensure availability of adequate seeds and fertilisers,” said agriculture secretary Saurabh Garg. Instructions have also been issued for free movement of labourers to be engaged in agricultural activities. Nodal officers have been appointed for all the 30 districts to monitor smooth operations. To ensure adequate cash among the farmers, the state government has set a target to disburse crop loan worth Rs 7,500 crore to nearly 20 lakh farmers through cooperative banks. Agriculture department sources said harvesting of Rabi crop for both paddy and non-paddy varieties is going on smoothly. All arrangements are also in place at the mandis for procurement of paddy and non-paddy crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-kharif-farming/articleshow/75585876.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Managing hotspots is key to ‘blunted peak’: AIIMS director||New Delhi: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Thursday that if the Covid-19 hotspots are managed properly, India may witness a ‘blunted peak’. “It means that we will not have huge spike as has been witnessed in the West. The peak may be more flat with cases subsequently coming down over the next few weeks,” Dr Guleria said. The US and the UK, where new Covid-19 cases are on the decline, had witnessed sharp spike with over 10,000 cases being reported daily. India has so far witnessed maximum 3,600 new cases in a single day. The AIIMS director said aggressive action in hotspots and community participation can help limit the rise in cases to 3,000 to 4,000 only. “There have been many predictions based on mathematical modelling. Some of them suggested the peak might come by April-end. They were proved wrong. Some studies suggested the peak would come in May. It seems highly unlikely now. Similarly, some studies suggested peak could occur in June-July. I don’t know if that would prove to be true either,” he added. According to Dr Guleria, modelling data to predict the peak of Covid-19 often doesn’t take variables into considerations. “Due to the lockdown, the growth in number of Covid-19 cases has been slow. Also, most new cases are being recorded from hotspots. If they are managed properly, we may see a blunted peak,” the AIIMS director told TOI. He was clarifying his remarks to a news agency that seemed to suggest that the peak could come in June and July in India leading to concern among public. It was one of the most trending topics on social media as well. Dr Guleria said the number of Covid-19 patients requiring ICU support in India is approximately one per cent of all cases, which is very low. “Somehow we are fighting the disease in a much better way compared with the affected population in other countries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/managing-hotspots-is-key-to-blunted-peak-aiims-director/articleshow/75611496.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha sends back 1500 migrants to their home states||Bhubaneswar: The state government has so far sent back around 1,500 migrant workers stranded in different temporary shelters to their home states by bus. Most of the labourers are from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Labour commissioner N Thirumala Naik has been designated as the state nodal officer to facilitate movement of migrant workers to their home states. Nearly 90,000 migrant workers from different states and districts within the state, who were stranded due to the lockdown, were provided shelter in temporary camps. “After the state government allowed inter-state movement of migrants, nearly 43,000 workers have moved to their worksites. For others, who want to go back to their states, we have been allowing them in coordination with authorities of their home states,” said an official in the state labour department. The state government has prepared a standard operating procedure to send back these migrant workers. The stranded migrant workers, who want to travel back have been asked to contact the Shramik Sahayata helpline number (18003456703) or WhatsApp (7008110717). All collectors and municipal commissioners have been asked to obtain prior approval of their counterparts from recipient states before departure of any bus carrying the migrant workers from their districts. The collectors and municipal commissioners have been authorised to issue transit passes for road journey by bus or vans. For easier logistics, the state government has asked them to divide the returnees in groups according to their districts and blocks while boarding buses/vans. Screening of all the migrant workers is a mandatory exercise before allowing them to go to their home states. The state government on Wednesday increased food expenses of migrant workers from different states living in different temporary camps from Rs 60 a day to Rs 120. Special relief commissioner P K Jena has written to all collectors in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-sends-back-1500-migrants-to-their-home-states/articleshow/75585888.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||75 BSF personnel test positive for Covid, 2 die||New Delhi: As many as 75 personnel, or more than three-fourths of the 94-strong company of BSF’s 126 battalion which was deployed in Jama Masjid area along with Delhi Police, have tested positive for Covid-19. This update came even as BSF reported the death of two of its Covid-positive personnel in New Delhi and CISF said a head constable had died in Mumbai. With 126 Covid-19 cases added over the past two days, BSF has overtaken CRPF both in terms of number of Covid-19 deaths and positive cases. As on Thursday, BSF had reported two deaths and 193 Covid-positive personnel, two of whom have recovered. In comparison, CRPF has reported 162 Covid-19 positive personnel so far (of which one is dead and two have recovered), ITBP 82 (all active cases in Delhi) and CISF 33 cases (of which one died on Thursday). BSF on Thursday announced the death of two personnel from Covid-19, including one who was already critically ill with a kidney ailment and contracted Covid-19 while visiting super-speciality clinics for treatment. He succumbed at a Delhi hospital after suffering multiple organ failure. A 46-year-old BSF personnel who died on May 4, tested positive after a Covid-19 test was run on his body prior to post-mortem. The result of the test came only on Wednesday. A CISF head constable deployed at Mumbai airport, who had tested positive a day ago, died in hospital on Thursday. The total active cases in CISF are 32, spread across Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. ITBP reported 82 Covid-19 positive cases as on May 7, all in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/75-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-2-die/articleshow/75611519.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Police play KCR video to stop migrant exodus||Hyderabad: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao promised to run 40 trains a day for a week to ensure safe passage of migrant workers to their native states, Telangana top police brass on Wednesday decided to circulate KCR’s appeal (made in Hindi) urging migrants to stay back now that construction work and industrial activity have resumed. This comes just a day after a train with 1,240 labourers left for Bihar. Sources said office of director general of police M Mahendar Reddy instructed commissioners and district superintendents of police to share the video among workers. “The instructions were that KCR’s video must be shared in migrant workers’ WhatsApp groups. We will go to function halls where workers have been put up and play the video. This is being done to convince them to stay back,’’ sources in police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-play-kcr-video-to-stop-migrant-exodus/articleshow/75586807.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 7, 2020||Chennai||HC refuses to stay liquor sale; asks govt to ration supply||Chennai:The Madras high court on Wednesday refused to stay reopening of Tasmac liquor shops acrossTamil Nadu on May 7. However, it directed the government to implement rationing by permitting purchase of only one bottle of liquor (750 ml) per person a day, if payment is made by cash. A special division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana directed the state to add the option to make online payments to prevent crowding at retail liquor shops. To encourage digital payment already available in some outlets, people making online payments can buy two bottles a day, the court said. “Though it is submitted that digital payment facility for purchase of liquor is available in only some of the shops, we are of the opinion that to avoid unnecessary malpractice of overcharging through cash payments and to encourage digital payment, we direct that payments be made through approved e-payment applications like RuPay, Bhim, Google Pay, accessbile to all smartphone users and presumably, Tasmac outlet managers,” the court said. This apart, the court has also directed the government to ensure strict implementation of all appropriate rules notified by the state, including maintenance of social distancing at shops. The bench passed the order after the Tamil Nadu government ruled out possibility of liquor sale through alternative modes like online. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas seeking to quash the May 4 government order that Tasmac retail outlets will reopen for sales from May 7 across the state (Chennai excluded later).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-stay-liquor-sale-asks-govt-to-ration-supply/articleshow/75586801.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||1.5L beneficiaries added to state food security scheme||Bhubaneswar: Around 1.5 lakh new beneficiaries of over 54,000 families have been covered under the state food security scheme (SFSS) during the ongoing lockdown period as part of the government’s move to ensure food security for all. All the new beneficiaries are eligible to get five kg of wheat or rice per person/month at Rs 1 under the SFSS and other benefits provided by the Centre and state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The new beneficiaries have been added as per the state government’s decision to include five lakh new beneficiaries under the SFSS. The district-wise target has been set accordingly. So far, we have added 1.5 lakh beneficiaries. We are reviewing the situation every Friday,” a senior government official said. With the addition of the 1.5 lakh new beneficiaries of 54,000 families, altogether 95 lakh families have so far been covered under the national and state food security schemes. State food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain said the state government’s key focus is to ensure food security of all persons during the lockdown. “Our chief minister has directed us to ensure that not a single person remains hungry during the lockdown. Our department is leaving no stone unturned to ensure food for all. The doorstep delivery of PDS goods too has been ensured by the department,” Swain said. Earlier, the state government had announced to provide advance ration of three months (April/June) to all the beneficiaries of the food security scheme apart from a financial assistance of Rs 1,000. So far, nearly 92 lakh beneficiaries have received advance ration and the financial assistance of Rs 1,000 each. Similarly, under the Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the food security beneficiaries have been receiving five kg of rice per head for three months and a kg of pulses per family for three months, free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/1-5l-beneficiaries-added-to-state-food-security-scheme/articleshow/75585916.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||Four-year-old girl raped in Sambhal, youth arrested||BAREILLY: In a gruesome incident, a four-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a Sambhal village and found abandoned in a field. Her father and brother, who were returning home after collecting fodder, found her bleeding and raised an alarm, following which villagers rushed to the spot. Police said the girl was admitted at the community health centre in Chandausi and they arrested the accused. Station house officer (SHO) of Chandausi police station inspector Dharmpal Singh said the accused is a neighbour of the victim. “An FIR under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant section of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the accused. The girl’s condition is now stable and she is being provided treatment at CHC,” said the SHO. According to police, the girl was playing outside her home when the accused lured her with candies and took her to the field, while her mother was busy with daily chores and the father and elder brother had gone to collect fodder. “The girl’s father spotted her lying unconscious and bleeding profusely in the field when he was on the way home with fodder. Upon hearing their screams, villagers reached the crime scene and launched a manhunt to catch the accused who was hiding in a nearby field,” said the SHO. Villagers roughed up the accused and also informed the police. Meanwhile, some villagers and the father rushed the girl to the CHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-year-old-girl-raped-in-sambhal-youth-arrested/articleshow/75585907.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||With 4 cases, Jalore getsvirus scare from migrants||JODHPUR: After being in the green zone status for long since the outbreak of Covid-19, Jalore reported four cases on Wednesday. Three of the infected had come to Jalore from Gujarat’s Surat, while the fourth, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), came here after she was transferred from Sikar district two days ago. According to an official, two of the three locals — one male and one female — belong to Virana village in Sayla subdivision while the third is from Raithal village in Ahor. The three are migrant workers and had come from Surat district, a corona hotspot. “Besides, an ANM, who was transferred to Jalore from Sikar district two days ago, also tested positive. She had not been given charge as a precaution,” said the official. With this alarming development, the threat of a spurt in cases looms large in Jalore, which received a large number of migrants from other states, including corona hotspots. Swinging into action, the district administration has taken containment measures in concerned areas and started tracing contact history of all the positive cases. It may be noted that Jalore and Sirohi, the two southern districts of Rajasthan, had continued to maintain a zero positive case status since the outbreak. But with Jalore reporting positive cases, all eyes are on Sirohi, which turned into a major transit point for migrant workers and received a large number of them from Gujarat and other southern districts. Given the massive influx of migrants, the administration of both the districts will have to ramp up screening as well as sample collection of suspects. Besides this, they have to ensure keeping these migrants in home quarantine. This will be challenging for both district administrations, especially in the wake of consistent reports of violation of rules by migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-4-cases-jalore-getsvirus-scare-from-migrants/articleshow/75587608.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||After 44 dry days, increase in prices no dampener for buyers||Hyderabad: Hundreds of thirsty tipplers, who crowded the liquor shops in the city on Wednesday, were caught unaware of the price hike declared by the Telangana government on liquor. The Telangana chief minister declared 16% hike on the existing rates and 11% hike on cheap liquor brands. However, there were hordes of people who stood in serpentine queues outside liquor stores across the city, stoically bearing both the inflated rates and long hours in the blazing sun to be able to go home with a bottle or two. “Even if they are selling at a higher price, people will buy alcohol. After almost one and a half month, they are allowing wine shops to open. The government is going to generate a lot of revenue from sale of liquor. There is no point complaining about the high price,” said M Naresh, a private employee from Ameerpet. High prices failed to dampen the spirits of tipplers who continued to purchase liquor even though some outlets accepted only cash payments. Buyers were ready to dole out any amount to get their hands on some bottles. Beer bottles, for instance, cost Rs 30 more. “I don’t know why they have hiked the price. I am just happy that the government has opened the liquor stores,” said a customer at a wine shop at East Marredpally. Many standalone liquor stores declined to issue receipts as they did brisk business on day 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-44-dry-days-increase-in-prices-no-dampener-for-buyers/articleshow/75587612.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi civic official claims poor corpse management, writes to hospitals||NEW DELHI: Several dead body management guidelines issued by the health ministry for coronavirus positive patients or suspected cases are being flouted in the national capital, a senior corporation official has claimed. In a letter to the Covid-designated hospitals, the senior health officer from South Delhi Municipal Corporation under whose jurisdiction the Punjabi Bagh cremation facility falls, has highlighted many violations in the standard operating procedure when bodies are sent for cremation. On Monday, the bodies of corona patients were left in the open which triggered panic at the cremation ground, the letter stated. “Suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patient’s bodies are being sent without proper booking and by providing only one staff with the hearse van for assistance. That one staff member is also not well-trained and often refuses to shift bodies to CNG furnace platform,” the official claimed. The letter also alleged that the hospital staff were taking help of the attendants for disposal of the corona infected bodies which was not as per the SOPs issued by the secretary, health and family welfare. Heath officials have also requested the hospitals to contact the coordinators of the Punjabi Bagh facility at least one hour before sending the ambulance, since the CNG furnace takes minimum one and a half hours to cremate one body. Meanwhile, municipal corporations of Delhi have started sensitising staff of cremation grounds so that they are ready in case more Covid-19 related deaths occur in near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-official-claims-poor-corpse-management-writes-to-hospitals/articleshow/75611539.cms||Paras Singh
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl officers for border dists; no entry or exit from Hyd||Hyderabad: With a spurt in coronavirus cases being reported from Kurnool and Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed all officials to appoint special officers in the border districts of Telangana and ensure that nobody enters or exits the state. He also directed officials not to allow anyone to exit Hyderabad or allow outsiders in the city. The CM held a high-level review meeting on Wednesday on containment of Covid-19 and instructed officials to implement strict regulation in Hyderabad and its surrounding areas, where 66% of the cases were reported. “The situation in the state is under control except in Hyderabad and its surrounding districts,” the CM said.. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-officers-for-border-dists-no-entry-or-exit-from-hyd/articleshow/75586817.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Inebriated man falls off terrace, dies||BAREILLY: The reopening of liquor shops after almost a month and a half continues to create ripples. In Moradabad, an inebriated 30-year-old labourer died when he stumbled and fell from the terrace of his rented home, where he was hosting a booze party with his cousins. Chhavi Lal, a native of Madhya Pradesh, is survived by his wife and three children. His landlord claimed when he fell from the rooftop, he was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead. Police said Chhavi Lal had been living on rent with his wife Shakuntala and three children at Gyanpur locality under Majhola police station. His landlord, Ranvijay Singh, said that since the lockdown had been imposed, Lal had not left his home. “On Monday, after liquor shops opened, Lal rushed to buy some liquor and called over his two cousins to have a booze party on the terrace. At around 12.30 midnight, by which time they were all highly inebriated, Chhavi Lal accidently slipped and fell,” said Singh, adding they immediately rushed him to hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead. When informed, police reached the hospital and sent his body for post-mortem. Station house officer of Majhola, inspector Rakesh Kumar Singh, said Lal had come from Madhya Pradesh as a seasonal labourer for sugarcane harvesting. “Seasonal labourers arrive here from other districts during the sugarcane crushing season. Lal, a native of Kothi Garhi village in Shahdol district of MP, had also come with his family and five cousins for seasonal work. The body has been sent for autopsy and further course of action will be decided once the post-mortem report arrives. Prima facie, it seems to be an accident,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inebriated-man-falls-off-terrace-dies/articleshow/75585918.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||State forest department sends high-level team to probe straying tiger’s death from tranquilizers||PILIBHIT: Taking serious cognizance of media reports and outcry of wildlife enthusiasts over the death, allegedly due to negligence, of a 5-year-old adult male tiger during an operation to rescue the animal after it had strayed into Jari village under Gajraula police station on Monday evening, the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey, sent a high-level three-member team to Pilibhit on Wednesday to probe the circumstances under which the animal had died. “The team is headed by principal chief conservator of forest (Project Tiger) P K Sharma, and includes senior IFS officer Ramesh Pandey and Kanpur zoo vet R K Singh as members. Within a week’s time, they will file their report for perusal by the state administration. Further action will follow,” said PCCF (wildlife), Pandey. The autopsy report by the Centre for Wildlife Conservation, Management and Disease Surveillance at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, has confirmed that the tiger’s death was caused by traumatic injuries in his thoracic cavity that caused excessive internal bleeding. The autopsy report also confirmed subcutaneous contusions and hemorrhage on the dorsum of his neck, shoulder and thoracic wall, which had superficial presence of maggots. In addition to many other internal injuries, the chambers of its heart had blood clots. The tiger’s toxicological report is awaited. “The injuries described in the autopsy clearly indicate that the tiger had been brutally beaten by humans, and that the maggoted wounds were at least 7-10 days old,” said B M Arora, president of Indian zoos and wildlife veterinarians. “We’ve inspected the spot and collected important information about the tiger’s death. Our focus is on finding how the tiger was victimised with brutal beating, and why Pilibhit Tiger Reserve officials and their field force had failed to trace the injured tiger in the wild, or identify its assailants,” said P K Sharma, in-charge of the inquiry team. In response to whether the crippled tiger had overdosed on tranquilizers after two darts were injected into its body in quick succession, the officials said they will also examine the volume of tranquilizing substance used on the animal and whether it was excessive, given that it was injured. Notably, the tiger had died within 15 minutes after it had been hit with two tranquilizing darts by government veterinary officer S K Rathaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/state-forest-dept-sends-high-level-team-to-probe-straying-tigers-death-from-tranquilizers/articleshow/75585930.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Agra||Agra: Turned away by 6 private hospitals, newborn suffering from fever dies||AGRA: Turned away by six private hospitals, an eight-day-old girl who was suffering from fever died on way to the district hospital in the city on Tuesday night. The child's father, a small-scale shoe manufacturer, claimed that for 10 hours they hopped from one hospital to the other with the sick child but no one provided treatment to the infant. This is the fourth case in the past 15 days in which a patient died while running from one hospital to the other. Twenty-nine-year-old Usha, wife of Manjeet Sutal, gave birth to the girl child on April 27 at a private hospital. The couple resides in Kazi Para, under the jurisdiction of Rakabhanj police station. Manjeet said the child was born healthy but on Monday it suffered from mild fever. "As the fever rose, I took the child to a nearby clinic where I was asked to take her to a 'major' hospital. I initially took my daughter to four hospitals located on MG Road, Pratapura and Shahganj, but all of them refused to provide treatment to my child," said Manjeet. "On Monday evening, one of my friends told me that a private doctor who has a clinic near the Maruti estate crossing was attending to patients. I rushed to that hospital, but the staff made me wait for over one hour. After a checkup, the doctor told me to take the child to some other hospital as it does not have the required staff and facilities. Then I took my daughter to a multi-specialty hospital on Fatehabad Road. Here, the staffers told me that the doctors are not available," he added. “My well-wishers had advised me against taking my daughter to SN Medical College or the district hospital as Covid-19 patients are being treated in these facilities. As my daughter was losing her battle, I decided to take her to the district hospital. On the way, I stopped at a private hospital as my child had stopped responding around 9:30 pm, but she was declared brought dead.” Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats, said, “I have not received any formal complaint in the matter. The family members of the child should have dialled 108 or 112 helpline number”. In the past 15 days, at least three cases of gross medical negligence have surfaced in Agra where non-Covid-19 patients were denied treatment by private and government hospitals. On April 22, a pregnant woman was denied admission in at least two private hospitals. The women suffered severe pain for over six hours and when she was finally admitted at district woman’s hospital around 9pm, the doctors declared that her child had died in the womb. On April 24, a 12-year-old boy suffering from acute pain in the stomach was turned away by six private hospitals. After exhausting all options, the boy was rushed to SN Medical College where doctors allegedly asked the parents to put the child in the isolation ward meant for Covid-19 patients. “The next day, we again took him to a private hospital, the sixth one, but the doctors here refused to treat him. We then approached police and the district administration for help. They directed us to go back to SN Medical College, but by then the doctors declared him brought dead,” said Lakhan Singh, the boy's father. On April 29, three private hospitals refused to provide treatment to an eight-month-old baby. When the parents reached SN Medical College, the child died waiting for treatment as the parents were told to do the paperwork first. On April 30, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had issued notice to the Agra district administration after a complaint was filed over the death of two kids and a woman delivering a stillborn after they were allegedly denied treatment by hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/turned-away-by-6-pvt-hospitals-newborn-suffering-from-fever-dies/articleshow/75585926.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 7, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally rises to 667, 35 discharged||AGRA: At least 27 more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district's tally to 667. Also, as many as 35 more patients were declared cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. The new cases include a medicine wholesale dealer in Fuwarra market, a 28-year-old pregnant woman, resident of Paschimpuri locality, and a couple. The remaining cases are related to Lohamandi, Baluganj, Awas Vikas Colony, Jeevani Mandi, Ashok Nagar, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi and Panchkuiyan locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to the health department, out of the 398 active cases in Agra, at least 90 cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 80 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts, while 26 cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. So far, 28 vegetable sellers have also been tested positive in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 269 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. At present, we have 42 active hotspots in the city. These are being closely monitored." Further, directorate of health service in UP, on Wednesday, claimed that total of 12 positive cases were reported in Firozabad district, taking the tally to 177 with 126 active cases. However, district administration claimed that only one corona positive case was confirmed, which took the tally to 168 with 117 active case. The Covid-19 positive patient is a woman - a resident of Madina colony - and she is undergoing dialysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-rises-to-667-35-discharged/articleshow/75585917.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shiv Sena leaders approach chief secretary over confusing orders||PUNE: After two days of chaos and confusion following multiple orders issued by various agencies in city, senior Shiv Sena leaders on Wednesday wrote to state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta asking why his and the civic chief’s orders were not being followed in the city. The leaders further questioned why shops were being closed down within 2-3 hours despite the municipal commissioner allowing outlets to function from 7am-7pm in the non-containment areas. They also raised concerns over restrictions imposed on supply of fuel. The leaders have forwarded the letter to district guardian minister Ajit Pawar. Senior Shiv Sena leader Shyam Deshpande said multiple orders issued by various agencies have created confusion and panic among the citizens. “Pune is probably the only city in the state to have clearly identified the micro-clusters in terms of Covid-19. The municipal commissioner has decided to open areas for economic activities on the basis of the micro-cluster strategy. The civic chief’s orders should be followed by all authoritie,” he said. City Sena chief Sanjay More said all agencies should support the municipal commissioner, “who has come ahead with a positive approach to open the city in a phased manner”. Sena leader Gajanan Tharkude said, “We are not against social distancing norms. We just want an end to the confusing orders.” City Congress chief Ramesh Bagwe, “The citizens and slum dwellers must get necessary items for their daily lives. The civic administration should provide grocery kits and other facilities to these people.” NCP’s Chetan Tupe said there was a failure in terms of planning and those controlling the civic body could not handle the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shiv-sena-leaders-approach-chief-secretary-over-confusing-orders/articleshow/75587614.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rules eased, but spare parts and technicians still hard to find||PUNE: Hundreds of professionals working from home continue to face issues with gadgets as the relaxation in lockdown has failed to ensure repairs in due to poor availability of accessories. While a few service centres for gadgets, including laptops and cellphones, have opened, there is a shortage of spare parts and accessories required for repairs. An educator, Smita Agarwal said, “My students, colleagues and I have all faced a variety of technological challenges since the lockdown began. First I faced issues with the Internet bandwidth at home which I could resolve through an online top-up. Some days into the lockdown, my cat urinated on my laptop due to which the letter “O” on the keyboard became defunct. I could not even start my laptop as the password contained the letter “O” as well. I knew no technician or engineer could repair it due to the lockdown. I watched numerous YouTube videos, took advice from numerous people before taking help of an on-call technician to solve the issue” According to Agarwal, shops dealing in servicing and repairs of gadgets are like essential services.  “If a few technicians could be allowed to function in each area, a lot of problems could be solved,” she said. An engineer from Pune, who has been able to tend to some minor repairs over the last few days, said, “Smaller problems of wiring could be solved but many have faced issues requiring replacement of the motherboard, LCD display or processor. These accessories are not available in the market easily and have to be called in from Mumbai. Sometimes we do stumble upon some accessories at Tapkir Lane, near Dagdusheth Halwai Temple, but that area is in the containment zone and all shops are shut. “ “Due to unavailability of parts, we are not able to help many people,” the engineer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rules-eased-but-spare-parts-technicians-still-hard-to-find/articleshow/75587611.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Men in khaki get an image makeover in Covid season||Berhampur: The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed the new face of police with the men in khaki providing food to migrants passing through Berhampur as well as helping them go home. On Wednesday, they sent 21 labourers from Jharkhand home in a bus. The workers from Garhwa district were working to lay down pipelines for a gas project near Golanthara. Cops stationed at Goshaninuagaon police station came to know about them when they were spotted walking on NH-16 late on Tuesday night. “After inquiry, we came to know that the contractor had given them Rs 500 each and asked them to go home,” said a police officer. “But our personnel arranged a private bus for them at an affordable price and sent them off after providing them breakfast,” said sub-divisional police officer (Berhampur Town) B P Pati. He said around Rs 45,000 was spent on their bus rent and food and the labourers contributed Rs 10,000. Some police officers and people have contributed for their transportation, said the SDPO. On Monday, police arranged three private buses to send 138 labourers from Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh home. Police detained the labourers and informed their respective district administrations to facilitate the travel. They had been under quarantine at a centre in Kanishi for over a month. Similarly, policemen have been deployed at Jagannathpur railway station where the trains carrying migrants from Gujarat and Kerala are arriving. Police personnel are ensuring their transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/men-in-khaki-get-an-image-makeover-in-covid-season/articleshow/75585924.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 7, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: 19-year-old pregnant woman murdered, husband arrested||MADIKERI: A 19-year-old pregnant woman was murdered by her husband in Madikeri town on Wednesday. The woman, Bhagyashree, had married Sahul Hameed (31) of Madikeri in August last year. However, the two registered their marriage at the registrar’s office in Madikeri only on April 29 this year. Bhagyashree also changed her name to Suhan. On Tuesday night, her husband allegedly picked up a fight with her at home. On Wednesday morning, Bhagyashree is said to have called her mother Yashodha (an anganwadi worker) at 8.30 am and according to the statement of Yashodha, Bhagyashree was worried and crying. Following this, Yashodha rushed to her daughter’s house, only to find Bhagyashree‘s body lying on the bed. Bhagyashree’s husband Sahul, who works in a chicken stall in town, wasn’t present when Yashodha entered the house. Yashodha’s cries after seeing her daughter’s body alterted the neighbours, who in turn called police. A complaint was later filed by Yashodha against Sahul. Police have arrested Sahul and are investigating the case. The autopsy of Bhagyashree was conducted and the report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/19-yr-old-pregnant-woman-murdered-husband-arrested/articleshow/75584358.cms||---
May 7, 2020||India||Allow goods traffic between India & Bangladesh: MHA to Bengal||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Wednesday wrote to West Bengal government pointing to its failure to ensure resumption of goods traffic between India and Bangladesh through border crossings falling in the state. Warning that this was violative of MHA lockdown orders issued under the Disaster Management Act and also Article 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution, besides having implications for the country with regard to legally binding international commitments, the ministry asked the state government to allow goods transportation through all Indo-Bangladesh border crossings without any further delay. Directions were given by the home ministry on April 24 to all states to allow cross land border transportation of essential goods through all Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan and Indo-Bangladesh bordere and send a compliance report in this regard. “...I am constrained to say that we have not received the compliance report from the state government of West Bengal. Further, it has been reported that goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh, falling in the state of West Bengal, has still not resumed. As a result, a large number of trucks carrying essential supplies, bound for Bangladesh, are stranded at different border crossing points. A number of drivers of such vehicles, while retuming from Bangladesh, have also not been allowed to cross the border, and are stranded in Bangladesh,” Union Home Secretary A K Bhalla wrote to state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. Bhalla pointed out that new lockdown guidelines issued by the home ministry on May 1 had clearly spelt out that no state/UT shall stop movement of cargo for cross-border land trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. “...the unilateral action on the part of Government of West Bengal to stop the cross land border movement of essential goods would have larger implications for the Indian Government with regard to its legally binding international commitments. This act of the State Government of West Bengal, amounts to violation of the orders issued by MHA under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India,” said the Home Secretary. The state has been directed to allow cross land border transportation through all Indo-Bangladesh borders without any further delay and send the compliance on opening of cross land borders, by Wednesday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allow-goods-traffic-between-india-bangladesh-mha-to-bengal/articleshow/75588764.cms||Bharti Jain
May 7, 2020||Agra||Agra: UPSRTC conductor with Covid-19 dies in government hospital||AGRA: A 58-year-old senior conductor with Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) who was found Covid-19 positive, died on Tuesday night at SN Medical College (SNMC) in Agra. His family alleged he was not provided ventilator support and died due to lack of proper medical treatment. Dujendra Prasad Sharma, who lived in Awadhpuri locality, was diabetic. After he contracted fever, he was admitted to SNMC on April 30, where samples were collected from all patients for Covid-19 tests. On May 2, the results arrived; he had been found negative. His son Vinay Sharma said, “My father was not getting proper treatment at SNMC. His condition kept deteriorating. We managed to shift him to a private hospital in the morning May 3, where he got a bit of relief. Fresh samples were taken for Covid-19 testing at a private lab. On May 4, we come to know he was found positive. In the evening of May 5, my father was shifted back to SNMC, this time to the isolation ward. At around 10.30pm on Tuesday, we came to know he is no more.” UPSRTC regional manager M K Trivedi said, “We are deeply pained by the demise of our employee. He was responsible for all clerical duties at the Idgah depot. We’re with Sharma’s family in their hour of grief. Proceedings for suitable compensation to the family have been initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upsrtc-conductor-with-covid-19-dies-in-govt-hospital/articleshow/75585939.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 7, 2020||Pune||Petrol and diesel for all from 7am to 7pm in Pune, no passes required||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram issued an order on Wednesday allowing petrol and diesel supplies to common citizens without any requirement for pass/ identity cards from 7am to 7pm in all areas, except containment zones in PMC, PCMC, Khadki and Dehu cantonment boards, nagar parishad, nagarpalika and nagar panchayats in Pune district. Restrictions on petrol and diesel supply in rural areas had already been lifted following a green signal for resumption of agriculture and industrial activities. The order, issued by the collector on Wednesday, said that petrol pumps can now supply petrol and diesel to all vehicles between 7am and 7pm without asking for identity cards or passes from vehicle owners. Before Wednesday, petrol and diesel supplies were restricted to only essential service providers in PMC and PCMC. " Supply of petrol and diesel on national highways will also continue within the stipulated time decided by the government," Ram, who is also the Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority told TOI on Wednesday. The Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, on Wednesday sent a letter to the district authorities asking for police protection if the fuel was to be given to people only on the basis of passes or identity cards. "The premise was to let the police certify whom should the fuel be given to. We also requested deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Wednesday to address the matter," the source said. Dealers said that they had started supplying petrol and diesel to all citizens, except in containment zones. They said that the rush would subside from Thursday as by that time many people would have got the fuel for their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-and-diesel-for-all-from-7am-to-7pm-no-passes-required/articleshow/75587618.cms||Neha Madaan
May 7, 2020||Agra||Aligarh, Mathura record 6 each new Covid positive cases||AGRA: Six more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh, while six more got infected in Mathura on Wednesday. According to health department, with inclusion of fresh cases, the total tally of cases has risen to 50, including two deaths, in Aligarh, and 38, with three deaths, in Mathura. Confirming this, Aligarh’s chief development officer, Anunay Jha, said that four men aged 25, 47, 52 and 72 and a 19-year-old girl and a seven-year-old boy were tested positive. All of them hail from Sarai Hakeem. An area of one kilometre radius has been sealed and only health and sanitation workers, and deliveries of essential items will be allowed. In Mathura, the six persons infected with the disease included an 11-year-old boy. Two more persons, including a man, 26, and a woman, 50, were found positive. Health officials said all of them are contacts of patients who tested positive earlier and are under treatment at isolation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-mathura-record-6-each-new-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/75585931.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Spraying hope in times of despair||Bhubaneswar: A month ago when the coronavirus fear gripped the state, the Odisha Fire Services was quick to start sanitation drives as a preventive measure. Armed with huge vehicles loaded with sodium hypochlorite solution, they went to the containment zones and other areas of the city and to its outskirts to spray the germicide-cum-antiseptic. The sanitation drive that started on March 31 is still on. Initially, they covered the containment zones of Surya Nagar, Satya Nagar and Bomikhal and slowing brought other risk zones under the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and the Khurda district administration under their drive. “We have already covered different parts of Bhubaneswar, Balianta, Jatni, many quarantine centres, community health centres and primary health centres,” Ramesh Chandra Majhi, deputy fire officer, Bhubaneswar, said. Around 150 firefighters are on the job on a rotational basis. Teams of five to six personnel with a vehicle fan out in different areas with the day’s itinerary that could include streets and markets, etc. “We start by 6am every day and return very late in the evening. There are no specific duty hours. We manage to grab a bite on the go,” Majhi, who is also the nodal-cum-field officer of the sanitation drive, said. Majhi said the training that the fire personnel undergo helps them handle such hazardous tasks and for them the call of duty is above the fear of contracting the infection. “We are happy and proud to serve the state in this hour of need,” Basant Mohanty, a leading fireman, said. For their safety, they wear personal protection equipment (PPE) that consists of a full body suit, helmet, goggles, mask, gloves and gum boots. They are also protective about their families back home. “I have isolated myself from my family. My room and utensils are separate. I do my own chores and take all necessary precautions to protect my family, who are very encouraging,” Majhi said. Amid the rigours of maintaining a work-life balance in this hour of crisis, what keeps the fire services personnel going is people’s encouragement. “They often wave at us from rooftops and balconies,” Majhi smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/spraying-hope-in-times-of-despair/articleshow/75585932.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T providing adequate PPE kits: Medical JAC||Hyderabad: The Medical Joint Action Committee of Telangana on Wednesday said that the state has been providing adequate Personal Protection ( PPE) kits and other amenities to all medical staff in the state. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, committee president Dr B Ramesh said they have not faced any problem in rendering their services during the Covid-19 outbreak. The members said that it was unfortunate that a group of private doctors had complained to Inter State Ministerial Committee about the conditions of doctors in the state. They said state government was making all efforts to contain the disease spread and that it has been successful in doing so. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-providing-adequate-ppe-kits-medical-jac/articleshow/75586825.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Surat headache for Ganjam as 4 from Guj textile city test positive||Berhampur: Surat has become a cause of serious concern for the state government with all four Covid-19 positive cases from Ganjam till Wednesday being the migrant workers, who returned from the textile town of Gujarat. Officials said the last one to have tested positive for the virus is an 18-year-old youth.Worried about the sudden spurt of the positive cases in the district, the government has deputed a two-member team of health officials to supervise the surveillance and containment measures. The team members are director of family welfare Bijay Kumar Panigrahy and scientist of the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in Bhubaneswar, Jaysingh Khatri. Ganjam, which maintained the green zone status till May 2, entered into the orange zone after two Odia workers from Surat became the first ones to have tested positive for the disease in the district. In the last four days, the number of Covid-19 patients in the district has gone up to four. All the four patients were, however, put up in institutional quarantine centres in different places before their swab samples were tested, following which their travel history was released. The affected persons belong to Kokolanda (Belaguntha), Tamanada (Jagannath Prasad) and Sriram Nagar (Buguda). Sources said the administration is trying to trace all those they came in contact with. The district has seen an influx of thousands of migrant labourers daily from hotspot states like Gujarat, Kerala and Karnataka by buses and trains. While over 20,000 labourers have already reached the district, about 3,300 are expected to arrive in three trains from Surat on Wednesday.“With all the four positive cases in the district being related to Surat and more migrant workers from the Gujarat city heading towards the district, we are worried,” a senior officer said. He, however, added that the district administration has taken containment measures to arrest the spread of the disease. The official said this apart, a rapid response team consisting of the professors of pulmonary medicine, anesthesiology, microbiology and community medicine of MKCG Medical College and Hospital here, has been formed to strengthen surveillance, contact tracing, testing as well as the medicine preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/surat-headache-for-ganjam-as-4-from-guj-textile-city-test-positive/articleshow/75585942.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||25 of Gujarat’s 28 deaths reported from Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Wednesday was the third straight day with 25 or more Covid-19 deaths in the city. In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, Ahmedabad reported 25 deaths. Likewise, it was the fourth straight day with more than 250 fresh cases reported in the city, or 10 cases every hour. Ahmedabad district cumulatively recorded 291 cases including 15 from outside AMC limits. In 24 hours, the state reported 380 fresh Covid-19 cases, the second highest daily tally for the state, a shade below the 441 cases reported on May 5. Of the 28 deaths in the state, 25 were from Ahmedabad and while there were one each in Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Sabarkantha. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), on Wednesday said that the number of persons to have recovered from Covid-19 in the state had reached 1,500 with 119 patients discharged in the past 24 hours. “A fortnight ago, the recovery rate was 7.43% which has now improved to 22%,” she said. “Our death rate is also 5.8%. It means that 94% of the patients recover. Thus, we request people not to panic,” she said. The state tested 5,559 people on Wednesday through pooling. Gujarat has so far tested 95,191 persons. Ravi said that the state has enlisted the services of medical experts from the private sector to see patients at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. “We are implementing the latest research and innovations in the world for treatment of patients,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/25-of-states-28-deaths-reported-from-ahmedabad/articleshow/75587011.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Agra||Tablighi Jamaat: Two Sri Lankans jailed for violation of visa norms||AGRA: Two individuals from Sri Lanka, who were also members of the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ), were arrested from a mosque in Aligarh and sent to jail for "violation of visa norms". According to SP (crime) Arvind Kumar, the duo had come to Aligarh after attending the Markaj event in Delhi. Earlier, they were kept in quarantine inside the mosque. As they had come to India on a tourist visa, and had indulged in promoting religious activities in violation of the Foreigners Act 1946, they were booked and sent to jail. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, city magistrate Vineet Kumar Singh said that the duo were booked along with 14 other Jamaatis, who were hiding in mosques. But, they did not take part in the Delhi event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tj-two-sri-lankans-jailed-for-violation-of-visa-norms/articleshow/75585944.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bengaluru||56,000 want to enter Karnataka; only 5,000 passes issued||BENGALURU: Around 56,000 people from Karnataka, who have been stranded in other parts of the country, have applied for passes to return to the state. However, the state government had approved only 5,000 applications by Wednesday evening. Senior bureaucrats said the government has adopted a graded approach to contain the spread of virus. IAS officer Rajkumar Khatri, nodal officer for movement of stranded people from outside states/UTs to Karnataka, said approving applications as and when received will lead to chaos at border checkposts. “As of now, permission has been granted to 5,000 people. We’ll continue to issue passes and take steps to avoid issues at checkposts,” he added. According to officials, on Wednesday by 1.30pm, 56,632 applications, mainly from south Indian states, were received. Some of them include high-risk states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Those who have arranged own transport will be stamped as they enter the state and will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. Sources said DGP and IGP Praveen Sood on Tuesday issued directions to district heads to clear all applications. More passes are likely to be issued in coming days. The health department has asked the district authorities to ensure facilities for health screening, water supply, food, temporary shelter and toilets at entry points. The symptomatic patients will be taken to designated covid health centre or hospital of the bordering district depending on their medical condition. Those travelling to rural parts will be kept in institutional quarantine while urban returnees can be quarantined at their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/56k-want-to-enter-ktaka-only-5k-passes-issued/articleshow/75586204.cms||Kiran Parashar
May 7, 2020||Nagpur||SECR upgrades railwaytracks during lockdown||Nagpur: The lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) with the engineering department carrying out track maintenance works for over 1,200km in the last one month. From March 24 to May 4, the division, from Itwari to Durg, carried out track works with various machines. “We did plain track tamping for 415km with different track machines. It included correction of alignment and correction of longitudinal and cross levels, besides packing under the sleepers,” said SECR officials. They added that the turnout tamping was also done. Machines were also used to achieve a proper level, particularly at the crossing portion. “We did ballast profiling for 138km and track stabilization work in 92km. We also lifted 5,051 pieces of rails and sleepers from the section and stacked them at the proper place with the help of machines,” they said. “During the routine course of time, getting blocks for various works is difficult due to the continuous movement of mail/express trains. But due to the lockdown, we got 90% space to complete these works,” SECR officials said. Defective rails and welds have been removed and now Nagpur division is free from these defects. The trackmen also renewed CMS crossings and ballast has been trained out besides removing of dilapidated channel sleepers and defective glued joints have been replaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-upgrades-railwaytracks-during-lockdown/articleshow/75564411.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Marginal dip in fresh coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After the city reported its highest one-day tally of 336 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, there was a marginal dip in numbers, with 291 fresh cases reported on Wednesday Shilaj and Lad Society are new areas where the virus has emerged. In the district, Dholka registered 14 fresh cases in a single day. In Satellite, cases were reported from Shasvat Tower and Aashapura Bhavan near Avani Row Houses. A fresh case was registered from Bhavi Apartments near Lad Society in Nehrunagar. The western part of the city now has 559 cases with 340 cases in Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas, while 115 and 104 cases each were reported the North and South West Zones in areas such as Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba among others. The western part of the city saw active cases increase by 51 on Wednesday. Of the 25 deaths in the city due to Covid-19, four were at SVP, 18 at Civil Hospital and one at Sola Civil Hospital. Ghatlodia Naranpura, Jivraj Park and Vejalpur continued to report cases. In the western part of the city, Akhbarnagar and Nirnaynagar were the new areas to report cases. On Wednesday, the South West Zone (Sarkhej, Maktampura, Jodhpur and Vejalpur wards) saw 115 cases registered against 109 on Tuesday. The North West Zone, which includes the wards of Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota Bodakdev and Chandkheda, reported 104 new cases against 89 on Tuesday. In the the district, 15 fresh cases were reported of which 14 were in Dholka town and one was in Viramgam. The district administration began a massive disinfection drive in the containment zone in Bopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marginal-dip-in-fresh-cases-in-city/articleshow/75586992.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Toddler killed, 4 injured after car rams stationary truck||MANGALURU: A toddler was killed and four people were injured after a car they were travelling in rammed a stationary truck near Ujire, on Tuesday night. The incident took place around 11pm. The deceased is nine-month-old Madhavi, the daughter of Pramod, a resident of Panyalu Ujire. Pramod, his wife Ashwini and relatives Mamatha and Swati, have been grievously injured in the incident, and are being treated in a private hospital. According to police, the victims had gone to a relative’s house at Vamadapadavu. On reaching Ujire, Pramod wanted to stop the car beside the road, but failed to notice the stationary truck. The car was completely mangled as a result of the impact. A case has been registered at the Dharmasthala police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/toddler-killed-4-injured-after-car-rams-stationary-truck/articleshow/75584405.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Liquor stores within 500m of restricted zones closed||Pune: The prospects of finding a wine shop in the neighbourhood have become thinner. The excise department on Wednesday closed all wine shops located within 500m from the 69 micro containments zones in the Pune city and 21 containment zones in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. The department was acting on orders given by the Pune district collector, after it came to his notice people from containment zones were heading to the nearest wine shops. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Customers from the restricted and containment areas are flocking to nearby liquor stores. So, there could be a possibility of spread of Covid-19 from the containment zones to other nearby areas. As per authority obtained under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, we have issued an order directing closure of all types of excise licenses, like wine shops and distributorships, falling within the 500m area from the containment zones in Pune district.”A senior excise department official said all shops within the 500m area from containments zones were already closed by the excise department till Wednesday afternoon. “By Thursday, we would get the exact figure on the number of wine shops functioning in Pune. We got to know on Wednesday the border areas of micro containment zones in the PMC and containment zones in PCMC limits. We then closed all wine shops in the regions, stretching from border areas of containment zones till a distance of 500m,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/liquor-stores-within-500m-of-restricted-zones-closed/articleshow/75587624.cms||Neha Madaan
May 7, 2020||Vadodara||More than 4,000 UP, Bihar migrants leave Vadodara||VADODARA: In the last three days, more than 4,000 migrants including labourers, their families and also students have left Vadodara through special trains heading for their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Another special train left for Lucknow in the wee hours of Wednesday from Vadodara railway station, while a train to Bihar’s Katihar district, first such train from Vadodara, left in the afternoon. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal coordinated with officials of Gujarat and Bihar for the special train through which 1,270 migrants including five kids and other passengers left for Katihar. Officials said that since permission for travel to Bihar’s capital Patna was expected to take more time, the decision to run the train till Katihar was taken. Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt who flagged off the train said that students of M S University who were stuck in Vadodara have also been included as passengers in the train. “MSU too made good arrangements for our stay at the hostel campus,” said Anisha Mishra, a student, who was excited about finally reaching her home. Another fellow student, Chandan Podar, echoed the same sentiment and said that despite the good arrangements made in the varsity, they wanted to return home as their worried families were constantly calling them up to ensure their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-than-4000-up-bihar-migrants-leave-vadodara/articleshow/75584092.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP district in tizzy after Aarogya app shows two Covid-19 negative cases as ‘positive’||PILIBHIT: After the use of Aarogya Setu application was strictly enforced in Noida and Greater Noida, another UP district became a talking point on Wednesday after the app showed two individuals who had earlier tested Covid-19 negative as "positive". The local police, in a tizzy, managed to trace the two individuals of Pilibhit district. But, the local administration's concerns grew as one of them was detected near district magistrate's (DM) residence. Sources said DM Vaibhav Shrivastav has spoken to higher authorities in this regard. The matter was also referred to experts of National Informatics Center, the sources said. “The police have traced both the persons. Of them, one is a woman. The officials of health department were directed to collect their samples and sent for fresh testing,” the DM said. “Authorities are also trying to find out whether the app alert was due to any incorrect information fed by them on their Covid related status. If so, we will have to take action,” the DM added. Additional chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said one of the two – a male member - was admitted to a private hospital in Bareilly around 56 km from Pilibhit, on April 30 for some surgery. On being asked as to how the Setu app showed their location within a 500m radius of the DM’s residence and a km away from the officer’s colony, the DM said the man may have left his mobile phone at his Pilibhit home. The woman was found to be a resident of Amaria tehsil about 26 km from the district headquarters. Regarding her Pilibhit location shown by the app alert, superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit said that it was a technical glitch and would need cyber or software experts’ attention. Notably, the Aarogya Setu is a mobile app developed by the Centre to reportedly connect health services with the people during the Covid outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-district-in-tizzy-after-aarogya-app-shows-two-covid-negative-cases-as-positive/articleshow/75585943.cms||Keshav Agarwal
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: IT couple live stream wedding on an app for friends and family to watch||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The lockdown dashed their hopes of a grand wedding, but not their dreams of being united in holy matrimony. IT professionals Mridul Chatterjee and Nancy Panjwani got married on Tuesday at Pimple Nilakh in a simple ceremony attended by a few, but watched over by friends and families from across the globe. Both of them spent three years convincing their respective families to let them marry. Finally, they received the green signal last December and the wedding was scheduled on April 17 in Jabalpur. But the lockdown played spoilsport. They overcame the initial disappointment and convinced their parents to allow them to marry at home in Pimple Nilakh on Tuesday in the presence of a few people and used a mobile application to live stream the marriage ceremony to their parents, relatives, friends and colleagues. On Monday night, Chatterjee sent online invitations to his friends in the US, colleagues in Europe and others to witness the live streaming of their wedding. "Our families participated in the wedding rituals through an app. We had a Maharashtrian-style wedding," he said. An elated Panjwani said, "I like any other woman wanted a grand wedding, but had to settle for a simple wedding. It was a memorable experience for all of us." "We plan to hold a get-together for our family members in some months, if the situation improves," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/it-couple-live-stream-wedding-on-an-app-for-friends-and-family-to-watch/articleshow/75587627.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Animals & birds found dead in unexplained circumstances in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Six dogs, four crows, a wild boar and a cat were found dead under unexplained circumstances at Valluvar Nagar in Coonoor here on Wednesday. The carcasses were found scattered around in that locality.District veterinary officials, who inspected the area, suspect poisoning by miscreants. There is a municipal dump yard close to the area.All the six were domestic dogs. The owners said they used to leave them free at nights. When they didn’t find their pets around on Wednesday morning, they went around looking for them, which were found dead in different places.Dr Raja Murali, government veterinarian, told TOI, “The animals and birds were found dead in and around tea bushes at Valluvar Nagar.” According to him, some antisocial elements could have left poultry meat that was laced with poison in the area which the animals and birds would have consumed.“Samples of vital organs from all the animals and birds have been collected and that would be sent to forensic lab in Coimbatore for test. The test results are expected in 10 days. Only then we could ascertain the cause of their death,” Murali said.The carcasses were buried close to the dump yard, the official said. The residents of Valluvar Nagar have lodged a case and an inquiry is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/animals-birds-found-dead-in-unexplained-circumstances-in-ooty/articleshow/75586834.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||1 held for selling hukkah flavors||Hyderabad: The police on Wednesday raided one house at Gachchi Chabutra, Yakuthpura, and arrested one person for selling hukkah flavors illegally, said officials. Police seized Hukka material worth of Rs 1 lakh from his possession and handed over the material to Mirchowk police for further investigation. The accused has been booked under various section of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-held-for-selling-hukkah-flavors/articleshow/75586842.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Agra||Youth shot dead over affair with married woman in Etah||AGRA: A man allegedly shot dead a 23-year-old youth, suspecting that he was having an affair with his wife in Etah district. Amit Bawariya was found dead near his house in Nagla Gada village. According to police, he was shot in his head from close range Victim’s father, Prempal Singh, registered a case against four persons, including the woman with whom the victim was said to be involved in a relationship and her husband. The case was filed at Awagarh police station. Rahul Kumar, superintendent of police (crime) of Etah, said, “Initial investigation suggests that prime accused Ujagar Yadav had suspicion that Amit was having an affair with his wife.” After post-mortem examination, the victim’s body was handed over to his family. No arrest was made by the time of filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-shot-dead-over-affair-with-married-woman-in-etah/articleshow/75585956.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Show-cause notice to teacher for posting against Delhi govt policies||NEW DELHI: A teacher of a Delhi government school was issued a show-cause notice by the education department for allegedly posting politically motivated articles, clips on social media against the Delhi government’s policies. The notice had been issued to Satyendra PP Tripathi, PGT economics, a teacher at the Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Dhaka village in northwest Delhi. Issued on May 5, the notice said, “He posted various politically motivated articles/clips/comments on social media platforms like Facebook against Delhi governments policies like mohalla clinic, mission buniyaad, chunauti, free ration distribution, relaxation in lockdown norms, opening of liquor stores and Azadpur mandi on various occasions. Criticism of the government on public platforms and passing derogatory remarks against it was unbecoming of a government servant.” Invoking the CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964, Tripathi had been asked to explain the reason behind his conduct within five days. The Government School Teachers Association, however, wrote against the notice and said it did not constitute violation of the rules. They also demanded repealing of the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/show-cause-notice-to-teacher-for-posting-against-govt-policies/articleshow/75611582.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||Seven more casualties, all aged above 50, take PMR toll to 127||PUNE: Seven more deaths, all aged above 50, were reported due to Covid-19, while 99 people tested positive in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday. The death toll in the region has now gone up to 127, while the number of positive cases has increased to 2,300, with the city alone having more than 2,000 cases. Among the seven casualties, a 75-year-old woman and a 68-year-old man, both from the Tadiwala Road area, succumbed to the contagion at the Sassoon General Hospital. The woman had co-morbidity conditions, while the man was brought dead to the hospital. A 75-year-old woman from the old Mumbai-Punehigh way died at YCM hospital at Pimpri. Four deaths were reported at various private hospitals. They were a 67-year-old man frm Padmavati. 58-year-old woman from Tadiwala Road, 80-year-old man from Bibvewadi and a 69-year-old man from Yerawada. The positive cases went by 20 on Wednesday as against Tuesday’s 79. Among 2,300 positives, the highest are from Pune (2,026), followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (148) and rural parts (126). The civic health officials said 52 people were discharged on Wednesday, including eight from Sassoon hospital. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said an area each in Moshi near Woodsville, Mohannagar in Chinchwad and Kalewadi was sealed from Wednesday 11pm. Entry and exit of people and vehicles, except those for essential services, from these areas have been banned till further orders. Ten covid-19 positive patients, including a woman, were found in Pimpri Chinchwad city on Wednesday. They were from Moshi, Mohannagar, Yerwada, Pimple Gurav and Chinchwad. When it comes to the number of critical patients, 79 are undergoing treatment in the PMC limits, while one in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal area and eight in the rural parts of Pune, taking the total count of critical patients to 88 in the PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-more-casualties-all-aged-above-50-take-pmr-toll-to-127/articleshow/75587642.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 7, 2020||Agra||UP government appoints nodal officers for Covid-19 control||AGRA: In a bid to further tighten Covid-19 control measures across the state, the state government has appointed nodal officers in all the districts. The nodal officers have been directed to stay in the district for a week. According to a senior official, these officials will look after every aspect of Covid-19 treatment and control, specifically in light of the huge influx of migrant labourers from other states in the coming days. The aim is to curb community spread of Novel Coronavirus. The decision has also been taken in light of several recent reports that patients were not getting proper treatment, both medical and otherwise, in quarantine centres, especially in districts of western Uttar Pradesh. The senior district officials, however, aren’t too happy about the fact that these nodal officers will have a say in every Covid-19 related issue. UP chief secretary Rajendra K Tewari said that additional officers are appointed to strengthen the work and help the district authorities as a lot of migrant workers are expected to return to the state. “These officials will closely work with the district authorities and report to the divisional commissioner of the region,” he said. However, district officials feel that this step is uncalled for. On condition of anonymity, an official said, “We have been toiling day and night and I fail to understand what this step would achieve apart from creating confusion and putting more bureaucratic hurdles.” In Agra region, five nodal officers have been appointed including special secretary secretariat administration Akash Deep, special secretary rural drinking water and Namami Gange A Dinesh Kumar, mission director Kaushal Vikas Corporation Kushal Silku, joint MD of UP Jal Nigam Sanjay Kumar Khatri and PCS Ashok Kumar. In Aligarh region, the four nodal officers include director social welfare of UP Bal Krishna Tripathi, special secretary UP science & technology Ved Pati Misra, special secretary agriculture production department Rajendra Singh and additional CEO UPEIDA Shrish Chandra Verma. In April, UP government had nominated 15 senior IAS officers as nodal heads of those districts that reported 20 or more Covid-19 positive cases. These officers were to oversee the arrangements made in their respective districts to battle coronavirus. The condition of Agra, Aligarh, Firozabad and Mathura continues to aggravate with each passing day as more cases have come to light. Till now, Agra has reported 655 positive cases, Firozabad 168, Aligarh 50 and Mathura 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-appoints-nodal-officers-for-covid-control/articleshow/75585951.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 7, 2020||Salem||Salem: Man, 30, hacked to death||SALEM: A 30-year-old man was found dead with his throat slit in his house in the city on Wednesday morning. A womaniser, police suspect he might have been murdered by the husband or family members of a woman with whom he was having an illicit affair. The Annadhanapatty police identified the deceased as Abishek Maran, of Pandu Nagar in Maniyanur. He owned a truck. According to a police officer, Maran’s body was first spotted by his 67-year-old grandmother Kannamma, who went to check on him in his room as he didn’t come out of it even after 9am. “She found him lay in a pool of blood with throat slit.” She immediately alerted the Annadhanapatty police, who sent the body to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital for postmortem and initiated an inquiry. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Maran was married to a Muslim woman and had separated from her three years ago. P Thangadurai, city deputy commissioner of police (law and order) said, “After that, he had affair with many women. We are probing the role of any of the woman’s husband or family members in the murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-30-hacked-to-death/articleshow/75586828.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Erode||Class XI exam schedule only after Covid-19 crisis: Tamil Nadu minister||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said the Class XI exam schedule will be announced after the Covid-19 crisis. He told reporters in Gobichettipalayam that printing of textbooks had been nearly completed. “We have taken steps to stock text books across the state and will distribute them once the date for reopening of schools is announced,” he said, adding that, other materials including shoes, socks and bags will be distributed when schools reopen. For NEET aspirants, the minister said the school education department has started conducting online classes from Wednesday for students, with the support of a private company. Similarly, online classes have also commenced for Class X students. Recently, a message was circulated on social media that there will not be any gaps between examinations for Class X board examinations. Replying to this, the minister said there will be adequate gap between each exam and students need not worry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/class-xi-exam-schedule-only-after-covid-19-crisis-minister/articleshow/75586843.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||It is time we realise worth of migrant workers: Goa CM||PANAJI: As hordes of workers are lining up to register themselves to return to their home state, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that a section in Goa needs to understand that the state requires this manpower. He said that the government is trying to convince the workers to stay back in the state. “From our end, we are trying to convince those needed here and those who have work not leave the state. It is also the duty of GCCI (Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry) and all other bodies to convince the workers to stay back. We need this manpower in the state,” Sawant said. He also said that until recently some were clamouring for migrants to be driven out of Goa. “Now that there is an exodus of these workers, it is a good wake-up call. People also need to understand that we need manpower in Goa,” the chief minister said. Sawant said that around 4,500 Goans stranded in other states have registered online with the collector to return. He said whenever a bus leaves Goa for another state to drop off persons stuck here, the same bus is used to bring back Goans in a similar situation there. “Goans are arranging their own modes of transport and returning. Whenever a bus from Goa goes outside to another state, for instance, a bus went to Kasaragod on Tuesday, we will facilitate Goans stuck there to come back by the same bus,” Sawant said. “Those who are sent out are not being tested. They are dropped and the bus is then washed. Then those who want to return will be brought by the bus. Once they come here, they are tested before entering the state,” he said. They will then be placed under home quarantine, he added. Sawant said that though the state is a green zone, all lockdown norms must be strictly observed till May 17 to maintain the status. “In Davangere in Karnataka, which was declared a green zone, 25 tested positive in a day. If this can happen, then we should constantly fear that this is not repeated in the case of Goa,” Sawant said. As of now, 3,100 have been tested for Covid-19 in Goa, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/it-is-time-we-realise-worth-of-migrant-workers-cm/articleshow/75587653.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress slams move to stops trains||BENGALURU: While Congress came down heavily on the BS Yediyurappa government for its decision to cancel Shramik special trains to ferry migrants, there were also rumblings of discontent within the BJP over the move. While opposition leader Siddaramaiah accused the government of mishandling the issue, KPCC president DK Shivakumar criticised the government for treating migrant workers like “bonded labourers”. Siddaramaiah tweeted: “The decision to go back or stay should be with the labourers & not with the government. Labourers are free to choose health or work. Who will take responsibility if something goes wrong? Are we still practising bonded labour?” Shivakumar joined in, saying, “We cannot keep the migrant workers captive. I understand both the employees and employers are in distress and the government must address their issues in equal earnest.” However, revenue minister R Ashoka defended the move. “We are not stopping anyone from returning to their hometowns. In fact, we are sending back pilgrims, tourists and students stranded in Karnataka on priority. If migrant workers want to go back, we will arrange trains for them,” Ashoka said. He claimed trains were cancelled after some states – West Bengal “clearly” – objected to migrants returning. “Respective state governments must agree to receive migrants. We cannot send without their consent,” Ashoka said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-slams-move-to-stops-trains/articleshow/75585989.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Oppn hits out at Goa govt||Panaji: While the Centre has announced 64 flights and a naval rescue mission to bring back stranded Indians abroad, the state government has failed to ensure that similar direct flights are organised to bring back Goans, said the opposition. GFP and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte slammed CM Pramod Sawant, saying BJP cadres were opposed to the seafarers’s return. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat spoke to governor Satya Pal Malik to discuss the disembarkation process for seafarers stuck on two cruise vessels in Mumbai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-hits-out-at-goa-govt/articleshow/75587660.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||At 41.4 degrees Celsius in Lohegaon, Pune’s temperature hits season’s highest||PUNE: The city experienced its hottest day of the season on Wednesday, with the mercury climbing to 41.4C (3.4 above normal) at the Lohegaon station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD’s Shivajinagar station also recorded 40-plus temperature, with the maximum reading at 40.4C, 2.7 above normal. In its weekly weather outlook, the IMD has forecast similarly high temperatures for at least the next week, with maximum temperatures expected to hover around the 41-mark. The highest maximum temperature in the country on Wednesday was also reported from Maharashtra, with Akola sweltering at 44.9C, according to the IMD. Most stations in the state, except in the Konkan region, recorded 40-plus temperatures, with central Maharashtra, including Pune and Vidarbha, being particularly affected by the scorching sun. Apart from a possibility of “thundery activity” in some parts of the city and its outskirts on Thursday, the IMD has not forecast any possibility of showers over the next week, although it has stated that the skies will remain partly to generally cloudy for that period in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-41-4c-in-lohegaon-citys-temp-hits-seasons-highest/articleshow/75587652.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Condition of patients given plasma therapy improved, says SMS Hospital||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has become the fourth state in the country to start treating Covid-19 patients with plasma therapy. The first two Covid-19 patients, who were given plasma therapy at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, has shown signs of improvement. Health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday said they have started treatment with plasma therapy of Covid-19 patients on a trail basis. He said after Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, the state became the fourth in the country to provide plasma therapy. “Only those patients will be given plasma therapy who require ventilator support or have chronic kidney, heart or other such comorbidities,” said Sharma. “To begin with, two patients have been successfully treated with Covid plasma and this programme is going to begin for all moderate to severe needy patients,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The condition of the two patients, who have been given plasma therapy, has improved, the hospital claimed. Hospital officials said they were still Covid positive but there was remarkable improvement in their condition. On May 4, the Indian Council of Medical Research had given permission to 21 medical institutes including Jaipur’s SMS Medical College for multi-centre clinical trial titled, “A phase II, open label, randomized controlled trial to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit Covid-19 associated complications in moderate disease”. After getting permission from ICMR, SMS Medical College selected two patients for plasma therapy following all the protocol of ICMR. They are a 63-year-old person, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and bronchitis, and a 57-year-old patient having similar comorbidities. “They had fever, which was not subsiding, shortness in breathing, oxygen saturation was low, level of d-dimers which indicated thrombosis that cases pulmonary embolism leading to death was slight high,” said Dr Ajit Singh, member of core group of doctors formed by the state government for taking key decisions on treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We transfused plasma donated by those who have already been cured of Covid-19 into these two patients and we have noticed remarkable improvement in their condition. They oxygen saturation has improved, d-dimer level has gone down, fever has subsided and they do not have complaints of shortness of breath,” he said. The doctors have transfused 200ml of plasma in the patients. The hospital has selected three more patients for plasma therapy. There is an inclusive criteria for patients in the study such as he should be a confirmed case of Covid-19 by RT-PCR test, age should be more than 18 years, the ratio of PaO2 and FiO2 should be 200:300. The respiratory rate should be more than 24 per minute and SaO2 should be less than or equal to 93% on room air and availability of matched donor plasma at the point of enrolment. Pregnant women, breastfeeding women, known hypersensitivity to blood products and critically ill patients will not receive plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/condition-of-patients-given-plasma-therapy-improved-sms-hospital/articleshow/75587671.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 7, 2020||Pune||1,200 migrants in Pune ready to return to MP via train||PUNE: Over 1,000 registered migrant workers from Pune district’s Ranjangaon and Chakan areas will leave for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh by train soon, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said on Wednesday. As per the agreement, the Madhya Pradesh government will pay for the travel of the workers, while the Pune administration will arrange buses to the railway station concerned after taking the due sanctions.  "We do not want the rail services to start from Pune railway station as there is a fear of unnecessary crowding. So, it will be from one of the rural stations," Ram told TOI. He said the 1,200 workers would be provided one meal and water by the district administration, while the railways would arrange the meals for them in the train. "Only the workers who have applied and been issued the due clearances after the health check-ups are being allowed for the travel by train," the collector said, while categorically adding that there should be no crowding by other workers as only the registered workers would be able allowed to use the train service. The collector said arrangements were being made for other stations too. For the train services, more than 1,000 people should be willing to travel and after their names and clearances were received, the railway services would be arranged. State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday sought clarity from the Centre if it was ready to bear 85% of the total travelling cost of the migrant workers. With the state having more than 10 lakh migrant workers, the minister said these workers do not have jobs and the railways should not charge them train fare. The Centre is yet to issue any directions on the payment even as there was a mention that railways has subsidised 85% of ticket fare for special trains and the states were asked to pay the rest 15%. Congress unit chiefs from state had earlier reached out to the district administration expressing their willingness to bear the cost of travel of the migrants after Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said her party’s state units will would bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant labourers stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home. She had accused the central government and the Railways of completely ignoring the demands made by the Congress party for ensuring the safe and free travel of migrant workers and labourers to their homes.  Rebutting the Congress’ criticism, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday had said the Railways has subsidised 85% of ticket fare for special trains being run for migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15%. However, the state is awaiting a formal order from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1200-migrants-ready-to-return-to-mp-via-train/articleshow/75587658.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 7, 2020||Pune||Plans afoot to ferry evacuees from abroad to home districts||PUNE: Citizens returning from foreign countries to Maharashtra can travel to their home districts either in their personal vehicles or in private luxury buses arranged by the state government after completion of the 14-day quarantine period, transport minister Anil Parab said. "We are working on the mechanism and things would be finalised in the cabinet meeting," Parab told TOI. The Union government has announced a massive airlift operation to bring back around 15,000 Indian nationals from 12 countries from Thursday. As per the evacuation schedule, a total of eight flights will land at the Mumbai airport for over a week from countries such as the UK (London), Singapore, the US (New York and San Francisco, Chicago), Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur), Bangladesh and Philippines. "Special passes will be issued to people for travel once they have completed their quarantine. Private buses will be helpful for transporting them since they are likely to have a lot of luggage with them. Details of person (s) coming to pick them up, use of personal vehicles etc will be finalised soon. The state government has also released a form which can be downloaded online and filled. Through this form, we will know about the number of people from Maharashtra stranded in other countries so that assistance can be provided to them," a state government official said. Vicky Vaidya, a resident of Mumbai's Ghatkopar, currently stuck in Dubai, want's to return to his home along with his pregnant wife as early as possible. "I have been laid off by my company and am practically penniless. There are many like me from Maharashtra who are stuck here. It is my appeal to the Union government to bring us back soon," Vaidya told TOI . A Kothrud resident, currently staying in Ras-Al-Khaimah in the UAE., said, "I am left with very less money which can sustain me for a week or so. I need to go home," he said. Pune MP Girish Bapat said, " Once these people have completed their quarantine period, transportation will be provided to them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plans-afoot-to-ferry-evacuees-from-abroad-to-home-districts/articleshow/75587670.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 7, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Krishnagiri sees two new Covid-19 cases, Salem one||SALEM/KRISHNAGIRI/ERODE: Two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Krishnagiri on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to four. “We have two new cases from Mathigiri village in the district,” said S Prabhakar, Krishnagiri district collector. Both came from Maharashtra to Mathigiri on May 2, he said. As a containment measure, the Krishnagiri administration has sealed nearly seven km around Mathigiri. Sanitary workers and health department officials sprayed disinfectant across the containment area on Wednesday. Similarly, Salem district registered one more new case on Wednesday. With this, the number of cases in the district rose to 35 from 34. Residents in the containment areas in Sathyamangalam town in Erode, meanwhile, heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday as the district administration removed the barricades, letting them come out and meet their personal needs after nearly 31 days. A senior police officer said, “There are at least 1,894 families with around 6,100 residents in the containment zones. The areas were sealed on April 5.” The district, which reported 70 positive Covid-19 cases so far, is now in the green zone as there was no new case in the past 22 days. The district administration has been relaxing norms in containment zones in a phased manner. They had initially taken the containment zones in Erode town out of complete isolation. On Wednesday, the district administration relaxed the lockdown rules in Sathyamangalam town. Subsequently, residents from Kongu Nagar, Sathya theatre road, Bazaar Street, Old Market, Vadampalayam, Bakiyalakshmi Nagar and Chinna Venkatachalam Pillai Street came out of their houses since 6am to purchase groceries and other vegetables. S Venkatachalam, a resident of Kongu Nagar, said, “I came out to buy meat for my family as we hadn’t had that for more than a month now.” Police officials allowed them to go out only between 6am and 12pm. “They have to return to their house by that time. Those violating the rules will be booked,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/krishnagiri-sees-2-new-covid-19-cases-salem-1/articleshow/75586857.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops take violators down a peg||NEW DELHI: Alcohol, deemed necessary in hand sanitisers to keep the novel coronavirus at bay, ironically continues to challenge the arrangements put in place to prevent Covid infection. On the third day of liquor sales in the capital after over 40 dry days, Delhiites thronged the fewer vends that were doing business, creating “law and order problems”, as police termed them while closing the shops earlier than permitted on Wednesday. In Gole Market in central Delhi, police shut down the wine and beer outlet after four hours. “It got very difficult to maintain order, but despite making regular announcements on loudspeakers, people continued to arrive. Closing the shop was the only option,” explained a police officer. Suresh Yadav, who rode to the site from Karol Bagh, surveyed the scene from a distance. The disbelieving trader said, “I skipped coming the first two days because of the crowds. I thought the shop would be open from 9am to 7pm. I wish I had come a few hours earlier.” Disappointment was writ large on the faces of those looking to get their hands on a bottle. “This is ridiculous. None of the 5-6 shops in Vasant Kunj is open. I found two in Vasant Vihar also shut,” said Amit Kumar, 45, who had made the rounds of south Delhi in search of his tipple. “So few shops are open that the outlets are bound to be crowded. If you are charging 70% more, you should also ensure availability of the product.” Late on Monday, Delhi government imposed a special corona fee of 70% on the maximum retail price of alcoholic products in the capital. But that did little to deter consumers on Tuesday. But Wednesday did not belong to them because fewer shops were open for business than the previous day. In East Delhi, all the shops in Vishwas Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Jheel Khuranja, Chander Nagar, Shivpuri and Laxmi Nagar, among others, remained shut. So also in south Delhi. Outside an outlet in Malviya Nagar, buyers were greeted with a poster: Agle aadesh tak dukaan bandh hai (Closed until further orders). In many places, even as the shops remained closed, huge queues awaited hopefully, expecting a turn in their luck. “I am waiting since 8am,” said Sanju, 27, in Kotla Mubarakpur. “I came yesterday too, but the shop closed after a couple of hours of business. I don’t know when, if at all, this outlet will open.” Rahul, standing nearby, alleged, “You can get a bottle of whiskey at a much higher price in the black market. Is it a crime to want to have a drink after almost two months locked in our houses?” Delhi Police had asked shop owners to ensure social distancing and keep their stocks full to meet the high demand for alcohol. They were also directed to have QR code-enabled payment systems and multiple swiping machines for cards to avoid hassles and delays in accepting payments. Events on Wednesday proved the vends weren’t quite up to the task, forcing police to intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-take-violators-down-a-peg/articleshow/75586878.cms||Ritam Halder
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Passes in hand, but no trains in sight||Hyderabad: There seems to be no respite in sight for migrant workers in the city, anxiously waiting to return home. Even after being issued train passes, their struggle for basic essentials continues. At a function hall in Erragadda, TOI met close to a 1,000 workers on a sultry Wednesday afternoon — almost 24 hours after they had gathered there — who had a ‘ticket’ to their villages, but no food or water. Many of the ceiling fans in the hall too were dysfunctional. Worse, none of them sharing the space, had any idea just when they would be allowed to board a train back home. “We came here around 4pm on Tuesday to get a pass. Since then, we have been directed to wait here. We were told that a bus would come to ferry us to the railway station sometime in the evening or night, but nothing has happened so far,” said Osman Khan a worker from Odisha’s Jajpur district, even as dozens of others jumped in to rue how they have been left hungry and parched. Holding up a small packet of rice, Udaysen Moriya, said it was all that they were given to eat since they got to the function hall on Tuesday afternoon. The 38-year-old from Azamgarh (UP) could barely hold back his tears as he narrated his plight and of those around him. “We are not even being allowed to go out to get food or water. The police are beating us,” said 21-year-old Chanchal Kumar Ray from Bihar, even as Pinku Devi pointed to her two toddlers lying on the floor. They hadn’t had a drop of water in hours. “We want to go home now; else we’ll fall ill staying under such conditions,” said Minati Jana from West Bengal’s Midnapore district, while her husband — a steward at a city hotel that’s shut indefinitely now — rushed to get some food from a NGO car that had just pulled up with 500 packets of rice and curry. “My son is differently-abled...I sincerely appeal to the authorities to put us on a train soon,” she added. According to Sanathnagar police — issuing passes in the area — about 1,300 people were given passes between Tuesday and Wednesday. “There is no shortage of food...also, we have asked the people to return to their accommodations (not so far from the function hall) and we will pick them up when the trains are arranged,” V C Sajjanar, Cyberabad police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passes-in-hand-but-no-trains-in-sight/articleshow/75586861.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 7, 2020||India||Forces deal body blow to Hizb in terror’s choicest season||NEW DELHI: Even as latest inputs suggest attempts by terrorists to step up strikes in J&K coinciding with the anniversary of Battle of Badr due on May 11, the security forces have put the prime local terrorist outfit in Kashmir — Hizbul Mujahideen — on the backfoot by neutralising it’s top commander Riyaz Naikoo. Sources in the security establishment said that while the immediate leadership crisis is bound to throw Hizbul's plans in a sort of disarray, there could still be a backlash from other Hizbul commanders down the hierarchy or even by Pakistani outfits like Jaish e Mohammad or Lashker e Taiba, to "avenge" Naikoo's death with a spectacular strike. The past couple of weeks have witnessed heightened terrorist activity, with the Army and CRPF suffering reverses and fatalities in Handwara and Kupwara. The Central security establishment sees the spike in terror attacks in Kashmir as a phenomenon usual to Ramzan, when most terrorist groups get active and step up operations in the Valley. “This was not the case last year as the forces were on the top and neutralising terrorists in good numbers. With the anniversary of Battle of Badr approaching on May 11 (17th day of Ramzan), we expected terrorists to attempt more strikes as it is widely believed by outfits like Jaish e Mohammad and Lashker e Taiba — now operating under the garb of The Resistance Front (TRF) — that they go to “jannat” if they kill non-believers in this period. But the forces decided to pre-empt the terrorists by going for intelligence-based strikes, so as to put them on the backfoot and upset their designs,” said a senior Central para-military officer. It is as part of this strategy that four terrorists including Naikoo were killed on Wednesday in search and cordon operations launched at Beigpora and Awantipora. In fact, till May 6 this year, 68 terrorists have been neutralised, including 20 from Hizbul Mujahideen, 10 from Lashker e Toiba, 8 from Jaish e Mohammad, 3 from Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, 3 from Islamic State Jammu & Kashmir (ISJK), and 24 being unidentified. In whole of 2019, 156 terrorists were killed. "Precise intelligence regarding Naikoo's presence at a house in Beigpora was made available to the forces — Army, 185th and 130th battalion of CRPF and J&K police — on Tuesday by a source close to him and they lost no time in moving in on him. A security cordon was laid last night, ensuring that local civilians were kept at a distance as forces surrounded the hideout and initiated an encounter. All escape routes were blocked even as stone-pelting by locals was reported in nearby areas. Naikoo had eluded us many time earlier, managing to escape from the encounter site with the help of locals. But pinpointed intelligence and ensuring that people remained outside the security cordon helped us get it right this time. Naikoo was killed around 1.30 pm on Wednesday, giving us our big success, during Ramzan,” said a senior CRPF officer. “While we have suffered some reverses in the recent days, we will soon make the scores even. There will be retaliation ahead and sustained operations by the forces to neutralise the terrorists,” added another officer. However, even though the forces have struck a major blow by killing the Hizbul top commander, officers warned that they cannot be complacent as he is not the only terror mastermind in the Valley. "There are other Hizbul commanders who may try to hit back and fill the void. Also, Jaish e Mohammad and Lashker e Taiba which had good networking with Naikoo may like to "avenge" his killing with a spectacular strike," said a senior CRPF officer. On civilian casualties caused in the recent terror strikes, the officer said it was not unusual for terrorists to use Kashmiri people as shields, which sometimes put their lives in peril.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forces-deal-body-blow-to-hizb-in-terrors-choicest-season/articleshow/75589063.cms||Bharti Jain
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: With migrants’ exit, civic bodies hasten pre-rain works||PANAJI: Municipalities across the state are racing against time to complete pre-monsoon work like desilting gutters and pruning trees within their jurisdictions. Their haste comes not because of the imminent showers but due to the likely exodus of migrant labour. The densely populated town of Vasco holds the highest number of migrant workers in Goa. “Vasco will be handicapped without migrant labour,” chairperson of the Vasco Municipal Council, Nandadip Raut, said. “But we cannot do anything about it as it’s the government’s decision to allow them to go back home.” In Panaji, only major works near Bal Bhavan are pending. One hundred labourers are required to work for 20 days to desilt drains that haven’t been cleaned for nearly 25 years. A similar desilting drive is expected to be taken up by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) near the B R Ambedkar garden at Patto. “We are worried,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “Our contractors would earlier bring 20-25 labourers for a job but now only 15 are able to show up for work. Once trains start taking them back home, there will be more migrants leaving. This will affect construction projects, development and other tasks in Panaji,” he said. In Ponda, 75% of pre-monsoon works have already been completed, but the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) is stressing over something much bigger. There are 25 people hired for the treatment of waste at the garbage plant who may leave, threatening to affect the waste management plan of the entire town. “We have been providing them with rations during the lockdown and are trying to convince them to stay back,” PMC chairperson Kedar Naik, said. At the municipal level, PMC employed 30 people of which 15 are standard workers and the other half are attempting to return to Madhya Pradesh. Some others, however, are confident that the exodus will have little to no impact on their activities. “Municipal workers who have permanent employment with us will not quit their jobs and leave. Even the daily wage workers have been with us for a decade. We don’t see our works getting affected in any way,” said chief officer of the Mapusa Municipal Council, Clen Medeira. Chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council, Ajit Panchwadkar, refused to comment on the impact of the migrant exodus in his jurisdiction. “We are collecting migrants’ data and submitting it to the directorate of municipal administration. It is for them to take a call,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-migrants-exit-civic-bodies-hasten-pre-rain-works/articleshow/75587698.cms||Nida Sayed
May 7, 2020||Pune||Pune's Symbiosis University Hospital makes stay fun for its young patients||PUNE: The Symbiosis University Hospital — one of the nodal Covid-19 facilities — has woven interactive fun and engagement into the daily activities of its young patients to beat the stress of battling the deadly virus. Fun activities like musical chair, shaking a leg and grooving to Bollywood soundtracks and dibs on their favourite shows on TV, besides a special kids’ menu, takes the children’s minds off the fact that they are away from home. “We have a total of 35 children in the hospital. We have children as young as 5 months old in our care. Fortunately, all of them are healthy individuals so that none of them needed even oxygen support. I think the most difficult part is keeping them still in one place. They keep running around the ward. The aim is that they shouldn’t feel the stress of being inside a hospital. The treatment is more like an interaction between medical staff and them. We don’t expect them to be lying down on their beds all the time. We want them to be as comfortable as possible, as we understand they too are living here separated from their home and loved ones,” said Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer of Symbiosis University Hospital. A patient, who had four children from his family in the hospital, said, “The hospital gave these children space for playing. They arranged a see-saw, they would conduct activities like musical chair and other games, and even gave them surprise goodies. The special kids’ menu comprised sandwiches and fried rice among others. At the time of discharge they were handed chocolate bars.” The hospital is now trying to indulge the senior citizens in different activities as well, said Natarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospital-makes-stay-fun-for-its-young-patients/articleshow/75587681.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 7, 2020||Pune||Man murders father and sets body on fire in Maharashtra, arrested||PUNE: The Paud police on Wednesday arrested a 35-year-old man for bludgeoning his father to death and setting the body on fire. The man — Maruti Surve of Survewadi in Mulshi taluka, around 30km from Pune — told the Paud police in the early hours of Wednesday that his father Namdev (70) ended his life by setting himself on fire. When the police reached the spot, they found Namdev’s half-burnt body. “During questioning, Maruti admitted that he had bludgeoned his father to death and then set the body on fire,” sub-inspector of the Paud police Anil Lavte said. Lavte said Maruti stayed in Survewadi with his father and 10-year-old son after his wife left him. He worked in a private company. “We came to know that Maruti and his father would quarrel almost everyday over different issues,” Lavte said. On Tuesday night, both of them got into a brawl. “In a fit of rage, Maruti picked up a cricket bat and hit it on his father’s death, killing him instantly,” Lavte said. Maruti dragged his father’s body to a nearby dried stream and set it on fire by pouring petrol on it in the early hours of Wednesday. “Maruti has been arrested under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-murders-father-and-sets-body-on-fire-arrested/articleshow/75587696.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||On track: 12k workers of 5 states head home||Hyderabad: Even as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants migrant workers to stay back, 11 special trains carrying labourers left from six railway stations on Wednesday. Over 12,000 workers belonging to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh left for their native places. Officials said more number of trains would be operated on Thursday. The first two special trains with workers left for Jharkhand and Bihar from Lingampally and Ghatkesar stations in the past one week. Early on Wednesday, 11 trains left from Bibinagar, Cherlapally, Ghatkesar, Moulali, Medchal and Lingampally. At 12 am, a train with 1,270 workers from Bihar left Cherlapally to Sitamarhi From the same station, at 3 am, another train to Barabanki in UP left with 1,220 labourers. From Ghatkesar, two trains left early in the day carrying 845 migrant workers of Jharkhand and 1,245 workers of Bhagalpur, Bihar. From Bibinagar, two trains set out with 1,030 Bihar workers to Gaya and 876 MP workers to Bhopal. Two specials left from Bolarum and Medchal carrying 2,000 passengers going to Katni in MP and Rajasthan. Three trains chugged out from Lingampally to Darbhanga, Gorakhpur and Bhagalpur carrying 3,500 passengers. Face masks, water and food were provided to all the workers, officials said. So far, 13 special trains have left the city with migrant workers. Surprisingly, the railway authorities have not used the three main terminals — Secunderabad, Nampally and Kacheguda — till now. Officials said this was to prevent huge gathering at the stations during day time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-track-12k-workers-of-5-states-head-home/articleshow/75586883.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Now, BMC allows only 2 shops in a lane: Hardware and electronic||MUMBAI: The utter confusion over how to re-open Mumbai could not be clearer with yet another BMC flip-flop on Wednesday over allowing non-essential shops to open during the lockdown. In the past five days, at least three decisions have been revised or rolled back . A day after the civic chief ordered all non-essential shops shut, including those selling liquor which attracted unmanageable crowds, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued an amended order on Wednesday allowing standalone electronic goods and hardware shops to open, but not more than one per road. Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh, who pushed for the relaxation, told TOI: “We have allowed one each of non-essential electronics and hardware shops on one road to be opened while liquor shops, due to which there was crowding on the streets, will remain closed.” In Wednesday’s BMC order, addressed to the assistant municipal commissioners of all 24 wards, Pardeshi said many “essential and lifesaving medical equipment, IT systems related to health systems and machines/vehicles are in the state of disrepair due to closing down of the electronics and hardware shops and there is an urgent need to keep such shops open to some extent”. Minister Aslam Shaikh said he had pushed for opening some shops selling non-essentials like hardware, electronic goods in a meeting with Pardeshi on Wednesday. “Though these items are not considered essential, in this heat electronic goods shops are not less than essential. In summer, these shops should be opened so that people can buy or repair fans, air-conditioners or other electronic items,” Shaikh told TOI. The final decision on which electronics and hardware shops should open will be with the local authorities. The confusion continues in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, where the order on opening standalone non-essential shops was tweaked by local authorities and saw uneven implementation. On Wednesday, Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal revoked the permission to open non-essentials shops citing breach of lockdown norms. The issue of opening shops selling non-essential items was discussed by the state cabinet on Wednesday. It decided to leave it to the local authorities to take a call on opening such shops, including liquor outlets, in their respective districts, considering the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic. This was despite most ministers complaining about the local administration changing rules without consulting any minister. “There is a lot of confusion among traders and shopkeepers. Even people do not know what is allowed and when. There is a need for better communication between ministers, guardian ministers and the district administration,” said a minister, on the condition of anonymity. (With inputs from Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-bmc-allows-only-2-shops-in-a-lane-hardware-and-electronic/articleshow/75587683.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||SETA seeks GO on electrical shops in city||Hyderabad: Secunderabad Electrical Trade Association (SETA) is seeking clarity and a Government Order (GO) defining guidelines on the timings and other regulations to reopen electronic and electrical shops in the city. “We are willing to open our shops between 10 a.m and 4 p.m. But we are confused with the order. On one hand it says that electrical shops can be opened but on the other hand it says that shops are not allowed in the red zones,” Ajay Sethia, president, SETA, told TOI. “We approached the police stations in whose jurisdiction the respective shops fall, but even they don’t have clarity regarding red zones,” he added. SETA is planning to start operations with 30 percent staff and would take all precautions like sanitizing material entering the shop. We are asking the state government to issue a GO regarding the functioning of electric shops,” added Sethia. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seta-seeks-go-on-electrical-shops-in-city/articleshow/75587733.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: VCK condemns move to reopen Tasmac outlets||ERODE: The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) cadres in the district hoisted black flags at their houses on Wednesday to condemn the move to reopen Tasmac outlets in the state from Thursday. Talking to the media, district VCK secretary K Ambedkar said the move would put a lot of people at the risk of getting infected with Covid-19. Pointing out that the state had hardly reported any drunken fights and family disputes in the past few weeks when Tasmac outlets remained closed, he said such incidents would surface again if people started to consume alcohol. The VCK cadres also gathered in Saminathapuram area and raised slogans against the state government for reopening Tasmac outlets hastily. More than 50 people, including women and kids, participated in the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/vck-condemns-move-to-reopen-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75586869.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Confused Tamil Nadu muddles handling of guest workers||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government seems to have been caught napping when it came to handling the issue of thousands of guest workers who have come to consider the state as their second home. The problem has been compounded by the fact that no one, including the state and the Centre, seems to have a clue about when the lockdown will end. Since guest workers have come to be the backbone of several industries in the state, Tamil Nadu government feared that the absence of them could delay the process of economic revival in the state. "Instead of getting into a scenario, where the state has to prepare moving them to their native places, it was looking at ways to ease restrictions and permit industries to resume operations. But, that was easier said than done," official sources in the state government said. Even before restrictions could be eased in the state for industries to resume operations even in a limited way, Telangana and Kerala ran special trains for guest workers. As the news trickled in, the guest workers here became restive and Tamil Nadu government came under pressure to do the same and it directed the revenue officials to visit workers’ camps and quarters to enumerate those keen to go back home. Everyone wanted to go. "Those workers who were directly working for companies remained confident and were keen to stay back, since they were being taken care of. Those workers, who were working for contractors, became desperate," says an official in shipping and logistics industry. "We were taking care of the workers and were providing them food and had paid their salaries. Except for a few, most workers were keen to remain here. As we prepared to start work this week, the government officials came and told the workers – that special trains are being organized. Everyone put up their hands to go," said an official with Polyhose Group, an auto component maker. "The government should have given a week’s notice before announcing the lockdown, so that workers would have gone back. After having taken care of them all through the crisis, the government’s move is now creating problem for us since everyone wants to go home," says A Ramasamy, executive director, Elite Constructions. With limited or no work and no wages, the workers seem to think it defeats the very purpose of being here. "While industries have been taking care of their workers, this is the time when the government has to support industries financially and they in turn could handle the workers," says Sanjay Shroff, president, The Indian Foundrymen’s Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/confused-state-muddles-handling-of-guest-workers/articleshow/75586863.cms||D Govardan
May 7, 2020||Goa||Rlys invokes act for land acquisition||Margao: The ministry of railways has invoked the Railways Act, 1989, to enable land acquisition for the South Western Railway’s (SWR) Hospet-Hubballi-Tinaighat-Vasco double-tracking project in Goa. A notification to this effect issued by the Ministry of Railways has been published in the recent extraordinary issue of the Gazette of India, paving the way for the government to bulldoze any opposition from the public to moves made by it to acquire land under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. Deputy collector and sub-divisional officer, Mormugao, in-charge of land acquisition, has been designated as the “competent authority” for the purpose of land acquisition for the project as per the notification. The SWR has set March 2021 as the tentative target to make the Margao-Sanvordem double-tracked route operational, thereby making the partial Goa stretch the first to be made functional along the underway Hospet-Hubballi-Tinaighat-Vasco doubling tracking project. However, the nearly six-week long pause in the project activities during lockdown 1.0 and 2.0 has pushed back the timelines of the project. Though the work resumed from May 4, sources said that as many of the migrant labourers engaged in the work have registered to return to their home states, the project is likely to face a further setback. Chief public relations officer of the SWR, E Vijaya, when contacted said that the lockdown has affected all the major projects of the Indian Railways, but hastened to add that the extent of the effect will be known only after the lockdown is lifted. “It’s premature to determine how the lockdown situation has affected the schedules of the project,” Vijaya said. Sources in the Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd, the execution agency of the Indian Railways, however maintained that all possible efforts were being made to ensure that all timelines of the double tracking project are met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rlys-invokes-act-for-land-acquisition/articleshow/75587729.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Pune||PCMC panel’s nod to works of Rs 7.71 crore||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body’s standing committee approved various developmental works at an estimated expenditure of Rs7.71 crore during its special meeting on Tuesday, said committee chairman Santosh Londhe. Londhe said, “We have told the civic officials to start a community kitchen in one municipal school in each of the 32 electoral wards for providing cooked food to the migrants, homeless and needy people. 18 resolutions of various developmental works including improvement of drainage network in Chikhali and Rahatani at Rs62.33 lakh and Rs45.75 lakh, respectively, were approved. Resolution for purchasing medical equipment for isolation wards in civic hospitals at an expenditure of Rs95.91 lakh was also approved.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-panels-nod-to-works-of-rs-7-71-crore/articleshow/75587711.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Hotel rooms readied in Chennai for Tamils flying home||CHENNAI: At least 1,600 ‘clinically-efficient’ rooms in 10 star hotels in Chennai have been readied to accommodate non-resident Tamils expected to fly back home from Friday. Thousands of workers, students and tourists from the state have been stranded in different countries since the fourth week of March when the lockdown began and was subsequently extended twice. Now, around 50,000 Tamils, mostly workers and businessmen from the Gulf countries like the UAE and Oman, have registered on www.nonresidenttamil.org, created to facilitate their return. Around 2,000 will return by special flights in the next one week. Candidates were prioritised after evaluating the reasons they mentioned the portal and logistics. The first special flight, with 500 people from Malaysia, is expected to land at Chennai on Friday. Confirmation from Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Civil Aviation is awaited, said a government official. On landing, they will be tested at the airport and in case they test positive, they will be referred to hospitals. Those who don’t positive will have to be in self-quarantine either at home, if they have a separate room with a toilet attached, or at government facilities with basic amenities. Arrangements have been made at Tambaram Sanitorium, Air Force Station and few other locations to accommodate over 70,000 people, the official added. For those seeking better facilities and some privacy, rooms in 10 star hotels have been modified to offer quarantine services. Government authorities have inspected them. Rupam Dutta, general manager of Feathers Radha Hotel at Manappakam, said it would be a non-contact process. "The restaurant will be closed and food provided in trays kept outside their rooms. Laundry and other services too will be minimal and provided by employees wearing Personal Protective Equipment once in 3-4 days. Other help will be offered through calls, he added. All returnees will pay for their stay in hotels which have reduced rates by 50%. The government will not reimburse the cost. In case the number of returnees increases, more hotels will be roped in, said government officials. Doctors and nurses handling Covid-19 cases at government hospitals have been accommodated at other star hotels in the city, with the government so far spending Rs 15 crore towards this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hotel-rooms-readied-for-tamils-flying-home/articleshow/75586876.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 7, 2020||Bengaluru||-ve in 2nd test, pregnant woman shifted out of Covid-19 hospital||Bengaluru: For the first time, Karnataka on Wednesday reported an alleged false positive Covid-19 case. A 30-year-old pregnant woman, who is in her third trimester, first tested positive at a private lab on April 5. However, on admission, doctors at Victoria Hospital trauma care centre sent her for a retest as they found her report inconclusive and also because the earlier test was done at a private lab. As her second report came negative, she was shifted to a private hospital on Wednesday. However, according to the health and family welfare department, the woman’s case cannot be concluded as false positive yet. “We have to test her samples once again. There must be some confusion,” an IAS officer on Covid-19 duty told TOI. “She is already exposed to a Covid-19 facility. She should have been kept in the isolation facility of the government hospital till another test report is received. The woman, however, does not have symptoms. She is strong psychologically too,” said a doctor at Victoria Hospital. Meanwhile, in another goof-up, a 40-year-old head constable, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was found to be negative and discharged from the trauma care centre on Wednesday. He was shifted to an institutional quarantine. According to officials, two policemen had given swab samples on May 1, but both the samples carried the same name and address. However, their mobile phone numbers were different. The error happened at Jayanagar General Hospital. One of the samples tested positive and the head constable was declared infected and hospitalised. However, the error surfaced later and the head constable as well as the other policeman were tested again. This time, both were found to be negative. “We don’t know who filled the forms. That’s where the confusion was created. Now, a retest will have to be done on their samples at the National Institute of Virology, Pune,” said health department authorities. “Remedial action will be initiated once the final confirmatory reports are received from the lab. As of now, both the persons are in isolation. Disciplinary action will be initiated against the officials responsible for the confusion,” a released from the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/-ve-in-2nd-test-pregnant-woman-shifted-out-of-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/75586031.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Dr Rajesh Sharma is new superintendent of SMS Hospital||Jaipur: Dr Rajesh Sharma, senior professor (anaesthesia), Sawai Man Singh Medical College, took charge as the superintendent of the SMS Hospital as Dr D S Meena retired from the post. Dr Sharma said during the times of Covid-19, his focus will be on helping the corona warriors in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients in the hospital. “Safety of the doctors and nurses who are treating Covid-19 patients is the topmost priority,” Dr Sharma said. Over 15 hospital staff have been infected with the virus. However, he has a task in hand to normalise the functioning once more relaxation in lockdown is given by the state government. “Most of the parts of the hospital have been converted into corona care hospital. Currently, the footfall at the OPD is quite low. Once more relaxation is given, it is expected that the number of patients will increase in the hospital. We have decentralized our OPD due to Covid-19 as our teams of doctors are providing treatment in hospitals such as Kanwatia, Sethi Colony and Bani Park,” said Dr Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dr-rajesh-sharma-is-new-superintendent-of-sms-hospital/articleshow/75587726.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Panaji mkt complex to reopen today||Panaji: Six weeks after the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) sealed the gates of the Panaji municipal market complex in view of the lockdown, the building is all set to reopen on Thursday. The complex will be open from 8am to 6pm. Of the six gates in the building, only the main entry gate will be kept open. Only 50 people at a time will be accommodated inside the complex. In the complex, clothes, food grains, masala and mobile phone repair shops will be open. Food stores and vegetable kiosks will not be permitted to restart from inside the complex till the lockdown ends, CCP said. Since the lockdown in March, only medical stores in the city were kept open in addition to a few vegetable stores. CCP inspectors cracked the whip on vendors who attempted to restart stores that didn’t fall under the essential items category. Even in the first week of April the complex remained shut when other shops in Panaji opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-complex-to-reopen-today/articleshow/75587717.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Indore||Liquor shops open in Madhya Pradesh after 45 ‘dry’ days||BHOPAL/INDORE: The stalemate between liquor traders and the Madhya Pradesh government ended after talks on Wednesday, and shops immediately opened for business in several districts. Many more will open on Thursday, barring those in Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain and in containment areas in other districts. Many shops that opened late afternoon had run out of stock in a couple of hours, thanks to the rush after 45 ‘dry’ days. “Majority of the shops in areas allowed by the district administration have already opened and rest will open, as per the instructions of the government,” spokesperson of MP Liquor Traders’ Association, Rahul Jaiswal, told TOI. The state government has suffered an estimated loss of Rs 1,800 crore in liquor revenue due to the lockdown and it’s keen to mop up funds as the Covid-19 fight has been a drain on the exchequer. The government had ordered liquor shops to reopen on Monday, but traders refused, saying they will suffer losses due to the restrictions and they don’t have enough work force as employees have left for their home states. They moved court, and a meeting with the government on Tuesday failed to get a breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/liquor-shops-open-in-mp-after-45-dry-days/articleshow/75595239.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Goldsmith turns super spreader in cement town Nimbahera||JAIPUR: The number of Covid-19 cases at the cement town of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh has crossed 100 within a span of 10 days. The entire district was free from the virus as late as April 26. Nimbahera, which borders Madhya Pradesh, reported the first case when a local goldsmith who returned from Indore on April 18 tested positive on April 26. The local administration which was preparing to lift the lockdown on May 3 was unaware that a trader will turn out to a super spreader. His travel history was revealed only after he tested positive. When his entire family tested positive for the virus on April 28, the administration swung into action and started door-to-door screening at Naya Bazaar, Lakehri Chowk and Maheshwari Colony. Since the district had no positive case for almost a month, the lockdown was taken for granted by the locals, a local scribe said. “It is unfortunate but true that so far all cases have emerged out of a single source. Almost 90% of the cases have been reported from three small areas in the town and 60% of them have been asymptomatic the time they tested positive,” said Inderjit Singh, CMHO, Chittorgarh. Another 200 suspected persons are under quarantine in a government facility awaiting their test reports. The goldsmith later died while undergoing treatment in Udaipur. Those under home quarantine includes state cooperative minister and local MLA Uday Lal Anjana, who came in contact with those who tested positive during relief work. A ruthless curfew has been imposed in town since May 2. The avalanche of cases days before the end of Lockdown 2.0 had put the district into the red category from green. Another worry for the administration is movement of migrant workers of cement industries who had stayed back hoping to resume work in the factories. The town has the country’s four major cement plants and engages around 50,000 workers directly and indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nimbahera-becomes-hotspot-after-local-goldsmith-crosses-mp-border-illegally-tests-positive/articleshow/75586887.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Best medical talent must join fight: DyCM Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: Deputy chief minister and health minister Nitin Patel appealed to the best talent in the field of medicine to come forward and contribute in the state government’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Patel held a meeting with doctors at the Civil Hospital campus and reviewed the health department’s preparedness. Patel said, “I appeal to the best brains and talent of the medical fraternity to come forward to join the government’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. At a time when cases and deaths due to the pandemic are increasing, the medical fraternity must come forward and provide their services.” Meanwhile, after CM Vijay Rupani appealed to doctors to join work at the Civil Hospital, a number of private practitioners, including Dr Jigar Mehta, Dr Tushar Patel, Dr Gopal, Dr Amrish and others joined work at the Civil Hospital. A senior officer said the state health department issued a circular to all collectors and municipal commissioners giving them powers to recruit doctors and other paramedical staff at whatever terms and conditions they are available. CM asks Amit Shah to provide help of expert doctors CM Vijay Rupani has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, and requested for the expert guidance of three national experts. Rupani requested that ICMR and AIIMS director Dr Randip Guleria, Delhi Apollo’s Dr Rajesh Chavla and leading Mumbai pulmonologist Dr Rohit Pandit visit Gujarat and provide their inputs on how the pandemic can be contained. They are likely to visit shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/best-medical-talent-must-join-fight-dycm/articleshow/75586894.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Liquor shops open in Madhya Pradesh after 45 ‘dry’ days||BHOPAL/INDORE: The stalemate between liquor traders and the Madhya Pradesh government ended after talks on Wednesday, and shops immediately opened for business in several districts. Many more will open on Thursday, barring those in Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain and in containment areas in other districts. Many shops that opened late afternoon had run out of stock in a couple of hours, thanks to the rush after 45 ‘dry’ days. “Majority of the shops in areas allowed by the district administration have already opened and rest will open, as per the instructions of the government,” spokesperson of MP Liquor Traders’ Association, Rahul Jaiswal, told TOI. The state government has suffered an estimated loss of Rs 1,800 crore in liquor revenue due to the lockdown and it’s keen to mop up funds as the Covid-19 fight has been a drain on the exchequer. The government had ordered liquor shops to reopen on Monday, but traders refused, saying they will suffer losses due to the restrictions and they don’t have enough work force as employees have left for their home states. They moved court, and a meeting with the government on Tuesday failed to get a breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/liquor-shops-open-in-mp-after-45-dry-days/articleshow/75586890.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Gaya||Bihar: 8,000 expatriates stranded in Middle East to be brought to Gaya||GAYA: About 8,000 stranded expatriates of Bihar will be brought to Gaya. The stranded expatriates will be coming by special Air India flights. The first flight would land at the Gaya International Airport on 11 May. This is part of the biggest evacuation exercise being undertaken by the govt to evacuate Indians stranded in foreign countries on the account of continued lockdown. They will be quarantined before being allowed to go home. According to Gaya airport sources, arrangements have begun to ensure social distancing and other Covid-19 norms during the operation of special flights by the Air India. Gaya airport has got two aero brides and as of now, and works in a single shift between 8am and 4pm. As per the SOP notified by the Union home ministry, those being evacuated will have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for 14 days. They will remain under institutional quarantine at their own cost. Only asymptomatic travellers would be allowed to undertake the journey, says the SOP. It is not clear whether the evacuees will be quarantined at their disembarkation point (Gaya) or their respective district head quarters. All evacuees are mandated to download Arogyasetu app on their mobile phones. Sources say that a sizeable number of evacuees are from Siwan, Gopalganj and Darbhanga districts. Siwan, it is to be recalled, is one of the worst Covid-19 affected regions of the state. Confirming the plan to bring the people stranded in the middle east including UAE, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that further details are being worked out. All precautions will be made during the arrival and transit of the international passengers, said Singh.  It may be recalled that two of the six Covid-19 positive cases in the district had international travel history and they came from UAE, a couple of days before the commencement of the lockdown. The evacuees, according to sources, will be brought in narrow body planes as Gaya airport does not have the necessary wherewithal to accommodate wide body planes. The current length of the runway is 500 meters short of the length required to facilitate the landing/take off of the wide body planes. Airlines, the world over, are phasing out the narrow body planes. AI, however, has a strong fleet of narrow body planes operating on different domestic routes.  Gaya airport, it may be recalled, is the only international airport of Bihar. Special Haj flights for Bihar pilgrims originate from Gaya. Permanent immigration infrastructure and highly sensitive luggage scanners are available at the airport.  Earlier, Myanmar Airlines International and Thai Smile Airlines operated four special flights between 22-25 April to evacuate 600 Thai and Burmese national stranded in Bodh Gaya and some other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gaya/8000-bihar-expatriates-stranded-in-middle-east-to-be-brought-to-gaya/articleshow/75589065.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 7, 2020||Goa||Longer wait for seamen at ports||Panaji: Director of NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza said on Wednesday that seafarers who are on vessels at ports (and not on land) are unlikely to feature in the first phase of evacuation. He said that those who are already signed off and are on land could be considered, depending on their circumstances. “Companies are not looking at signing off half or just a few of the Indian crew, to catch a flight. They prefer to sign off the entire Indian crew at once, and close the chapter. Until charter flights resume, they may keep them on board or send them home by ship. And till charters are permitted, the only route for them is the sea route.” The Goan Seamen’s Association of India on Tuesday wrote to PM Narendra Modi appealing for seafarers to be brought back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/longer-wait-for-seamen-at-ports/articleshow/75587738.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: 300 samples test negative for virus||PANAJI: The virology laboratory at Goa Medical College (GMC) tested 300 samples, all of which were negative for Covid -19. As many as 188 persons were placed in facility quarantine on Wednesday, said the health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. Reports of 15 patients will be available by the end of the day, it added. Persons placed in facility quarantine, other than seafarers, are permitted to go home once they test negative for Covid-19. They are however required be in home quarantine for the remainder of the14 day period. nonetheless.Seven persons were admitted in the isolation ward at GMC on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/300-samples-test-negative-for-virus/articleshow/75589127.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mob attacks vegetable vendor’s home over ‘refusal’ to fill travel forms||MUMBAI: A mob of more than 30 villagers armed with iron rods pelted stones and bricks at the bungalow of a wholesale vegetable vendor in Nalasopara on Tuesday night for allegedly not helping some migrants fill online travel forms. His wife and six-year-old nephew sustained injuries in the attack. Brijesh Chauhan (30) has been helping migrants, mostly vegetable vendors, fill online travel forms to return their native towns in Uttar Pradesh. On Monday night, a group of men from Kalamb village approached him at his bungalow to help fill the forms of some migrants who wished to travel to districts within Maharashtra and some outside the state. Chauhan asked them to come back on Tuesday as he had already filled around 450 forms that day. The men abused him, called him an outsider, and left. Chauhan, whose family has resided in the village for over 70 years, filed a non-cognisable offence with Vasaigaon police the same night. On Tuesday, after the attack, Vasaigaon police registered a case of rioting and voluntarily causing hurt against 12 identified men and another 15 to 20 unidentified persons from Kalamb village in Nalasopara. The incident took place in Nirmal village, 1.7km away from Kalamb village. On Tuesday, around 9pm, when Chauhan was still to return home, he got a call from his wife Reema (26) informing him that a mob had gathered outside their home. They pelted stones and bricks at the bungalow and destroyed the window panes. They even used iron rods to destroy some furniture in the house. In his police complaint, Chauhan said his family, comprising parents, two brothers, their wives and minor children, and his wife and two children, was present at home at the time of the attack. Reema and his six-year-old nephew sustained injuries to their heads as stones and bricks were hurled into the house. Chauhan alleged the mob called them outsiders and asked them to leave the village. Chauhan’s neighbour Vijeta Surve said that Brijesh was helping people fill online forms for migrants since the past three to four days. A case has been registered under IPC sections 324 for voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon, 336 for an act endangering life or personal safety, 504 for intentional insult, 506 for criminal intimidation, 141, 143 and 149 for unlawful assembly, 147 for rioting, 427 for mischief causing damage, 188 for disobedience to order and 269 for a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, and sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. Those arrested include Anant Gharat, Dharshan Gharat, Hemant Mhatre, Jayesh Mhatre, Dhiraj Gharat, Samrat Kini, Rahul Meher, Kalpesh Mhatre, Bhushan Govari, Parag Garat and Devikant Tamore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mob-attacks-veg-vendors-home-over-refusal-to-fill-travel-forms/articleshow/75586922.cms||Sandhya Nair
May 7, 2020||Goa||GU: Research work in labs can resume||Panaji: Faculty members, PhD scholars and post-doctoral fellows have been permitted by Goa University to resume research activity in laboratories of various science departments. “Heads of science departments and vice-deans (research) of science schools are requested to ensure that proper social distancing is maintained in their research laboratories in addition to the normal operations of safe laboratory practices,” said circular states. Other precautions such as regular handwashing and sanitation of surfaces will also be adhered to. Scholars who are feeling unwell have been asked to stay home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-research-work-in-labs-can-resume/articleshow/75589126.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||AG: Planning to reach out to needy advocates as soon as possible||Hyderabad: Advocate General BS Prasad on Wednesday said that in tune with the guidance of the state government and the high court, they are planning to reach out to the poor advocates as early as possible. He thanked chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for according a Rs 25 crore grant to help the lawyers in distress. The lockdown has crippled the advocates in general and those with less than seven years of experience in particular, he told TOI. “A state government coming to the rescue of advocates in such a big way is unprecedented and we will ensure that every paisa of it reaches the needy,” he added. Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan has been guiding the advocates in many aspects and the AG was in touch with the advocate bodies to arrive at some criterion. “A format will be made ready and our plan is to invite applications online and send money to their accounts through online mode before May 20 itself,” the AG said. As far as rural bars are concerned, the magistrates of the relevant courts will have to certify the genuineness of the applicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ag-planning-to-reach-out-to-needy-advocates-as-soon-as-possible/articleshow/75587755.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown hit Telangana economy hard, but will bounce back: FM Harish Rao||The state’s revenues hit a new low during the lockdown with just 17% of monthly average collections in April, says finance minister T Harish Rao. Claiming that the government will work out a bailout package by discussing it with industry experts on revival of economy, the minister tells Koride Mahesh that Telangana will bounce back soon. His hope stems from the fact that during natural calamities, the loss is enormous and in this case, it can be bridged. Excerpts from the interview. What is the overall impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on state’s economy? The state’s revenues were badly impacted since March 15 after the lockdown was imposed in the state. The government gets Rs 10,800 crore a month on account of GST, excise, stamps and registration, mining and other heads. In April, Telangana earned only Rs 1,700 crore. But, the government’s monthly commitments are intact such as Aasara pension (Rs 875 crore), salaries and pensions (Rs 1,800 crore), power subsidies (Rs 850 crore), rice subsidy (Rs 600 crore), etc. Apart from this, Rs 2,300 crore interest goes towards loan payment. An amount of Rs 1,200 crore was released for Rs 1,500 financial assistance to 80 lakh ration card holders for two months. Apart from this, Rs 1,200 crore was released for loan waiver scheme. Does the state have plans to impose special coronavirus fee or tax on the lines of Delhi government?The state government hiked 16% on liquor prices on popular brands and 11% on cheap liquor. It is like coronavirus fee only. As of now, the government has no such plans on collecting special fee from other sectors. A couple of months ago, CM announced that there would be a hike in property tax, land market value for property registrations and power tariff. Will government go ahead with its plan?If one sector is affected, the government can recover it by enhancing charges or taxes. Every sector has suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic. The CM will take a call on this. Before taking any decision, the government will elicit views from industry and several experts. For instance, on increasing the market value prices, the government will take the opinion of TREDA and other real estate bodies. KCR has made suggestions for revival of economy in the country and also called for handholding of states. Has the state got any assurance on this?The CM suggested four to five measures such as increasing FRBM limit from current 3% to 3.5% of GSDP, deferment of loan instalments to be paid by the state government, helicopter money to rescue state governments and clearing of Rs 1,500 crore GST and IGST arrears. The Centre released only Rs 269 crore in the first week of April. It is unfortunate that Centre has not responded to our requests. Even for transporting migrant workers, we paid Rs 5 crore advance to SCR. Is there any proposal on increased focus on health and medical department in the wake of Covid-19? Health has been a priority sector for the Telangana government. KCR Kits, Basti Dawakhanas and equipment and infrastructure development in hospitals have all been part of this endeavour. The government has spent over Rs 1,000 crore to procure PPEs, N95 masks, ventilators and for developing a Covid-19 hospital at Gachibowli and augmenting facilities in existing hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-hit-t-economy-hard-but-will-bounce-back-fm-harish/articleshow/75586909.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||616 people leave for Andhra from Abu Road in spl train||UDAIPUR: A special train carrying 616 people, most of them visitors from Andhra Pradesh, stranded at the Brahma Kumaris headquarters, departed from the Abu Road station for Visakhapatnam early Wednesday. Some 578 visitors, including farmers, traders and villagers from various districts of Andhra Pradesh had arrived at the Shantivan campus of the Brahma Kumaris on March 16 for a meditation camp. The event, scheduled for March 20, was cancelled due to the coronavirus in the country. The visitors had return tickets for March 24 but could not travel after railways suspended passenger services on March 23 and the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown two days later. Besides these visitors, the train also carried some people from Abu Road and Pali who had been allowed by the authorities to travel. All passengers had to undergo a health screening and were cleared by a team of doctors before boarding the train. Widely spaced circles had been drawn on the station platform to help maintain social distancing, and the passengers stood inside them as they waited for their turn to board the train. Local officials, including Ravindra Goswami, sub-divisional magistrate Mount Abu, and Praveen Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, were present on the occasion. Also present were B K Mruthyunjay, executive secretary of the Brahma Kumaris, the station master, and officials from the Railway Protection Force and government railway police force. The passengers were presented flowers before their departure and the officials clapped as the train left the station at 12.15 am. It is scheduled to reach Visakhapatnam in 36 hours. The Brahma Kumaris had requested home minister Amit Shah, Rajasthan government and the Andhra Pradesh government to arrange the special train. Many of the passengers were farmers who needed to harvest their crops back home. The special train arrived at Abu Road station around 9 pm on Tuesday from Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/616-people-leave-for-andhra-from-abu-road-in-spl-train/articleshow/75586899.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks corporations to screen workers||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is taking help of the municipal bodies to screen migrant workers for any Covid-19 symptom before allowing them to leave for their hometown. On Wednesday, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) initiated an exercise to test 123 migrants who are staying at its shelter in Bengali Girls School near Gole Market and want to return to Rajasthan. Their personal details will also be collected before they are issued movement passes. The order came after the office of the additional chief secretary (home) received details of 1,310 people who wish to go back to Rajasthan even by making their own arrangements, said an NDMC official. “Out of them, these 123 people have given their present address in New Delhi district. Most of them were labourers at government sites,” he said. Everybody assembled at gate no. 2 of Atal Adarsh Bengali Balika Vidhyalaya for the screening by two teams of doctors and nurses. “The exercise will continue for those who want to travel to their own state from Delhi,” the official added. For hassle-free screening and related work, the school principal has been asked to arrange for staff and other items such as furniture and printers, while the station house officer of the local police station has been told to ensure social distancing among the applicants. After a person is declared fit, the overall in-charge — a Delhi government official — will issue a movement pass and share the details with the chief district medical officer of New Delhi for informing the state or district administration concerned, the order stated. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said that they were yet to receive any such order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-asks-corpns-to-screen-workers/articleshow/75586911.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirusspreads to 28 colonies in 30 days in Kota||Kota: Coronavirus has so far spread to 28 residential areas of the city in the past 30 days leaving at least 221 infected and nine dead so far. With the first case having been detected at Telghar in Bhimganjmandi area on April 6, Kota district data on Covid-19 cases revealed detection of at least 7 patients testing +ve per day and registering at least 50 +ve cases every week. As many as 40 people tested positive in the first week in Telghar and Bhimganjmandi area of the city but in the following weeks from April 13 onwards, the city witnessed a spike of 10 cases amounting to 50 new cases every week. From Bhimganjmandi area, it spread to nearly 8 km away in Makbara, Ghantaghar, Mokhapada, Patanpole, Kaithunipolice, Gandhiji ka Pul, Surajpole, Tipta areas within walled city in a week and then spread around 15 km away in Anantpura area. The virus has gripped at least 10 new colonies of the city in the last 11 days. Khedliphatak, Indra Market, Aakashvani Colony, Sanjay Nagar, Rangpur, Chawani, Timber Market, Keshavpura, Kunhari, Chawani Ramchandrapura, Gumanpura and Sindhi Colony are the new localities where the virus has spread in the last 11 days. According to Vijay Sardana, principal of the medical college in Kota, a 54-year-old man from Indra Market, who was admitted to the new medical college hospital on May 3 with respiratory complications and tested +ve on May 4, died during treatment around 5am on Tuesday while a 47-year-old man from Kunhari area of the city, admitted to the hospital on May 2 with hypertension and pneumonia and tested positive on May 3, died at 12.44pm on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coronavirusspreads-to-28-colonies-in-30-days-in-kota/articleshow/75586905.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Business||Liquor shares slump on duty hike||Bengaluru: Shares of spirits and beer companies were down for the second consecutive day after Karnataka followed other states in raising excise duty on alcohol. The state increased duty by 11%, over and above the 6% it proposed in the last budget. That is still low compared to 75% by Andhra Pradesh, 70% by Delhi and 30% by West Bengal. Haryana and Rajasthan have hinted at similar hikes, said industry officials. United Spirits, the largest drinks maker and controlled by Britain’s Diageo, has lost about 9% since Monday and closed at Rs 896 on Wednesday. Radico Khaitan lost 7%, Globus Spirits was down 3%, and United Breweries, maker of Kingfisher beer, was down 8% “State governments are under a lot of pressure to boost revenue and liquor is the only beating boy,” said Deepak Roy, executive vice chairman and CEO of Allied Blenders Distillers (ABD). “There should be a trade off between price and volumes and with these hikes, volumes will start dropping and the objective of raising more finances will not happen,” Roy, also chairman of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), added. Volume growth in India’s spirits industry was just 3% last year, compared to 10% a year earlier, impacted negatively by the national elections and subsequent sagging consumer demand. With two months of lockdown, about 16% of annual sales have literally vanished this year. Beer companies are under more pressure as the lockdown has come at the onset of the summer season which comprises the bulk of sales. “All these increases will definitely be a dampener. We will have to wait and watch what the actual impact would be,” Shekhar Ramamurthy, managing director of United Breweries, said. “A calculated increase factoring in the purchasing power of the consumer is the way to go about it. At this point, liquor companies are also facing the cost inflation and it is time that the government also considers re-looking at manufacturers’ viability and consumers affordability,” said Amar Sinha, chief operating officer at Radico Khaitan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/liquor-shares-slump-on-duty-hike/articleshow/75586070.cms||Avik Das
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Business hit, but he continues to feed many mouths||CHENNAI: When the national lockdown was announced, Alexander Athisayanathan was worried about his future. The small restaurant he had started in Perambur a little over a year ago had just begun to yield profits, and he was forced to shut it down. But then he thought about the scores of homeless and underprivileged people who would be going without a single square meal a day, and he pushed his concerns aside. Instead, he decided to do whatever he could to make a difference in the lives of the lesser privileged. "The first 10 days were bad as I kept wondering what to do," says Athisayanathan, who worked with an NGO for 15 years before starting out on his own. "But then, with the help of some like-minded friends, I decided to help others." Now his restaurant, Come And Dine, is always abuzz with activity. "From April 19, we have been distributing survival kits. Each kit contains food -- vegetable biryani, curd rice, bisi bele bath – a water bottle, one soap, one mask, and any fruit, either two bananas or two oranges, " he says, adding that they have distributed over 2,000 kits so far. "About 10 to 15 volunteers help me cook and distribute the kits to pavement dwellers and other poor people," says Athisayanathan, who was feeding about 10 homeless people even before the lockdown. Though he wants to keep the initiative going as long as possible, he hopes more people will support the cause. "Earlier, my restaurant was open for breakfast and dinner. Now, I am busy with cooking and distributing kits from 6am till noon. Only from 3pm to 9pm I am open for business, and only for takeaways," says Athisayanathan, adding that he’s just about breaking even. "Several friends have been sponsoring the meals for a day, and I hope others will come forward to help. I want to do this as long as people as these people really need support."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biz-hit-but-he-continues-to-feed-many-mouths/articleshow/75586913.cms||Priya Menon
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Depleting stock of blood sparks red alert in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The city may start facing shortage of blood because donors haven’t been able to reach blood banks and hospitals because of lack of public transport. Currently, no buses, taxis or autorickshaws are being allowed to ply in the city. The few who have been able to reach hospitals have had to use private vehicles or are being picked up and dropped by those requesting the blood. Though the demand has come down because of elective surgeries being rescheduled and fewer road accidents due to traffic restrictions, blood banks are struggling to replenish their stock. While SOS messages are being sent to donors, they are finding it hard to reach hospitals. “I put out a message on social media for four units of blood for my brother who has cancer. Though a few people were willing to donate, they didn’t have the means to get to the hospital,” said Saif Rehman, whose brother is admitted at AIIMS. Rubina, an attendant of a patient at a private hospital in Shalimar Bagh, managed to collect four units of blood in two days by offering pick up and drop service to the donors. “My mother is a cancer patient and urgently required blood for a third major operation. I had to struggle to find donors as the hospital was short of blood,” she added. Hospital authorities, however, said they have sufficient stock to meet any eventuality. Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) has stepped up measures to ensure availability of blood. It has started pick and drop facilities for donors and set up a 24x7 control room for people in need. The bank will provide 60-70 units of blood daily to thalassemia patients registered with it. IRCS secretary general RK Jain said a new helpline — 011-23359379 — was started last month. Two other helplines — 9319982105 and 9319982104 — were made operational later. “Even though supply and demand have reduced, we have to ensure people in need get uninterrupted service. Some demands cannot be deferred,” he added. Dr Vanshree Singh, director of IRCS blood bank, said they have been holding camps across the city and volunteers have been coming in batches of four in a gap of six hours to donate blood. “The average blood collection is 50-90 units daily, depending on the location where the camp is held,” she added. Union ministry of health and family welfare had earlier stated that collection and transportation of blood and blood components had become a challenge. State blood transfusion councils were facing difficulties in getting permission for movement of mobile vans, transportation vans. Voluntary donors were finding it difficult to reach centres and camps despite having appointment letters. In an order issued under Section 22 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, all district magistrates and DCPs were asked to facilitate unhindered movement of blood transportation vans as well as donors. The order stated that blood mobile teams would be identified through permission letters from state blood transfusion councils and donor appointment letters issued by licensed centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/depleting-stock-of-blood-sparks-red-alert/articleshow/75586930.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Many numbers for those in distress, but babus don’t answer||CHENNA: Calls to at least half of the 22 nodal officers responsible for the movement of stranded guest workers went unanswered or their lines remained unreachable on Wednesday. The state government has appointed senior IAS officer Atulya Misra as the state’s nodal officer and deputed 22 other IAS officers for handling the issue of guest labourers, pilgrims and students hailing from different states who are stuck in Tamil Nadu, and Tamils are stranded in other states. While a few officials turned off their mobile phones, several other officials’ numbers were not reachable. Several landline numbers provided on the list also went unanswered. A staff member who attended one of the landline numbers said he has no idea about guest workers. Nearly 5 lakh workers’ data has been uploaded in the labour department’s portal following a survey carried out from April 7. Among them, around 2.5 lakh guest workers, pilgrims and students and patients who had come for treatment to TN hospitals have opted for going back to their respective states. Similarly, around 43,000 Tamils in other parts of the country and more than 50,000 Tamils living abroad have also registered in the portal for returning to TN. Officials tasked to handle the movement of migrants to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, where from more than 50% of the workforce in TN hail, were out of reach when contacted multiple times. Senior IAS officer Rajesh Lakhoni’s office gave a feedback that so far 80 people (10 am to 5 pm on Wednesday) have sought help from his office to register their names in the portal. People also approach to know the status of their applications, the official said. A junior IAS official said many of them have switched off their phones, unable to attend the flurry of calls, ever since the numbers were released by the government. Meanwhile, migrant labourers and Tamils stranded outside the state fumed over the lack of response from the officers. "We are going through hell. If we get back to our homes, it will be a big relief. But officials in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are not helpful," said Arun of Kovilpatti, stranded in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-numbers-for-those-in-distress-but-babus-dont-answer/articleshow/75586896.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||138 Iran evacuees airlifted to Leh||JAISALMER: The IAF airlifted 138 Iran evacuees from Jodhpur to Leh on Wednesday. Of these, 91 evacuees were under quarantine in Jodhpur, while 47 were under quarantine in Jaisalmer. Those who were in Jaisalmer were first taken to Jodhpur, from where a special IAF plane flew them to Leh. A total of 484 Indian citizens were airlifted from Iran to Jaisalmer military station in March. Of these, 478 have been sent to their states, while six are still under quarantine. Similarly, 552 Iran evacuees were airlifted to Jodhpur where they were placed in quarantine in the military station. All of them have now been sent back to their home states, except for the two who died and whose bodies were sent to Leh earlier. Except for Jammu & Kashmir and Leh-Ladakh residents, the people from other states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, among others, were asked to take road routes with own transport arrangements to reach their home states. The residents of these states suffered problems and spent a big amount to undertake the tedious journey of 2000-3000 km after the guideline issued by the Centre. The ministry of home affairs had issued guidelines for other states’ residents to go to their homes at their own cost. Many of them who had come from Iran were from middle class families and from farmer families. Many of them did not have the money to go back to their homes and had to take loans to reach home. Saiyed Shazadi Begum of Karnool in Andhra Pradesh said in a disappointing tone that they were airlifted from Iran and brought to Jaisalmer. She tested negative and now she has been asked to go home on her own. She does not have the money for it and her house is around 2,200 km away and she could not go alone. In such a situation, she had to take a loan and along with other students of nearby areas, she shared a taxi and left for her home. Despite that she had to spend Rs 18,000. She said that students of J&K were sent home by plane, while residents of other states have been asked to go on their own expense and in this way, the government has discriminated against them. Punuwar Bhaskar, a teacher and a resident of Bhopal said that she is teaching at Kendriya Vidyalaya under home ministry, government of India at Iran and she was brought to Jaisalmer and that she wants to thank the army for taking care of them. She was asked to return home on her own expense, but she did not have the money. The distance to Bhopal from Jaisalmer is around 1,100 km and she somehow reached home by spending Rs 25,000 (fare of two sides) by taking a loan. Saiyed Abbas, a student, who is a resident of Chiklabur, which is around 2,100 km away, had to travel on his own, which cost him a lot. He along with other students left for their homes by a private vehicle and each student spent around Rs 20,000-22,000 and he had to take a loan for it. Along with him were other students from Kerala, Tamil Nadu etc. A travel contractor from Jaisalmer Aditya Sharma, who had helped these students said that he has given more than Rs 1.25 lakh to the students, who will repay him in instalments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/138-iran-evacuees-airlifted-to-leh/articleshow/75586919.cms||Vimal Bhatia
May 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur set to receive returnees||Kannur: After successfully containing the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the authorities are all set to ensure the homecoming of the expatriates will not pose a challenge. In Kannur, local bodies have readied quarantine facilities and arrangements for surveillance of people under home quarantine. The action plan of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is to introduce a new initiative, ‘Lock the House’, to ensure that people coming from other states or abroad do not step out of their house, using physical surveillance and also using technology. Houses where people are on quarantine, the authorities would paste a sticker, ‘This house is under the protection of the district administration’. “As of now, we are successful in preventing any communal transmission of the disease. Apart from some people who came from abroad, only a few primary contacts of these people tested positive, thanks to our vigil and we should make sure the relaxation in the lockdown will in no way reduce the vigil,” said district collector TV Subhash. IG Vijay Sakhare, who coordinated the policing in Kasaragod in the wake of Covid, said those who come from outside should remain indoors during the quarantine period. Those with symptoms of the disease will have to stay in institutional quarantine facilities and the others at their home. All these houses and surrounding areas would be under triple lockdown and under police surveillance, said the IG. The restriction on people’s movement should not make life miserable for them, and the indiscriminate blocking of roads should be avoided, said Congress leaders who met higher officials in Kannur on Wednesday. The decision of police to close many roads, without informing the local bodies concerned, should be reviewed and there should be coordination among the officials of the police, revenue and health departments regarding the blocking of the roads, said the leaders led by MP K Sudhakaran and others. For the last few days, many roads in Kannur district have been closed, thus preventing the movement of people even for genuine reasons, following which the Congress leaders made the representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-set-to-receive-returnees/articleshow/75584640.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens blame forest dept of negligence in gaur’s death||Mangaluru: The straying of a gaur aged around 8-10, into the city, followed by its death on Tuesday, brought difference to the fore between environmental activists and forest officials. Greens are blaming forest officials of negligence, and feel that the situation could have been handled more responsibly. Accusing forest officials of negligence for the death of the bison, Dinesh Holla, convenor, Sahyadri Sanchaya, said, “On spotting the bison, people screamed and yelled, which caused the animal to panic. There have been several instances in the past, of animals dying of an overdose while being tranquillised. Every circle must have a veterinarian to deal with such cases.” Countering these allegations, Dakshina Kannada deputy conservator of forests V Karikalan said, “It was one of those rare situations, where the animal had entered the city, where there are many buildings and houses, and children playing around. We had to take a balanced call, so that no one gets harmed. We tried to drive the gaur away till 11.30am, and even when the animal was in close range, we did not dart it. Once it started running into compounds, we had to take dart it. The animal was under observation between 2.30pm-4.30pm. It drank water, slept and woke up, but collapsed suddenly. There are plenty of challenges in such operations. One cannot predict animal behaviour. In case there was a forest close by, we would have chased it into the forest. It is unfortunate that the animal died,” he said, adding that the department is trying its best to drive the second bison which has strayed into the city, into the forest. Veterinarian Dr Vinay from Shivamogga is coming here to help in the operation to drive the second gaur into the forest, he said. Meanwhile, officials have been demanding for the appointment of veterinary officers in all circles of the state. Demand for powerful drug In the wake of rising man-animal conflicts, veterinarians are demanding for etorphine hydrochloride, which is a drug used to tranquillise animals. Currently, it is available only at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, said Dr Puneet, veterinary officer, animal husbandry and veterinary services department. He said that etorphine hydrochloride is referred to as the synthetic cousin of morphine. Etorphine is a semi-synthetic opioid possessing an analgesic potency approximately 1,000–3,000 times that of morphine. A narcotic analgesic morphinan used as a sedative in veterinary practice. “The drug is safe to use while capturing an animal, and is used in India to capture elephants, rhinos and bisons. The drug costs more than Rs 80,000 for 10ml. Currently, in Karnataka, a combination of xylazine and ketamine is used to tranquillise animals, and a procedure called standing sedation is used for the purpose. The darting needs to be perfect, and in case of an overdose, can even cause the animal to die. Using xylazine could lead to hypertension and respiratory distress, and when the animal is being treated, it needs to be closely monitored. However, using etorphine hydrochloride will ensure that the animal recovers quickly, after being tranquillised,” said Dr Puneet. Overdose suspected Vinay L Shetty, state member, Animal Welfare Board of India, suspects that an overdose of the tranquilliser caused the gaur to die. He said, “The department has hidden facts from the public. We heard about the death at 6pm, but it was confirmed only at 9pm. As we are waiting for the copy of the postmortem report, we suspect that an overdose of the tranquiliser caused the animal to die. Was the animal checked for rabies? What was the need to burn the carcass in a hurry?” he questioned, blaming forest officials for negligence. Make postmortem report public Activist Gerard Towers has urged the forest department to make the postmortem report of the gaur that died on Monday, public. He suspects that an overdose of the tranquilliser led to the death of the bison. Towers has approached the Barke police with a complaint, stating that the death of the gaur was not natural, and the manner in which the animal was captured was unscientific. “I expect the forest department to act responsibly in dealing with such cases in the future,” he added. Second gaur resting on banks of Phalguni River Mangaluru: Forest department officials have adopted a wait-and-watch policy for the second gaur that was spotted near Ashoknagar, late on Tuesday. As the day progressed, the animal made its way towards the Phalguni River via Kodikal, Fourth Mile, even as local forest staff kept a vigil on it from a distance. As the day progressed, the gaur was seen resting in a pool of river water, on the banks of the Phalguni, adjacent to the new bridge. V Karikalan, district forest officer, who supervised the operation, said the gaur had crossed the river. At present, it is resting in a pool of water and eating the vegetation abutting it. “We have kept fresh water in a basket, close to where the gaur is,” the DFO said. The plan is to ensure that the animal is driven on the SEZ road towards Thokur, which leads to its natural surroundings, once traffic abates, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-blame-forest-dept-of-negligence-in-gaurs-death/articleshow/75582988.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Local admin empowered to recruit health workers||GANDHINAGAR: To address the shortage of doctors, nurses and other paramedical workers in Covid-19 hospitals, the state health department has empowered municipal commissioners and collectors to directly recruit medical personnel according to local requirements without any restrictions on reimbursement. A senior official said the circular issued to all collectors and municipal commissioners, authorizes them to recruit doctors, nurses and other medical workers according to their requirements.  “The circular states that these medical personnel can be appointed on full-time or part-time basis. There will be no restrictions on the amount that can be paid to competent doctors and medical staff,” the official said. “The local authorities have been empowered to recruit through walk-in interviews or even engage recruitment agencies if required. Local authorities can also relax norms if availability is low,” the circular issued by the state health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/local-admin-empowered-to-recruit-health-workers/articleshow/75586978.cms||Kapil Dave
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||11 prisoners, 3 cops test coronavirus positive in Ahmedabad central jail||AHMEDABAD: A total of 11 prisoners, and three policemen who handled their admission to Ahmedabad Central Prison have tested positive for Covid-19. While the cops have been admitted SVP Hospital, the 11 prisoners were taken to Civil Hospital, said D V Rana, deputy superintendent of police, Ahmedabad Cental Prison. Rana said the three policemen were part of the checking party of twelve that handled the prisoners’ admission on April 30. “All 12 were then home quarantined and tested for Covid-19. Three them were found to be positive,” he added. Earlier, four persons accused of rioting and deemed not infected by local police turned out to be infected when the jail authorities had them tested at Civil Hospital. Another convict who returned after his interim bail expired had tested positive at the time. All of them were sent for treatment,” said Rana. Rana added that on May 4, three more prisoners who have been assigned ‘open jail’, meaning they are assigned work outside involving manual labour or other tasks, and had gone on parole, tested positive for Covid-19 on reporting back. On the same day, two other who convicts who had gone on parole also return. “We kept them outside the prison in a separate enclosure and got them tested. They also tested positive for Covid-19,” added a jail official. Jail officials said that on May 4, a prisoner was transferred to Ahmedabad Central Jail to get treatment at a mental hospital. On his return from the hospital, he was tested and was also found to be infected, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-prisoners-3-cops-test-ve-in-ahmedabad-central-jail/articleshow/75586981.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Patient count exceeds capacity at regional Covid-19 centre||Aurangabad: The regional Covid-19 centre-cum-district civil hospital in the Chikalthana area ran out of space on Wednesday, forcing the authorities to adjust the beds to accommodate patients. The centre has a total intake capacity of 140 patients, but 149 Covid positive patients have already been admitted to the facility. The day witnessed a heated exchange of words between the authorities from the health department, zilla parishad, civic body and the district administration. The Covid centre officials argued that the centre was meant for non-serious Covid patients and that it was packed to capacity. However, the authorities insisted that more patients be admitted there. When contacted, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said, “We are working to the best of our abilities. We have an intake capacity of 140 indoor patients at our hospital, but 148 are currently being treated for Covid-19.” As a policy matter, the district administration, civic body and the health department have unanimously decided that only critical Covid-19 positive cases would be referred and admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, which has reserved an entire building besides keeping aside dedicated resident doctors, senior medicos and class-IV staffers for the purpose. With no space to admit fresh patients at the civil hospital, the health authorities were in a dilemma about the hospital to which the woman health staffer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, who tested positive on Wednesday morning, should be admitted to. Amidst the confusion, the health team that went to pick up the woman health worker, a resident of Bajajnagar area had to wait for at least four hours before the ambulance took the patient to the hospital. The delay in the admission saw the police team and the health staff standing outside the house of infected woman and unnecessarily getting exposed for hours. Senior police officers too expressed their concerns over the lack of coordination between the health authorities belonging to different institutions. “As the woman is resident of a rural area, it is the duty of the civil surgeon to admit her to their hospital. It is wrong on their part to blame the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation for the same,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/patient-count-exceeds-capacity-at-regional-covid-19-centre/articleshow/75584648.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Fresh locust attack in border districts||Jaisalmer: While the entire country is fighting the pandemic, farmers in many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts are worried about fresh locust attacks from Pakistan border for the last two days. At a time when Jaisalmer administrations is making efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19, their attention is now diverted in dealing with locusts. Swarms of pink locusts were seen in Longewala, Kishangarh, Tanot, Ramgarh, Lathi and Chandhan in Jaisalmer district and in Gadra area of Barmer district. On Wednesday, the district administration held a meeting with BSF officers in regard to locust attacks as the insects were destroying vegetables, especially cattle feed. Farmers have once again have started shooing away locusts by beating plates and utensils. Pakistan has failed in controlling locusts in their areas and now these locusts have started entering the two districts. Farmers are worried that this year too these locusts would destroyed their crops. Farmer Hindu Singh Talmor said locusts coming from across the border were damaging crops and vegetables in addition to cattle feed. Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta said they held a meeting with BSF and requested them to immediately inform the district administration if they see locusts along border areas. The locust department has also directed the setting up of a few camps near BSF border outposts. Mehta has also issued an order and formed committee/teams at the subdivisional level for continuous monitoring of locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-locust-attack-in-border-districts/articleshow/75586932.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Sealed building turned into biggest Covid-19 care centre in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: With 700 beds for Covid-19 cases, Jodhpur is on the way to setting up the state’s largest facility outside any government hospital. Amid the steady escalation of the positive cases in Jodhpur, a closed building of a medical college in Boranada was acquired for the purpose and was readied within two weeks to accommodate cases. “This is a major step with a view to reduce the burden on government hospitals with their limited bed capacities considering the spurt in cases in Jodhpur,” said SDM (Luni) Gopal Parihar. He said the building was a private medical college, which had been shut about 7 years back and had been seized by a bank which had financed the project.“We acquired the building considering its location and the setup it housed on account of being a medical college. Within 2 weeks, we undertook necessary repairing work, arranging amenities and medical equipment along with a team of doctors,” said Parihar. Today the facility has more than 300 positive Covid-19 cases undergoing treatment and preparations are underway to scale up the bed capacity to 700. Currently, Jodhpur has 410 beds dedicated to Covid-19 cases while MDM Hospital has 500 beds. But the MDM Hospital administration is preparing to reduce them in order to accommodate other indoor patients gradually. Before this, Jodhpur had achieved a feat of developing the state’s biggest quarantine centre in Anganwa village on the city outskirts with a capacity of accommodating 2,000 suspects. This building was built under the PM Awaas Yojna but all the 1,072 flats had been lying vacant with no facilities like electricity, water and sewage available. ADM Mahipal Bhardwaj said all facilities were arranged in a week and quarantined persons began to be shifted here. Though, some videos by the quarantined inmates went viral pointing to lack of facilities and violation of the quarantine protocol, but the administration claimed that all facilities were being made available there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sealed-building-turned-into-biggest-covid-19-care-centre/articleshow/75586926.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Business||Walmart gains from corporate tax slash in India||BENGALURU: Walmart’s annual filings have revealed that the corporate income tax cut in India last year helped its earnings per share (EPS) by 11 cents during the fiscal. This comes even as there was a negative impact of impairment in operations, including the writedown of Jabong’s valuation. Walmart’s adjusted EPS stood at $4.93 for fiscal 2020, according to a company filing late last month. “India enacted a reduction of the corporate income tax rate in late 2019 and that led to the EPS gain,” said Walmart spokesperson Randy Hargrove when contacted by TOI. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced about a 10% cut in corporate income tax in September 2019 to boost the economy. The filing also reveals that Judith McKenna, the CEO of the international business for Walmart, was awarded $1 million of retention stock in the company for her work on online retail major Flipkart and its payments unit PhonePe. Walmart had acquired a 77% stake in Flipkart for $16 billion in Augustin 2018 in its biggest global bet, with McKenna the point person for the deal. Walmart said that McKenna “has responsibilities comparable to many CEO positions within our peer group companies, and that it is likely that she would be recruited for a CEO position in the retail industry or elsewhere”. McKenna’s total compensation for fiscal 2020 stood at $9.6 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walmart-gains-from-corp-tax-slash-in-india/articleshow/75586105.cms||Madhav Chanchani
May 7, 2020||Business||India fund closed due to new rules, says Franklin CEO||BENGALURU: Franklin Templeton’s global CEO Jennifer M Johnson has blamed markets regulator Sebi’s October 2019 decision to allow mutual funds to invest only 10% in unlisted instruments as one of the reasons for the problems that the fund’s India arm is facing now. In its earnings call, Johnson also said in India, where the corporate debt market is yet to develop, “anything below AAA is considered non-investment grade”. So we’ve had … six funds that were invested with a lot of this kind of private debt.” On April 24, Franklin Templeton MF in India closed down six of its debt funds, managing nearly Rs 25,900 crore worth of assets. It had blamed increasing redemptions in the face of slower inflows, while the debt market remained nearly frozen due to coronavirus-related issues. In October last year, Sebi, with the main objective of making debt mutual funds safer for investors, had said that by March 2020, fund houses should reduce their exposure to unlisted non-convertible debentures (NCDs). This deadline has further been extended to June 2020 due to coronavirus-related market disruptions. Further, to reduce the possibility of a fire sale of such papers, Sebi had also allowed fund managers to keep existing unlisted papers in their portfolio till maturity. In the call, the Franklin Templeton boss said that the Sebi order basically left some of its debt funds no choice. Unfortunately, the Sebi guidelines neither allowed its funds to have more than 10% in a fund nor they could trade those papers. “So, that orphaned about a third of our fund there,” she said. In the conference call, Johnson also talked about the impact of the coronavirus-related pandemic and how the freezing of the Indian debt market impacted the firm’s funds, which globally managed about $700 billion by end-December. “It just got to the point with the pandemic where, essentially, the market froze up and you had increasing redemptions. There were a couple of defaults there in India. And things like Vodafone ended up in default because the Supreme Court ruled against them. And so that created a bit of a run on the funds,” Johnson said. “And we looked at it and just decided the only way to really preserve the value for our investors was to halt any kind of subscriptions and redemptions and really go into wind-down mode.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-fund-closed-due-to-new-rules-says-franklin-ceo/articleshow/75586127.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 60 vendors booked ; cops test Covid-19 positive||AHMEDABAD: In an unprecedented action, Sola police on Wednesday booked more than 60 vegetable vendors from several places in Sola area. When Sola police took all the vegetable vendors for a Covid-19 test, one of them was found to be positive. This was enough for four policemen of Sola police station to be home quarantined. In another, incident the gunman of B Division ACP L B Zala was found to Covid-19 positive. He had undergone a test at a private laboratory. He was shifted to Civil Hospital for treatment. Zala and 10 policemen of his staff had to be home quarantined. Sources said that the four policemen from Sola and Zala and his staff have undergone Covid-19 test and the results will be available on Thursday. Cops had cracked down on vegetable vendors on Wednesday as they were identified as one of super spreaders of Covid-19 along with grocery store staff. “This was the reason that many vegetable vendors were booked for not stopping the gathering of more than four people around their hand carts,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-vendors-booked-cops-test-ve/articleshow/75587003.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Cops don PPE kits to shift people from narrow lanes in Rajasthan||UDAIPUR: The policemen in Nimbahera had to don Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and enter the congested colonies that have turned into hotspots with high number of people testing positive there. Policemen never used the kit before but when the medical team sought police assistance in shifting the families of the positive patients, around 12-15 men from the Kotwali police station including the SHO Harendra Souda, donned the kit and held the operation under the guidance of chief medical and health officer Piyush Pandey. “It took more than two hours for them to enter the congested narrow lanes of Lakhara Gali, Naya Bazaar and Maheshwari Mohalla and shift 137 people to different quarantine centres safely," Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava told TOI. The town had turned hotspot after some 100 positive cases and a death in ten days. The use of PPE is not new in law enforcement, but the rapidly evolving Covid-19 pandemic has placed a renewed focus on its significance. Officers tasked with enforcing quarantine or isolation orders face an increased risk of exposure to the coronavirus making the use of PPE by law enforcement officers increasingly common. On Tuesday, the district administration in Chittorgarh had to suspend milk supply to epicentre locality/colonies after suppliers refused to deliver milk in these areas. Chittorgarh collector Chetan Deora told TOI, “For people living in the epicentre which is the Lakhara street and the adjoining area, we got prepared dry milk powder packets of 500 gram each from the Dairy Sangh. We have purchased 2,000 packets which are being distributed in these colonies by the municipal staff.” The collector said in these areas the milk powder packets would be continued to supply but rest part of the city, milk supply would be resumed from Thursday morning. The officer informed that during sanitization the area staff and personnel engaged in coronacare centres and quarantine facilities are using PPE kits. Speaking about difficulties in donning and doffing the PPE, circle inspector Harendra Souda said policemen have to be extra cautious in handling the equipment as the improper use of the kits increase the risk of exposure. "It is a tedious procedure and one has to wash hands before and after donning PPE and after doffing it. Doffing can present additional risks in a situation where a person is uncomfortable and tired and hastily removes the PPE. Improper removing of gloves can cause inadvertent self-contamination by grabbing the outside of the glove on one hand with the other unprotected bare hand to remove it,” he said. The disposal of the PPE too has to be carefully done by the bio medical waste department to prevent cross contamination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-don-ppe-kits-to-shift-people-from-narrow-lanes/articleshow/75586948.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||35 new +ve patients take tally to 356; 1 more fatality in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad rose to 356 following a sharp spike of 35 new patients on Tuesday. Among the fresh cases, there is a police inspector’s son and a health staffer of the Aurangabad municipal corporation. As many as seven cases were reported from Jai Bheem Nagar, five from Kabadipura, four from Dattanagar – Kailashnagar, five from Baijipura, seven from Sanjaynagar-Mukundwadi, three from Pundaliknagar and one each from Begumpura, railway station area, Kabir Nagar-Osmanpura, and Satara area. The majority of the latest cases emerging are from the areas that have been declared as containment zones of Covid-19. Strict bandobast has been deployed at the major junctions, preventing any entry or exit from these areas. “Irrespective of the circumstances, we have been asked not to let any civilians to enter or exit these areas. Only the healthcare workers from the civic body and authorities from the district administration are being allowed to enter these areas to carry out preventive measures,” said a senior police officer stationed in the area. Out of the total active patients, 149 are being treated at district civil hospital, Chikalthana while 23 were being treated at Government Medical College and Hospital. Till Wednesday, 28 patients have recovered and discharged, while 11 have succumbed to the infection. Looking at the rising cases reported from Aurangabad, authorities are gearing up for new facilities in the civic body limits, informed sources in the civic administration. Authorities are keeping a close on the rising number of cases as the pressure is mounting on the health department. There were rumours of headed arguments between the district and civic administration over the issue. Apart from Aurangabad, Jalna has reported eight positive cases, Parbhani reported one and Hingoli reported 91 cases. Nanded also saw a rising case with 34 new patients, Beed reported one (was admitted and treated at Ahmednagar), Latur 23 and Osmanabad reported three positive cases. As on date, there are no active cases in Osmanabad, Beed, and Parbhani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/35-new-ve-patients-take-tally-to-356-1-more-fatality-in-city/articleshow/75584736.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro uses forced time out to overhaul trains for better cooling||NEW DELHI: Even as Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is preparing to resume operations after a go-ahead from the government, it has utilised the lockdown period to carry out a major overhaul of its trains. The refurbished trains are expected to minimise the biggest complaint DMRC receives during the summer months – reduced cooling of train air-conditioning systems. “We have turned the lockdown period to use by taking massive drive of thoroughly overhauling HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) system of the trains,” a DMRC official said. “The exercise is being undertaken with special chemicals for the first time as all the trains are standing in various depots during the lockdown. DMRC analysed the feedback received from commuters over the last two years and it was found that most of the issues during summers were related to less cooling, by HVACs,” he said. The corporation tested all HVACs from October 2019 to March 2019 and it was found that around 1,200 HVACs (one coach has two HVAC system) needed special cleaning. The issue was mostly in trains of its busiest corridors — Blue (Dwarka-Noida/Vaishali) and Yellow (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) Lines. “It was found that a lot of dust, dirt deposits, and scale formations in HVAC coils were difficult to get fully cleaned during regular maintenance using pressurised water, which may lead to under-performance of HVACs. Dust levels in Delhi NCR is a known contributor to these problems,” he said. “To tackle this deposit issue, a chemical composed of de-carboniser, de-scaler and neutraliser — approved by the Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO), Lucknow — is being used to clean the identified vulnerable 1,200 HVACs first,” he said. “De-scaler in the chemical being acidic in nature, inherently kills any microbes or germs that has made its way to the air passage and has accumulated over the coils,” he said. “This chemical treatment thoroughly cleans the coil improving the heat exchange rate and air flow rate of the coils thus increasing the cooling effectiveness of HVACs both on account of better cooling temperatures and ventilation,” he said. DMRC is also expecting better energy utilisation through this procedure. “Around 90% of all the 1,200 HVACs have been covered under the drive and the remaining 10% are expected to be covered within a week. Another 850 have been planned and expected to be completed before May 18,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-uses-forced-time-out-to-overhaul-trains-for-better-cooling/articleshow/75586975.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Whipping up sanitisers to stay safe, healthy||MANGALURU: An engineer from here, successfully designed a foot-operated sanitiser stand (FOSS), which can be used without using one’s hands. Arjun K Punja, who developed and donated FOSS units to many government hospitals, offices and police stations in Bantwal, has been receiving bulk orders from banks and different institutions. Hence, he has decided to manufacture FOSS units in bulk, and sell them to help the poor, who are suffering during the lockdown, through Sevanjali Prathishtana Farangipete, a charitable organisation in Bantwal taluk. Punja, who is the trustee of Sevanjali Prathishtana, has also developed a foot-operated basin for washing hands, that has been donated to a police station in Mangaluru. With the FOSS and wash basin developed by Punja, one need not touch the tap of the wash basin or press the sanitiser container. Punja said that his innovations help in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. “I have received orders for nearly 300 FOSS units. At present, it is being manufactured at a hall in Farangipete. It costs around Rs 1,000 to manufacture a unit. At present, it is being sold at Rs 1,450 per unit. The profit earned is being utilised to distribute food kits to poor families suffering due to the lockdown, through the prathishtana. We have already distributed more than 300 food kits to poor families. The sale of FOSS units is a good financial back up, for our food kit distribution programme,” Punja said. Punja has distributed more than 50 FOSS units to many public offices. “KS Hegde Medical Academy has been using the FOSS units at its campus in Deralakatte. Dakshina Kannada police has plans to procure FOSS units for all their police stations. MIT student makes, distributes sanitisers to poorSimar Sharma, a third-year biotechnology student from Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) at MAHE, has helped the underprivileged, in and around Kolkata . She hails from West Bengal. She prepared and distributed hand sanitisers to daily wage workers, vegetable and fish vendors, quarantine homes, and people living in the slums in Kolkata, who live in unhygienic conditions, and cannot afford to buy hand sanitisers. She prepared the hand sanitiser using iso-propyl alcohol, glycerol, essential oils and water. Simar has successfully made 150 bottles of sanitisers at home, while adhering to the safety standards set by the WHO. The sanitisers are 80% alcohol-based. Simar said, “My professors and friends helped me in gathering all the required material. In fact, donations from across various parts of the country are pouring in, and it has motivated me to produce three more batches of sanitisers, which will be approximately 600l. I have collaborated with the police, to distribute these in marketplaces and slums, where they are needed the most.”  D Srikanth Rao, director, Manipal Institute of Technology, MAHE said, “We at MIT strive to build an accepting environment to foster creativity and out-of-the-box thinking among our students. Our incubation centre has always encouraged our students to think for themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/whipping-up-sanitisers-to-stay-safe-healthy/articleshow/75584647.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||Parts of Posta to be sealed from today||KOLKATA: The government will seal pockets of Posta, a portion of which houses city’s biggest wholesale market for essential commodities, for a week starting Thursday to stop the transmission of novel coronavirus. Despite several measures, people from the area continue to test positive to Covid-19. The business hub emerged as a problem point for the administration after multiple Covid-19 cases were reported from various pockets in the past few weeks. The cops barricaded several neighbourhoods and imposed other restrictions, but cases kept increasing along with deaths of at least four people. When two people from the area tested positive on Tuesday again, the local administration decided to cut-off the affected pockets from the rest of the area. Cops have assured that the supply of essential commodities from the wholesale market of Posta will not be disrupted as they are making special arrangements, like deploying more police for smooth passage of vehicles. The cops started announcing over public address system informing residents that Hanspukur Lane, Hanspukur First Lane, Hanspukur 2nd Lane, Shiv Thakur Lane and all its bylanes, Ganguly Lane and apart of Cotton Street will be sealed from Thursday. The residents were also told to arrange for rations which will last them for over a week because nobody will be allowed to step out of their buildings for the next one week. Only those in severe medical emergency will be allowed to step out of their home. “Some pockets of the ward will be sealed to stop the transmission of the virus. We have been reaching out to people making them aware of social distancing norms and compliance to lockdown. Some of the pockets from where cases have been reported are being sealed,” said local councillor Vijay Ojha. According to officers of Posta police station, close to 5,000 people reside in the pocket that will remain sealed between May 7 and May 15. All the areas are in ward 23. Police started sealing off several access points to the area on Wednesday afternoon. “People cannot step out of their buildings in any situation. They have been told to stock ration that will last at least a week. If they need anything, they can get in touch with the cops on duty in the area,” said an officer of Posta police station. Only those with health emergencies will be allowed to step out. Residents who have their business outside the containment zone will also not be allowed to leave their homes. “It is very important to comply with the new guidelines for the next one week to cut the transmission chain or else cases will keep rising,” said an official in the local administration. “We have kept the supply chain active since the start of the lockdown. Sealing of portions of Posta will not impact the supply of essential commodities as we are taking special precautions. The drivers and labourers will wear masks at all times. We will also keep in constant touch with police,” said Biswanath Aggarwal, general secretary of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Welfare Association. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parts-of-posta-to-be-sealed-from-today/articleshow/75589132.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 7, 2020||Jaipur||Cop suspended for venturinginto red zone||Kota: District special team (DST) in-charge sub-inspector Abdul Mazeed was suspended by superintendent of police, Baran district on Tuesday for having ventured out of district headquarters into Manhorethana area of Jhalawar district, which is a corona red zone district. Constant attempts were made to contact the sub-inspector Abdul Mazeed on Tuesday but he did not receive the repeated calls and on examination of his phone location, it was traced in Manhorethana area of Jhalawar district, Baran SP Dr Ravi said in the suspension order issued on Tuesday evening. Amid the lockdown, the SI is not allowed to leave his headquarters without permission but SI Abdul Mazeed neither informed his senior officials nor did he seek prior permission for it, he further said adding that the SI has violated the lockdown norms by moving across the district border, into another district which has been declared a hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-suspended-for-venturinginto-red-zone/articleshow/75586973.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kial all set to receive expats||Kannur: Though Kannur International Airport is not in the preliminary list of airports to bring the evacuated expatriates from the Gulf countries, the facility is well equipped to receive them and the flights are likely to start operation for next week, said the airport officials. Ever since Norka started the registration for the return of the expatriates, the airport had made arrangements as many expatriates have opted for this airport. “We have got the information that the Air India Express has expressed their willingness to operate flight to Kannur and it has been communicated to the ministry of civil aviation, so it is quite likely that the operations would start next week, though the official announcement is yet to come,” said Kial managing director V Thulasidas. The first list is for the first one week, he said. Apart from training the staff, the disinfection has also been completed and the system to conduct emigration and customs examination apart from the health check up is ready. The staff who deal with the people will wear PPE kit and everything would be done as per protocol. Even the baggage would be disinfected and the permission for the expatriates to go out from the airport would be as per the guidelines issued by the health department. Kannur is the most accessible airport for the people of Kannur and Kasaragod districts from where many people are in the UAE, and as of now over 69,000 people have opted for this airport though it is not in the initial list. Following this, political parties had launched a campaign and demanded the Centre to include Kial in the list. When the people from here are brought to other airports it would be difficult to transport them to the quarantine centres or their respective houses, said CPM leaders. Though the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan is from Kannur, the airport has not been included in the first list and the people have the right to know why, said the party. The Congress also said the Centre should include Kannur in the list of airports to bring the expatriates. “The airport had made all arrangements in the hope that the airlines would land here with the expatriates and hence the central government should make sure it finds place at least in the next list,” said Kannur DCC president Sathesan Pacheni. Kial gets Plant Quarantine licence The airport has also got Plant Quarantine licence ahead of the permission for the export of fruits and vegetables, which is likely to be a new source of revenue for the airport once the operation begins after the lockdown. Since the cargo complex is in the final stage of construction, and other licensing processes are on, the plant quarantine licence is a major step forward, and the expectation is that the export licence would be given soon, said the Kial officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kial-all-set-to-receive-expats/articleshow/75584692.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Patna||Seven new cases recorded in state, total rises to 535||Patna: Seven new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the total to 535 in the state. Katihar accounted for five of the cases adding to the existing tally of five cases in the district, while one case each was recorded in Kaimur and Siwan. Altogether 13 people fully recovered and were discharged from various dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state in the past 24 hours. The total number of cured patients has gone up to 142, while the number of active cases in the state stands at 389 and four persons have died. According to Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health), of the new cases in Katihar, three persons are from Korha block, including two males (four and 28 years old) and a six-month old female child. “One male (36) from Lohiya Nagar block and a 25-year-old woman in Kadwa block in Katihar; a 2-year-old child in Bhabhua, Kaimur and another male (3-year-old) in Basantpur, Siwan also tested positive,” he said. Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid- 19 told this newspaper that all new cases came in contact with positive persons, who had returned to Bihar from Delhi and Gurgaon amid the lockdown. “The positive case in Kaimur was infected by his 65-year-old grandfather, who returned from Delhi after April 20,” she said. The number of positive cases in Siwan has gone up to 33 and 31 in Kaimur. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, said six patients, including three women, were discharged on Tuesday after their reports came negative. According to a bulletin issued by the NMCH, of the total cured patients, two men aged 62 and 34 years and three women (20, 55 and 68) were from Jamalpur, Munger, while a 35-year-old man is from Naya Bhojpur, Buxar. The other seven recovered patients are from Rohtas (three, including a female), Buxar (3) and one in Sitamarhi. Dr Mukul said, “Three more patients tested negative on Tuesday and they would be discharged once their X-ray and other health check-ups are done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-new-cases-recorded-in-state-total-rises-to-535/articleshow/75574431.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Meeting held for deployment of forces in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha held a meeting with senior IAS officers — Rajiv Gupta, Mukesh Kumar and K Kailashnathan — and Ahmedabad city police chief Ashish Bhatia on Wednesday evening. They discussed a plan for the deployment of paramilitary forces in the city. According to police sources, DGP Jha and other senior officers then went to the police commissioner’s office, where they called all the zones’ deputy police commissioners and gave them a briefing. After about half an hour briefing, DGP Jha and police commissioner Bhatia along with other senior officers went to containment areas of the Walled City and also to the red zone areas. Here, they took stock of the situation. Sources said that they also discussed the points and places where the paramilitary forces are supposed to be deployed. “Along with city police and other agencies, the paramilitary forces will man the containment zones and red zone areas. The paramilitary forces may also conduct a flag march in other areas of the city,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meeting-held-for-deployment-of-forces/articleshow/75586976.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Udaipur||Lockdown rejuvenates lakes, avian life in Udaipur district||UDAIPUR: As the world continues to grapple with coronavirus, the pandemic is having some unexpected side effects, few good ones for the ecology. Udaipur, one of the biggest tourist attractions of the state, which is usually teeming with visitors throughout the year, wears a deserted and forlorn look. Right now, when the whole country is under lockdown as coronavirus continues to spread, locals in Udaipur have noticed that the water in the city's lakes has become much clearer, with small fishes visible swimming around and many varieties of chirping birds. “The water now looks clearer because there is less traffic around the lake side, boating activities are completely stopped allowing the sediment to stay at the bottom,” Tej Shankar Paliwal, an activist who lives near the shores of Lake Pichhola says. “It’s because there is less boat traffic that usually brings sediment to the top of the water's surface. I can see small fishes in the water and some water birds playing merrily on the water surface, which were not seen for the past few years,” Paliwal said. Though water pollution may not have much decreased drastically, the amount of dissolved oxygen (DO) has increased considerably in a month, says data accumulated by the pollution control board office. In Pichhola, the DO amount which was 6.8 in March has increased to 8.2 mg per litre, while in Fatehsagar, the amount has improved by 1.8 mg per litre in a month. Similarly, the acidic property has also reduced as the potential of hydrogen (PH), indicator has gone up. Before lockdown, the PH level of lake Pichhola and Fatehsagar was 7.9 and 8.3 mg/litre which has now improved to 8.16 and 8.7, respectively. The TDS (total dissolved solids) has come down in the lake water which is an indicator of the improving health of the lakes. “The air, water quality has considerably improved in Udaipur during the lockdown since all the industrial units are shut down and there is almost zero public movement around the lakes. Water is less polluted without boat traffic and cause of the restricted movement of residents,” B R Panwar, the regional officer of the pollution control board said. Besides, air and water quality, avian life is also buzzing with activities these days as humans are under lockdown, birds are not. House sparrows, crows are visible in good numbers these days which had almost got invisible in the recent past. “House sparrows have lived around humans for centuries. During the lockdown, their movement, reproduction and feeding habits have witnessed interesting changes,” Vinay Dave, an ornithologist says. The expert, who has put up artificial nests for these small birds, has found that a male bird of the specie has two female partners living in two separate nests. “It was interesting to watch that initially the two female birds fought and bullied each other but, now after some days, they are at rest and happy in their respective nests with the male looking after the young chicks in both.” The expert also noticed that due to fogging and sanitisation activities, small insects which were preferred by the sparrows, have gone scarce and hence the little ones are being fed with chapati particles fetched by the winged parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/lockdown-rejuvenates-lakes-avian-life-in-udaipur-district/articleshow/75586999.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Delhi||Special welfare cell for Delhi govt staff, their families||NEW DELHI: Two hospitals and a testing laboratory will be earmarked to exclusively help and treat government officials and their families if they contract the novel coronavirus infection. With chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealing to people to start preparing “to live with the virus”, chief secretary Vijay Dev has issued an order to set up a separate Covid-19 staff welfare cell. “It has come to notice that some officials have tested positive while performing their duties and there may be possibility of more officials getting infected,” the order stated. This cell, headed by the chief executive officer (CEO) of Delhi Jal Board (DJB), has been tasked with creating the infrastructure, including a 24x7 helpline, to keep the system running. The facilities will be available to the employees of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, corporations and local bodies, and their families. DJB CEO Nikhil Kumar is the state nodal officer to provide all necessary help and proper treatment to everybody. The welfare cell has been set up with nine senior DJB officials and one nominated person from each department. All entitled employees and their families can also access helpline numbers 011-23559204, 011-23541813 and 9650291021. The cell will also arrange for psychological counselling by Institute of Human Behaviour and Applied Sciences and ensure supply of essential goods, services and medicines to all affected families. The government is also trying to work out a process that will help the affected families to communicate among themselves to share their experience of home isolation. A senior DJB official said the two hospitals and the laboratory would be covered by Delhi Government Employees Health Scheme. “Treatment will be offered on cashless basis. The list of these facilities and contact numbers will be circulated soon among all department heads,” he added. The district magistrates, who are heading the anti-Covid-19 drive in each of the 11 districts in the capital, have already been ordered to provide details of the Covid-19-positive employees to the state nodal officer on a daily basis. “A database will be maintained to take further actions,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/special-welfare-cell-for-govt-staff-their-families/articleshow/75587035.cms||Paras Singh
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools hiked fee despite GO: HSPA||Hyderabad: Alleging that several top-notch schools in the city have hiked fee and are collecting more money along with the tuition fee, the Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) on Wednesday filed a complaint with the education department. In a mail sent to the officials of the education department, HSPA said that many schools in the city are violating GO MS 46. “While some schools are flouting the directive by hiking the fee, others are charging a various fee (activity fee, annual fee, food fee, etc.) either by charging the terminology or by dividing the whole fee amount of last academic year into 12 instalments,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president, HSPA. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-hiked-fee-despite-go-hspa/articleshow/75587814.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Educationists make case for Class X promotion on internal marks alone||PANAJI: The announcement of the Class X board exams being pushed further, to May 18, has alarmed the state’s educationists. They are worried about the adverse impact it can have on the psychology of the 15-year-olds waiting to answer the test. Some others pointed to the huge risk factor involved in conducting exams, despite the state being declared a green zone. Two former chairpersons of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education have made a case for only evaluating the students based on internal marks to finally relieve them of their stress. Former state board chairman Jose Remedios Rebello said that uncertainty over the board exam schedule may push poor children out of the mainstream, while others may lose their motivation to excel at the test. “This will create a psychological problem for students. These are young kids and will not know how to handle it. According to me, there is no need for Class X exam in Goa as there are more than sufficient Class XI seats, unlike in other states. Anyway 94% is our pass percentage. Only in the case of admission to polytechnic and similar programmes, an entrance test can be held. If some higher secondary schools want, they too can hold an entrance test for admissions,” Rebello said. The Class X results can be prepared based on internal school evaluations, he said. “Earlier the board had carried out a three-year study, where it was found that some schools were evaluating students in line with the Goa board, while other institutes were simply allotting marks freely,” Rebello said. Rebello said statisticians and technocrats need to be engaged by the state to carry out scaling of schools based on such data and accordingly students can be evaluated based on internal assessment marks. “I really feel sorry for the children. Children of migrant workers are really in a fix,” he said. “You just imagine the climatic conditions in Goa during the probable period of examination. According to me, the board need not conduct the exam at all and the results could be declared on the basis of internal as well as preparatory exam conducted by the school. ,” former chairman of the state board P R Nadkarni said, taking to social media platforms. Both Rebello and Nadkarni said they have already conveyed their suggestions to officials of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Meanwhile, headmaster Vithoba Dessai has written to the chief minister requesting him not to conduct the public exams this year. “Around 20,000 Goan students were to answer the Class X exam. It is irrational to predict how long this lockdown would continue. Meanwhile, young children are under tremendous stress. This state of anxiety, fatigue, parental pressure, and mental turmoil has taken a toll on students mental health,” Dessai said. He said that as the state board is an autonomous body it is fully authorised to take a decision not to hold the public exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/educationists-make-case-for-class-x-promotion-on-internal-marks-alone/articleshow/75587813.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa drops labourers to border, but Karnataka refuses to take many||MARGAO: Confined to government shelter homes for nearly six weeks, a sense of relief was palpable on the faces of the 60-odd people from Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada district who boarded Kadamba buses for their home-bound journey. However, the joy in anticipation of homecoming was short-lived, as many were forced to return for want of identity documents. Most of the labourers who were denied entry by Karnataka were taken to Campal in six buses late on Wednesday evening. There was tension in the air for some time before authorities pacified them. Setting in motion the process of facilitating transportation of migrant labourers to their native places, five Kadamba buses left from Goa, ferrying over 100 natives of Karnataka — 60 from the Navelim shelter home and 48 from Bicholim — up to the Goa border. From the border checkposts, the Karnataka government had made arrangements for further transportation. Left penniless after the lockdown rendered them jobless, these migrant workers had been pining to go home to be with their families during the time of crisis. But there was also uncertainty about the future, as many of them had made Goa their home for several years, to earn their livelihoods. In South Goa, however, only nine people were allowed to travel across the border, as the rest didn’t possess their Aadhaar cards. South Goa collector Ajit Roy said that the Uttar Kannada administration had made Aadhaar Cards mandatory for the people to return to the state. An official source said that the Karnataka government made excellent arrangements to receive its people. “A huge pandal was erected, and all necessary arrangements for food and drinking water had been made. A number of bio-toilets were also set up.” Roy told TOI that the state government arranged to ferry the Uttar Kannada natives following a request to that effect from the Uttar Kannada district administration. Asked if there were any plans to transport others housed in shelter homes in a similar manner, Roy said, “If the accepting state makes any arrangement (of picking them up from the border), we will look into it”. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the state government was waiting for the Union railway ministry’s permission for trains to start running from Goa to transport migrant workers. “Labourers have registered,” he said. “But until the railways ministry gives us permissions for trains to start from here, we cannot finalise anything. The ministry’s decision can come anytime within the next two days.” Sawant said that those who are being sent out from the state are not being tested. “They are dropped off and the bus is washed,” he said. “Those who want to come to Goa from that particular state will be brought by the same bus.” Meanwhile, a large number of migrant labourers on Wednesday gathered at Margao’s municipal garden, where a facility has been set up by the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) to register to travel to their native places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-drops-labourers-to-border-but-ktaka-sends-some-back/articleshow/75587802.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||CBI resumes probe into Yogeesh murder case||Dharwad: The CBI has resumed investigation into the Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case. On Wednesday, its officials summoned Vasudev Naik, who was the ACP of Dharwad city sub-division when the BJP zilla panchayat member was killed. Naik was questioned for several hours. The CBI team reached here Monday and has visited several places since then. Since the FIR by CID and local police had cited dispute over land as reason for the murder, the CBI team on Tuesday summoned former shirastedar (deputy tahsildar) Veeresh Byahatti and real estate businessman Nataraj Mulkigoudar to the Suburban police station and questioned them. The CBI had earlier questioned Fayaz Bastewad, Krishna Ranoji and one of the accused in the case, Sandeep Savadatti. Sources said the CBI will question some prominent political leaders and police officers in connection with the case. The investigation agency had suspended the probe due to the lockdown. Yogeeshgouda was hacked to death at his gym on June 15, 2016. Hubballi-Dharwad police had arrested Basavaraj Mutagi and others in connection with the case. When the CID took over the case, it named the already arrested people as accused. Unsatisfied with the CID probe, Yogeesh’s elder brother Gurunathgouda sought an investigation by the CBI, but the then Congress-JD(S) coalition government did not heed his plea. The investigation was handed over to the CBI when the BJP assumed power. The CBI arrested six people from Bengaluru for allegedly giving the contract to kill Yogeesh. They were produced before a court which remanded them in judicial custody. These people did not figure in the list of accused earlier filed by police or CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-resumes-probe-into-yogeesh-murder-case/articleshow/75578545.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Limited stocks, logistical issues spike meats prices||Panaji: Prices of chicken, mutton and beef have risen sharply in the local market and buyers pockets are feeling the pinch. Vendors meanwhile have blamed the price rise on short supply from neighbouring states due to issues with logistics related to the nationwide lockdown. Escalating the problems for chicken vendors was the outbreak of avian influenza in parts of Karnataka and Kerala, prompting the state government to ban the entry of chickens from both states. “After the bird flu outbreak, poultry owners in parts of Karnataka buried most of their chickens. Now, even if the outbreak is contained, supply cannot be resumed till the government order comes,” a Panaji vendor said. With the ban on chickens from Karnataka and Kerala, vendors in the state had to depend on Maharashtra for supply. They, however, lament that the volume of live chickens arriving from Maharashtra is comparatively far lesser, resulting in shortage. “We no longer get bulk supply of chicken like we used to. The rates therefore have been hiked,” another vendor said. A chicken vendor from Margao said that the price of the local variant of chicken has also shot up. The situation is no better with the supply of mutton and beef either. While the state gets live goats from Karnataka and Maharashtra, fresh beef comes from Karnataka’s slaughter houses. “Owing to lockdown, markets have been sealed due to which the live cattle markets are no longer operating like earlier. Only a limited number of goats are able to arrive in the state now,” a meat vendor in Panaji said. Shabbir Bepari, a beef seller from Margao said that only two trucks carrying fresh beef come these days unlike the nearly six earlier. “We are compelled to manage with just this quantity including distributing it among traders in Vasco, Ponda and other parts of Salcete,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/limited-stocks-logistical-issues-spike-meats-prices/articleshow/75727151.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mangaluru||High bills sparks outrage even as escoms allay fear||Jaideep.Shenoy Mangaluru: The ‘unusually high’ electricity bill issued by the electricity supply companies (Escoms) in the state, particularly Bescom for May, has triggered an outrage. The move by Escoms comes amidst a clear directive from the energy department to the electricity supply companies through a circular dated April 30 that they should issue bill for May based on actual reading of meters of consumers and not on average consumption on the basis of which bill was issued for April. In earlier circulars dated April 3 and April 9, the department had directed Escoms to issue electricity bills to all HT and 40HP and above LT installation as per meter reading and on average basis for other categories of consumers. The department had also directed them to send bills to consumers wherever possible via email, WhatsApp, SMS and also permit online payments. Consumers were also given option to furnish self-reading for their bills. S Sarkar, a Bescom consumer whose average monthly bill ranges between Rs 500-600, paid Rs 581 in March. The bill for April issued to him based on his previous monthly consumption was Rs 548. Incidentally bill for May has shown a near threefold increase at Rs 1,426. Sarkar expressed concern at being billed at a higher slab for power consumed which, he claimed would not have been the case if Bescom had given him a monthly bill. Allaying these fears as unfounded, senior officer in Mescom said while it is true that meter reading will be based on last entry in March and consumption as on day the meter is read in May, the slabs will be adjusted accordingly. For instance, if total consumption for two months is 380 units, bill in May will be for first slab of 60 units (instead of 30 units), next slab of 140 units (instead of 70 units) and remaining 180 units at rates applicable for 100-200 units slab, he said. The fixed charges too will be reflected accordingly in the bill based on the sanctioned load, the officer said. The amount that consumers have paid for April will be adjusted in bill for May and excess or deficit if any will be treated accordingly. Consumers may visit their nearest sub-divisional office to get excess amount charged, if any, rectified or send an email, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/high-bills-sparks-outrage-even-as-escoms-allay-fear/articleshow/75584708.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vehicular movement normal, traffic cops put back on duty||Thiruvananthapuram: With the city police lifting odd/even regulation on private motor vehicles on Wednesday, the 220-strong contingent of traffic cops who were engaged in lockdown enforcement duty for the past 40-odd days have been put on traffic duty again. City police authorities said the department was prepared even before the chief minister announced the lifting of odd/even restrictions during his routine media briefing on Tuesday evening. “The third phase of lockdown commenced on Monday. On the same day, our officers were called back for traffic duty and they reported for duty on Tuesday,” said district police chief (city) IG Balramkumar Upadhyay. Vehicular movement was smooth on all roads and no major accidents were reported anywhere, Upadhyay said. “Since educational institutions, malls and theatres are remaining closed, there was no exponential rise in the number of vehicles on roads and hence our cops were able to handle the traffic smoothly,” he added. He said in a few days, the crime wing of the city police would also become operational, restarting investigations of existing cases. However, all other forces that are assisting the city police on lockdown enforcement such as the armed police battalion and vigilance and anti-corruption bureau officers will continue to assist the city police as there are much preparations involved in enforcing home quarantine of NRKs who would be returning soon. Assistant commissioner (city traffic, south) M K Zulfiquer said the police had switched on traffic signal lights at major junctions on Saturday. By Monday, all traffic lights were turned on. “When the odd/even plan was being enforced, the traffic signal lights were not operational. We were using only blinkers as warning lights,’’ the assistant commissioner said. By the end of the second phase of lockdown, we turned on the signal lights to warn the motorists that things were going back to normal and they need to be careful at junctions, he added. “Though the traffic was minimal during the first two phases of the lockdown, several minor crashes were reported due to reckless driving. We wanted the drivers/riders to fall in line before restrictions were lifted,” Zulfiquer said. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the police opened two more roads for vehicular traffic as entry/exit points of the city. They are at Mankattukadavu under Poojapura police station limit and Vellaikkadavu under Vattiyoorkavu police station limit. Thus, the total number of entry/exit points of the city have become eight. More roads will be opened in the coming days. The road at Pappanamcode will be opened on Thursday. On Friday, the road at East Mukkola under Mannanthala station limits will be opened. Kachani road under Vattiyoorkavu station limits will be opened on Saturday and roads at Chenkottukonam and St Andrews under Kazhakootam station limits will be opened on Monday, the police have decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vehicular-movement-normal-traffic-cops-put-back-on-duty/articleshow/75586176.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Kedar Nath Shukla, Imarti Devi meets MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan amid talks of cabinet expansion||BHOPAL: Amid speculations about expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet and the party and chief minister maintaining stoic silence on the issue, intense lobbying for representation in the cabinet is on. For two days, former MLAs who are supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia met the chief minister and state BJP chief, a Kedar Nath Shukla— BJP MLA from Sidhi in Vindhya region— met him on Wednesday. After meeting the CM, Shukla claimed that he would surely get a berth. During the day, former minister and close confident of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Imarti Devi and minister Govind Singh Rajput also met BJP state president V D Sharma. Three-term MLA from Sidhi, KN Shukla called on chief minister Chouhan at his official residence. Shukla a strong claimant for a cabinet berth had lost out in the past to Rajendra Shukla, considered close to Chouhan. After the meeting, Shukla told TOI, “I met chief minister Chouhan to discuss regional matters amid COVID-19 crisis. There were talks about cabinet expansion on which the party leadership will take a final decision. I am 100% confident of getting a cabinet berth this time." Meanwhile, former minister and close confident of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Imarti Devi also met Chouhan and BJP state chief Sharma. Imarti Devi said that she could not meet Chouhan after the formation of the government and wanted to greet him on his marriage anniversary. "The decision about cabinet expansion lies with the BJP leadership. I have no idea about this. I discussed regional issues and greeted CM on his marriage anniversary. There were no talks about cabinet expansion during the short meeting," Imarti Devi told reporters after the visit. Imarti, who had resigned as MLA from Dabra, also met BJP chief Sharma and discussed issues related to her constituency from where she is hopeful to get the party ticket in the ensuing by-poll. Earlier in the day, minister for food and civil supplies, Govind Singh Rajput also met state party chief Sharma. "There was general discussion about current crisis and works undertaken by the state government," said Rajput. When asked about Scindia he said, "We all want that Scindia ji should become Union minister. But, the BJP central leadership will take a call on the matter. In MP, we are sure to win all 24 seats in the assembly by-polls in state," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shukla-imarti-devi-meets-cm-amid-talks-of-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/75587062.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Ask ASI to finish basilica restoration before rains’||PANAJI: Goa governor Satya Pal Malik has sought the Union culture minister’s intervention in the matter of the negligence of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in preservation, conservation and restoration of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa. Malik, in a telephonic conversation with minister of culture Prahlad Singh Patel, under whom the ASI functions, requested him to direct ASI authorities to complete all restoration works in a time bound manner, and if possible, before the monsoon arrives in Goa. Patel assured Malik that he would send senior ASI authorities to visit the Basilica. Malik also addressed a letter to Patel, in which he stated that “the entire attitude of the ASI in preserving, conserving and restoring the basilica seems to be casual and lackadaisical. The report of the ASI reflects uncoordinated action and non-committal attitude of the different branches of ASI in dealing with preservation and restoration of the architectural marvel”. He further said that ASI cited various constraints for the slow pace of the repair work, including non-availability of sand, disturbance during feast time and unresponsive behaviour of the contractors. The governor also reiterated issues raised by rector Fr Patricio Fernandes over ASI’s negligence in repairs of side roof, false ceiling, toilets left unrepaired for three years, no safety measures despite threat to security, no proper landscaping for pavement, wooden altars in danger of crumbling due to termites, lack of restoration of paintings in Basilica, neglect of mausoleum and mastrillian casket, neglect of interior repair works among others. Malik further stated that the basilicais one of the best examples of Baroque architecture and holds special importance not only for Goans but for the entire Catholic community of the world as it holds the mortal remains of St Francis Xavier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ask-asi-to-finish-basilica-restoration-before-rains/articleshow/75587811.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Kozhikode||1st flight from Dubai with 189 expats arrives today||Malappuram: The first flight from Dubai, ferrying stranded expatriates, will arrive at Karipur airport with 189 passengers at 10.30pm on Thursday. District administration said the passengers on Air India Express (AIE) flight are residents of Malappuram (82), Kozhikode (70), Wayanad (15), Palakkad (8), Kannur (6), Kasaragod (4), Alappuzha (2), Kottayam (1) and Thiruvananthapuram (1). Earlier authorities were expecting two flights, with the other one scheduled to arrive from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. Later the service of that flight was rescheduled. Malappuram collector Jafar Malik convened a meeting of all department officials at Karipur airport on Wednesday evening to review the preparations to receive the first batch of passengers. Administration officials also held discussion with airport director K Sreenivasa Rao. Malik said elaborate arrangements were made at the airport to ensure the safety of passengers. All passengers will be screened and those with symptoms of the disease will be shifted to the isolation wards in government medical colleges at Manjeri or Kozhikode. The rest will be shifted to Covid Care Centres arranged across the district in KSRTC buses. Asymptomatic pregnant women, children (aged below 10), those with various age-related illness, the disabled would be allowed for home quarantine, said sources. District police chief U Abdul Kareem and airport officials, officials of CISF, customs, revenue departments, MVD attended the review meeting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/1st-flight-from-dubai-with-189-expats-arrives-today/articleshow/75584746.cms||T P Nijeesh
May 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: 5 doctors shifted to Ahmedabad Covid hospital resign||RAJKOT: Five junior resident doctors of Junagadh Civil Hospital resigned on Tuesday evening after they were transferred to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital’s Covid-19 ward. However, their resignations are yet to be accepted by authorities at the Junagadh Medical College. The doctors who resigned include Dr Gautam Vekaria, Dr Hetal Karamta, Dr Prem Gangdev, Dr Sandip Vala and Dr Himanshu Ramchandani. They are all MBBS and expressed their reservations to join duty at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital.Dean of Junagadh Medical Collge S P Rathod told TOI, “I have sought guidance of health ministry on their resignations. Because if we accept the resignation they are required to serve only seven-day notice period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-docs-shifted-to-abad-covid-hospital-resign/articleshow/75587093.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||60% of Goans abroad who registered with NRI panel are in Gulf||Panaji: The state government said on Wednesday that over 3,100 Goans from over 60 countries have registered with the NRI commission to facilitate their return. More than half of these — around 1,800 — are from Gulf countries, with a majority in the UAE. Around 400 Indian nationals from Goa are also stranded in the UK, and over 300 in the US. Several Goans currently in countries hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic also wish to return to Goa. This includes 70 in Italy and 15 from France. State NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar said that most of those who registered are students pursuing courses in various countries and their parents who had travelled abroad before the lockdown and got stranded there. The 3,100 who registered with the commission are among the 8,000-odd that the Union ministry of external affairs informed the Goa government would want to return to the state. The rest, Sawaikar said, have registered with Indian missions abroad. Sawaikar also said that the information obtained by the commission has been shared with the Union ministry of external affairs, with a request to expedite their repatriation. However, the Goa government is yet to be informed about the number of Goans, if any, who will return on the evacuation flights. “The government of India has assured the state government that Goa International Airport, Dabolim, will feature in the next phase (of evacuations) as a destination,” said director of NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza. “They have also stated that they will send passengers by ship to Goa.” Meanwhile, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that none of the 64 evacuation flights being operated by the government of India will land in Goa in the first phase of evacuation. He, however, added that the Union home ministry’s decision to allow Indians abroad to return means Goans can fly to Mumbai or Kochi and then travel by road to Goa. “They can travel by road,” Sawant said. “They can contact the Indian mission in the country they are living in, and they will arrange for their return. If they are quarantined at the place they land in and are tested there, they will not be tested (again) here. But if they come here directly by road, the government is prepared to test and quarantine them.” Elaborating on who are likely to be on those 64 flights, D’Souza said, “MHA guidelines state that Indian missions abroad will decide who will board these flights, and priority will be given to those in distress, including workers who have been laid off, those who went on short-term visas facing expiry of visa, those with medical emergencies, pregnant women, elderly, students and those who want to return due to a death in the family in India. Others are not likely to be considered.” According to the guidelines, passengers, before boarding flights, will have to sign an undertaking agreeing to undergo 14 days institutional quarantine at their own cost on arrival in India. Once they land in India, they are also expected to bear the cost of travel by road from Delhi, Mumbai and other states to Goa. The MEA is only considering Indian nationals as of now. The state government has also shared data of an additional 1,000 persons who are OCI card holders, 90% of whom are located in the UK. “We have shared the data with the MEA, but the ministry is not seeking it right now,” D’Souza said. They are only considering Indian passport holders.” Sawant said that the government is awaiting clarity. “MHA guidelines on OCI card-holders are not clear,” he said. “Once they become clear, we can think about it,” he said. Regarding Goan crew on vessels like Karnika, he said that it is up to the owners of the vessels to take the call. “The ship owners have not yet taken the decision. How can we decide for them?” Seafarers at ports unlikely to be in first evacuation list: Govt Panaji: Director of NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza said on Wednesday that seafarers who are on vessels at ports (and not on land) are unlikely to feature in the first phase of evacuation. He said that those who are already signed off and are on land could be considered, depending on their circumstances. “The seafarer issue has its own complexities,” he said. “Companies are not looking at signing off half or just a few of the Indian crew, to catch a flight. They prefer to sign off the entire Indian crew at once, and close the chapter. Until charter flights resume, they may keep them on board or send them home by ship. And till charters are permitted, the only route for them is the sea route.” The Goan Seamen’s Association of India on Tuesday wrote to PM Narendra Modi appealing for seafarers to be brought back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/60-of-goans-abroad-who-registered-with-nri-panel-are-in-gulf/articleshow/75587810.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrants have tough time getting medical fitness certificates||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: Sanappa Padda, along with his family of four, spent a significant part of Wednesday waiting outside a clinic in Kolhapur’s Kasba Bawda area to get health check-ups done. Without mandatory health certificates, the family will not be able to travel to Yadgir, their native place in Karnataka. Since the Union home ministry made an announcement, giving clearance to the states to send back the migrant workers, hundreds of workers like Padda have been queuing up outside clinics to get the fitness documents that certify that they do not have Covid-19 symptoms and are fit to travel. In Kasba Bawda alone, there are more than 200 such stranded people. Sandip Nejdar, a doctor by profession and also a local corporator, said many of those seeking the permission are illiterate. “After coming to know about such a large number of migrants stranded in our area, I spoke to civic officials and sought permission to do the health check-ups,” he said. Padda said he earns Rs 500 per day when there is work. However, now, his family has run out of money. “The doctor has made some arrangements for food. We want to go home. The administration said that we would have to pay Rs 1,300 per head for tickets to travel by state transport bus. We do not want to go by train as it passes through Gulbarga, where the coronavirus cases have been reported,” he said. Nejdar said he has requested to the district authorities to reduce the ticket fares by at least 50%. “People like us are ready to pay for the ticket fares. The workers said they will pay us back after reaching their hometowns. However, the charges for state transport buses are not affordable,” said Nejdar. The district administration has initiated the task for sorting the applications made for travel passes. Kolhapur collector Daulat Desai said, “We are writing to the district administrations to get their consent to send the stranded migrants, workers and travellers back to their hometowns. Only after the consent is granted, we will start issuing the travel passes.” The city administration has set up 27 centres to provide health check-ups to the stranded migrants and travellers free of cost. Medicos charging Rs200-400 for certificates Stranded workers in Aurangabad city too are struggling to get the mandatory medical fitness certificates. Many medicos here have been found charging between Rs 200 to Rs 400 to issue the certificates. Several medical practitioners running clinics refused to come on record about the fees being charged by them to screen people and issue medical certificates. They said there are no guidelines to fix the fees to be charged by the doctors. The Aurangabad city police commissionerate has deployed a couple of doctors at its office for free check-ups and issuance of certificates. Police commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI: “This is the time to empathise with migrant workers and those who have been stranded and left without any work for the past 40 days. We are doing all that is possible and expect the same from different sections of the society, including medicos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-have-tough-time-getting-medical-fitness-certificates/articleshow/75584705.cms||Abhijeet Patil
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Fear grips North Karnataka as relaxation of norms triggers anxiety||Hubballi: There is a palpable fear among the residents of North Karnataka, with erstwhile ‘Green Zone’ districts now being recategorised following the reporting of Covid-19 cases in the past week. Worse still, the relaxation of the norms of the lockdown has resulted in several market places being crowded, people are anxious of the number of cases surging. The lack of regard for social distancing norms in orange and green districts is being blamed for the sudden rise in the Covid-19 cases in these places. During the lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases across North Karnataka witnessed a steady surge. As on April 1, the total number of cases across the region stood at 11. However, the number of patients confirmed with the deadly infection rose by nearly 300% between April 14 and May 6. As on May 6, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 693, of which 329 are in North Karnataka, and 16 have succumbed to the disease in the region, while 128 have affected a recovery and been discharged. In the past week, Davanagere district, which was a ‘Green Zone’ district at the beginning of the last week of April, has reported more than 40 cases, while Bagalkot has also registered a disturbing spike in the number of people who have been confirmed with the infection. Even Haveri district, where not a single case had been registered for two months, now has two active cases. Activist and volunteer with Civil Defence Unit in Dharwad Kiran Hiremath feared that the relaxation of the lockdown is likely to trigger a spike in the number of cases in the district. “This will aggravate the situation in districts that are witnessing a spurt in the cases. In markets, we have seen that there is a massive crowd after the lockdown was relaxed,” said Hiremath, who along with other volunteers has been trying to raise awareness among people on the need to practice social distancing. He pointed to the distressing possibility of districts currently in the orange zone rising to ‘Red’ if the number of Covid-19 cases continued its upward spiral. Bagalkot deputy commissioner KC Rajendra told TOI that most wards in Badami and Jamkhandi had been sealed. “We have not eased the lockdown to a great extent in the district. All stores barring groceries and those plying essential commodities are not allowed to fucntion here,” he said. In Davanagere, the relaxation is between 7am and 1pm, with all 44 wards in the district headquarters being sealed for the past three days. Belagavi tops N K’taka list *Belagavi: 71 cases *Kalaburagi: 64 cases *Vijayapura: 48 Cases *Davanagere: 44 Cases *Bagalkot: 48 Cases *Bidar: 22 Cases *Ballari: 14 Cases *Dharwad: 11 Cases *Gadag: Five cases *Haveri: Two cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fear-grips-north-karnataka-as-relaxation-of-norms-triggers-anxiety/articleshow/75583108.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Beaten by cops, threatened with eviction, migrants’ woes amplify||Bengaluru: Hundreds of migrant workers battling uncertainties across Bengaluru were left high and dry as news of the government cancelling trains arranged for them to return home trickled in on Wednesday. Over 200 workers — from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh — stranded in Varthur faced police intervention as they looked for ways to return to their home states, while another group of migrants told TOI that many of them were beaten by cops in Mahadevapura, which the jurisdictional inspector denied. “Some migrants had come near our station, but there was no lathicharge. We did not use any force,” the inspector said. One labourer from a camp of more than 800-1,000 workers, however, said: “In the morning, some policemen came to our colony and asked us to go to the station. When we went there, we were caned and two of our workers were badly hurt, with one sustaining head injuries.” “Please don’t tell police I spoke with you,” the labourer requested.  Another worker said no government representative had any discussion with them before deciding to cancel trains. “Some people from UP and Odisha left from our camp, but now we are being denied a chance to go home,” the labourer said. In another case, about 800 workers housed in a colony near CV Raman Nagar were threatened with eviction, if they didn’t start working. “Early this morning, some engineers and managers from the project we work for came and said we must get to work. When we told them that we want to return home and are waiting to be sent back, they said, in that case, we will be thrown out of our colony.” Lawyer Clifton Rozario, who has been fighting for migrants’ rights, termed it forced labour. “Compelling workers to stay back and work is forced labour, which is prohibited under Article 23 of the Constitution. Governments have been apathetic right from the beginning. They began thinking of rations and basic needs only after immense pressure was mounted on them. And even now, they are taking decisions without speaking to the workers,” he said. An open letter to the state government, written by around 500 individuals and organisations, pointed out that since March 24, most of the builders and contractors completely abandoned the workers, leaving them to scrounge for food and money in violation of government orders. “This decision has been taken solely to appease the lobby of builders and contractors, who claim the return of workers to their home states will adversely impact the construction sector. Neither migrant workers nor trade unions representing them were consulted,” the letter reads. Quoting survey reports, activists said 64% of migrant workers are left with less than Rs 100, only 6% of them received full wages during the lockdown and only one in five received rations. “The central and state governments have failed to ensure payment of wages, food, financial and tenure security during lockdown, thereby stripping the workers of their right to dignity and food,” SS Rajani, an independent activist said. “We’ve not been paid and many of us are starving. We don’t understand why we cannot be allowed to go home. And if the government has cancelled trains, why were police making us fill up forms and collecting money even for that,” asked another labourer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/beaten-by-cops-threatened-with-eviction-migrants-woes-amplify/articleshow/75586169.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM should intervene right now, says P K Laheri||Gandhinagar: P K Laheri, former chief secretary, government of Gujarat, and one of the key trustees of Somnath temple, has openly expressed concern over the worsening situation in Ahmedabad and state due to the Covid-19 outbreak. In a social media post, Laheri said, “Gujarat, especially Ahmedabad, is a matter of great concern. The situation, instead of improving, is deteriorating day by day. Coordination among public, NGOs, AMC (Both wings elected as well as officials) and the state government is the need of the hour. Sorry to say, but something is clearly missing. The CM should intervene immediately.” Laheri had made this comment three days ago. On Tuesday, chief minister Vijay Rupani handed over the charge of overseeing the fight against the pandemic to IAS officer Rajiv Gupta and former city municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. When contacted, Laheri said, “I decided to comment publicly as a citizen of Ahmedabad and as a former chief secretary. I felt that if the government would not take strict measures now, things would worsen further.’’ Laheri lives in Jodhpur area which has also registered several Covid-19 positive cases. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aliquam ut elit non purus cursus eleifend at ut nunc. Proin lacinia convallis molestie. Proin venenatis ut orci semper eleifend. Sed sit amet purus augue. Proin sit amet odio vitae eros ornare auctor at et ante. Fusce ullamcorper a lorem id posuere. Nullam sagittis commodo ipsum eget cursus. Praesent feugiat tempus enim, commodo ultrices ligula viverra vitae. Nam gravida dignissim placerat. Vestibulum congue nunc non orci ultricies, eget faucibus ex congue. Etiam blandit, magna eu rhoncus hendrerit, justo dolor porta tellus, a consectetur turpis tortor quis turpis. Cras hendrerit tempus ullamcorper. Nulla. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aliquam ut elit non purus cursus eleifend at ut nunc. Proin lacinia convallis molestie. Proin venenatis ut orci semper eleifend. Sed sit amet purus augue. Proin sit amet odio vitae eros ornare auctor at et ante. Fusce ullamcorper a lorem id posuere. Nullam sagittis commodo ipsum eget cursus. Praesent feugiat tempus enim, commodo ultrices ligula viverra vitae. Nam gravida dignissim placerat. Vestibulum congue nunc non orci ultricies, eget faucibus ex congue. Etiam blandit, magna eu rhoncus hendrerit, justo dolor porta tellus, a consectetur turpis tortor quis turpis. Cras hendrerit tempus ullamcorper. Nulla. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aliquam ut elit non purus cursus eleifend at ut nunc. Proin lacinia convallis molestie. Proin venenatis ut orci semper eleifend. Sed sit amet purus augue. Proin sit amet odio vitae eros ornare auctor at et ante. Fusce ullamcorper a lorem id posuere. Nullam sagittis commodo ipsum eget cursus. Praesent feugiat tempus e||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-should-intervene-right-now-says-laheri/articleshow/75587092.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Chennai||Laid-off Indian workers wait to return home||CHENNAI: On Tuesday last, a few hundred Indian workers scrounged for food on the streets of Jleeb Al Shuwaikh, a town in Farwaniya governorate in Kuwait, jostling for space on pavements, in roadside sheds and atop terraces of buildings. The Indian Embassy, located 15km away on Gulf Street in Al Daiya, is yet to respond to their pleas for shelter. They are among the 24,500 residence violators in the country, waiting to return home. In open parks in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, Indians and citizens of other countries, are seeking refuge as they have been laid off and have no money to pay rent for their lodgings. As the external affairs ministry and state-run organisations assigned to take care of the welfare of emigrants responded to SOS calls of Indian workers across the globe to bring them back home, experts are busy computing the Covid-19 backlash on the country’s economy. For states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu, whose workers constitute a huge chunk of the Indian expats, the economic implications are far- reaching and disturbing. "India has close to 10 million people in the Gulf countries. At least 20% will want to return, churning the economy here," said professor S Irudaya Rajan of the Centre for Development Studies (CDS), Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. A substantial number of people from Tamil Nadu and Kerala constitute the overseas Indian population that’s driving the economy of the Gulf countries. But the return exodus spells trouble for India and the state economies. "There will be a 23% reduction (to $64 billion) in remittances in the coming days," admitted Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, referring to a World Bank forecast of India’s post Covid-19 pandemic fallout of the global recession. This is a substantial drop compared to the growth of 5.5% and receipts of $83 billion in 2019. "Half a million people will want to come back and we will have to encounter this," said the minister. For Tamil Nadu, as for many other states, it is a double whammy, said Bernard D’Sami, a senior fellow at the Loyola Institute of Social Science Training and Research (LISSTAR), Chennai. "The reverse migration within the country is an added burden. Industries will suffer. Added to this, the return of the emigrants from the Gulf could see a sharp rise in unemployment. While at least three lakh Keralites overseas are expected to head back home, close to two lakh will return to Tamil Nadu, said Irudaya Rajan. But, Kerala’s Department of Non Resident Keralites Affairs (Norka) appears to be prepared for the wave of returnees, said D’Sami. Norka has rolled out several programmes, including offering advisories on good investments and a good interest rate for foreign remittances. Tamil Nadu is has just begun collating the number of blue collar workers from the state abroad. In many countries, the queues to fly back home have become longer and the wait endless. "Why is India dragging its feet about flying back people," asked a volunteer working with Valley of Love, based in Dubai. "Lakhs of Indians have lost their jobs and are homeless. The Indian government is insisting on workers paying flight tickets when embassies can dip into the Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF)," he said. Embassy officials in Kuwait too have been getting restless with no clear instruction on evacuation plans. "It will be chaos for a while when the emigrants fly back home. As unemployment peaks, day-to-day living will be a challenge for those who return," said Irudaya Rajan. They will eat into their savings and borrow heavily. But, it’s not all gloomy. "The setback is only temporary. We can expect a higher growth rate by 2021-22," said Muraleedharan, optimistic of a quick recovery and people returning to jobs abroad. "We expect a turnaround within a year," said Rajan, who has studied several Kerala crises, including the Gulf War and the Global Recession of 2008. "Countries will open up again. Some restrictions will be there. But, the migrants will win," said Irudaya Rajan. Meanwhile, in Jleeb Al Shuwaikh in Kuwait, P Anbazhagan is desperate for a shelter. "When I eat food distributed by NGOs, I swallow dust too," said the worker from Perambalur district in Tamil Nadu. The construction company in Kuwait sacked him two months ago. Now, the fear is from the Covid infection. "We want to reach home safe," he said in a video chat, showing the plight of a group of Indians huddled together in a street corner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/laid-off-indian-workers-wait-to-return-home/articleshow/75587076.cms||Jaya Menon
May 7, 2020||Kolkata||For the first time, more than 100 infected in a day across West Bengal||KOLKATA: Bengal on Wednesday crossed the 100-mark for Covid-19 cases on a single day for the first time, registering a 8.3% rise, the highest so far. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said 112 fresh Covid cases had been reported over the past 24 hours, Tuesday recording 85 cases. “Anyone would appreciate the high population density of Kolkata that has been a concern at the international level. We have been able to live up to the reputation and expectation that one has of us,” Bandyopadhyay said. With more samples being tested over the past few days, the number of positive cases in Bengal has been on the rise— 61 on Monday, 85 on Tuesday and 112 on Wednesday, underlining the fact that the virus has been showing no sign of let-up. Most of the cases were detected in Kolkata and surroundings. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has come down a little from seven on Tuesday to four on Wednesday, though the state still has a high mortality rate. So far, the Bengal death toll is 72, with the state home secretary, for the first time, announcing that the figure was apart from the 72 deaths recorded due to comorbidities. Bandyopadhyay said, “I don’t want to get into this nuanced academic debate over the reasons of the deaths. We have said what we had to say. I would leave this issue behind and focus on more important things, like providing food to people and helping in the seamless return of students, migrant workers, pilgrims and patients stranded in other states.” The state has been boosting the testing infrastructure, pushing up examinations. “Bengal has 15 functional labs, 10 government-run and five private. Another 10 government labs, including at NRS and Bankura Sammilani Medical College, and two private labs have applied for approval from ICMR. We will soon have 27 labs to test samples,” Bandyopadhyay said. “On Wednesday, 2,570 swab sample tests were carried out, when the per-day number stood at 250 a month ago.” The home secretary added so far, 30,141 tests had been performed. The government is conducting pool tests to trace contacts. “Asha workers have conducted a two-month survey among 6 crore households to spot people with fever and cough,” he said. Bandyopadhyay pointed out ICMR guidelines stated individuals could not go for tests on his own. “ It has to be prescribed by a registered medical practitioner, government or private hospital,” he said, reassuring people the state had 8,000-odd beds in 67 Covid hospitals, with 860 ICU beds and 271 ventilators for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-the-first-time-more-than-100-infected-in-a-day-across-bengal/articleshow/75587100.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Relief for Goans staying along river banks as HTL modified||PANAJI: In a major relief to Goans living along river banks and estuaries, the environment ministry has amended the coastal regulation zone notification 2011 to demarcate the high tide line (HTL) along bunds in khazan lands, leaving out mangroves, for the coastal zone management plan (CZMP). The new notification will benefit many dwellings in the no development zone (NDZ) as it would be reduced, taking these houses out of its ambit, a senior government officer said. The Centre’s move comes after the state government made a representation to the environment ministry after a public outcry when the draft CZMP was put in public domain in July 2019. A number of village panchayats and municipalities had earlier demanded that the HTL be demarcated along bunds and not around mangroves.  They had even submitted their respective CZMPs to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). TOI was the first to report that the National Coastal Zone Management Authority (NCZMA) had accepted the state government’s request to demarcate the HTL along bunds and not around mangroves in khazan lands. The notification also said that the eco sensitive low-lying areas, which are influenced by tidal action known as khazan lands, shall be mapped. “Provided that in case there exists a bund or a sluice gate constructed in the past, prior to the date of notification issued on February 19, 1991, the HTL shall be restricted up to the line along the bund or the sluice gate and in such a case, area under mangroves arising due to saline water ingress beyond the bund or sluice gate shall be classified as CRZ-IA, irrespective of the extent of the area beyond the bund or sluice gate,” the notification said. “Such areas under mangroves shall be protected and shall not be diverted for any developmental activities,” the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/relief-for-goans-staying-along-river-banks-as-htl-modified/articleshow/75587812.cms||Murari Shetye
May 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A bride-to-be rides home on a scooter, spares quarantine for kin||Kaliyikkavila: If not for Covid-19, she would have been busy planning promo for wedding or a pre-wedding shoot, but Anuja, a final year PG medical student was patiently waiting with a token at the screening camp at the border check-post at Inchivila on Wednesday. Her wedding is on May 24 and the student of the Salem Medical College is on her way to her home at Parassala to ensure that she completes her mandatory quarantine period on time. Her family helped her with all the plans. While she reached the checkpost, her uncle was waiting for her with a scooter. Soon after her clearance at the checkpost she can ride home on the scooter and quarantine herself at home. Nobody else from her family will have to be quarantined as they had made arrangements for her to ride home on her own. The family has booked a hall for the wedding and hopes that lockdown will be lifted after May 17. “If that doesn’t happen, we will conduct the ceremony at home in a simple manner. The groom’s family is in Palakkad,” said Suresh, her uncle. Anuja, who tested negative at Salem for Covid 19, said she was prepared to comply with the protocols. “I never thought I would have had to come home for wedding this way. But it is okay, at least I will reach home soon,” she said. Inside the waiting room, Juan munched on snacks along with her sister Jewel. They have been separated from their parents since March. They had gone to Marthandam to a relative’s house with their grandparents and have been stuck for the past three months. “They missed their mother. There were no more games and fun. We had gone to Marthandam for vacation but the kids have been distraught,” said Rose Mary, the grandmother. Satheesh, the kids’ father, drove from Pathanamthitta to pick the family from Inchivila. Things went smoothly on Wednesday at Inchivila with authorities having to deal with lesser inflow compared to other entry points. The number of counters were also increased on Wednesday to ensure minimal crowding and faster clearance. As many as 80 persons who came from red zones in Tamil Nadu had to be taken for quarantine at the Covid care home at Nalanchira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-bride-to-be-rides-home-on-a-scooter-spares-quarantine-for-kin/articleshow/75586189.cms||Aswin J Kumar
May 7, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Beware of ‘false dawn’ in recovery of patients’||AURANGABAD: The Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania ( CMAAO) — the first health association to raise an alarm against Covid-19 in January itself — has cautioned against the “false dawn” in recovery cases of coronavirus. The false-dawn phenomenon refers to cured Covid-19 patients appearing to have a reactivation of symptoms, testing positive again, or even potentially being re-infected. "Once the RT PCR (swab test) is negative, it does not mean that the virus has gone as the throat swabs can have 33% false negative in the first sample and 15% to 20 % false negative with the second sample. Also, if the second sample is not a lower respiratory tract sample, the false negative rates are higher," CMAAO president K K Aggarwal said on Wednesday. Cautioning health professionals against such false-dawn in the recovery of Covid 19 patients, CMAAO has recommended further 14 days isolation for patients who get cured of this viral disease followed by 14 days of quarantine and another 14 days of monitoring. Aurangabad has also witnessed a case of false recovery with a 79-year-old male patient getting readmitted to a hospital after he was declared cured and negative of Covid-19. M K Rathod, civil surgeon for Jalna district, said patients with comorbidity are found to be more vulnerable for false recovery. "There is a need for more health monitoring of such patients even after getting cured of Covid 19. The elderly infected population needs separate line of treatment considering the possibility of false recovery," he said. Referring to incidents of sudden deaths of Covid-19 patients after cure, CMAAO said that the autopsy of such deceased revealed the presence of an active virus in their body. "Around 10% of the Covid-19 cases develop heart involvement and these are the cases which can have sudden death even after discharge. Such incidents don’t align with the generally accepted understanding of how virus infections work and spread," Aggarwal said, referring to the example of Italian doctor who died after discharge because of a heart attack in Jaipur. On sudden rise of Covid 19 cases, CMAAO has said that it is a matter of concern. "On an average it takes 5.2 days for symptoms to develop. This would mean these cases have acquired the infection at least five days before the lockdown was eased out. The actual rise, if any, because of the lock down release will be evident only after another five to seven days," the health association has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beware-of-false-dawn-in-recovery-of-patients/articleshow/75584770.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 7, 2020||Hubballi||Circular asking teachers to attend colleges draws flak||Dharwad: A circular issued by the department of collegiate education on May 3 directing teachers and non-teaching staff of government and private aided degree colleges to attend their respective institutions from May 4 has drawn flak from various quarters. The circular was issued despite the state government and the respective district administrations, besides the universities, already issuing directives that all the educational institutions shall remain closed till May 17 as the lockdown has been extended till that date. Hence the circular of the collegiate education department, which reached the teachers and non-teaching staff on the night of May 3, evoked sharp response from teachers’ associations and legislators. The circular said the colleges in red zone shall have all the employees of group A and B and 33% of group C and D present in the college from May 4. It said the college authorities will decide who among the group C and D employees will have to come. For colleges in yellow, orange and green zones, the department mandated that all the teaching and non-teaching employees shall attend the college from May 4. Terming the circular as ridiculous, MLA and former minister for primary and secondary education Basavaraj Horatti said the director had sent the circular without examining the prevailing situation and the consequences. “Due to lockdown, many teachers are stuck in towns and cities away from their working place. Universities and the district administrations have ordered total closure of all educational institutions. There is no public transport operating in the state,” he said. He has also written a letter to the director of collegiate education to withdraw the circular.  The principal of a private aided college said the university and the district administration have ordered closure of the colleges till May 17 and he will abide by these orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/circular-asking-teachers-to-attend-colleges-draws-flak/articleshow/75584743.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 7, 2020||Goa||Now, call to book your Goa Medical College appointment||PANAJI: The massive surge of patients witnessed on any given day at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital could be a thing of the past after the Covid-19 pandemic has compelled the administration to opt for appointment-based consultations. The move is expected to reduce serpentine queues as consultations for all outpatient departments (OPDs) will be by prior appointment only. On Wednesday, the state-run hospital introduced telephone numbers — 0832-2495331/2495301 - for booking appointments. The GMC administration has declared that this facility will be operational round the clock. Patients will be required to collect their respective tokens from the OPD counter on the day of their appointment itself. Those suffering from flu-like symptoms should visit the dedicated OPD number 30. Patients have been directed to wear face masks and strictly follow social distancing norms while in the hospital premises, read the statement by the hospital administration. An official said the proposal to introduce a token system was discussed more than a year ago, but it was not implemented owing to other important tasks. “This system will remain in force for a long time. It is the need of the hour,” he said. “At times, it becomes difficult to manage the surge of patients as some OPDs cater to more than 200 to 300 patients at any given day,” he said. GMC also caters to people from the neighbouring districts of Karnataka and Maharashtra, comprising about 25-30 % of the total patients. The tertiary hospital on an average witnesses around 1,500 to 2,000 patients and conducts over 100 major and minor surgeries everyday. Since Goa has been classified as a green zone, it has been considered safe to restart regular hospital activities. Goa had seven Covid-19 cases, with all patients treated successfully, and no fresh cases have been detected for over a month. The OPDs at GMC as well at other district hospitals started from Tuesday after a gap of more than a month due to the coronavirus outbreak. OPDs and regular activities such as elective surgeries in all hospitals were closed. However, OPDs will function at 50% patient load to facilitate social distancing norms. Adequate security arrangements have been made in GMC to avoid crowding, a GMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-call-to-book-your-gmc-appointment/articleshow/75587816.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 7, 2020||Dehradun||MHA eases visa norms, many stranded foreigners relieved||Dehradun: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has eased visa norms thereby allowing foreigners whose visa had expired, to continue staying in the country till one month after international air travel restrictions are lifted. An office memorandum to this effect was issued by the ministry on Tuesday. This has brought relief to many foreigners stuck in India especially those who were in religious destinations like Vrindavan and Rishikesh, who were keen on staying on in India and not travel back to their countries, some of which like USA, Germany and UK are currently reeling under the impact of Covid-19. TOI had earlier reported that there are around 1700 foreigners stuck in Vrindavan and Rishikesh, many of whom had been denied visa extension and instead issued exit permits for leaving the country. This had come as a blow, especially for the elderly among them. One such foreign national, an 80-year-old woman member of the ISKCON spiritual group in Vrindavan, had told TOI that “if forced to leave India and go back to the US, it will be a death sentence for me as the pandemic is much worse there especially for senior citizens like us.” On Wednesday, after the MHA order, she said that “this has come as a big respite and a relief for hundreds of people like me.” Similar sentiments were expressed by others. “We now have ample time to decide when we want to travel back. If air travel restrictions are lifted on May 17, the last day of the ongoing lockdown, we still have time till June 17 to arrange our travel plans. By then, hopefully, conditions would become better,” said GC Novotny, a stranded foreign national.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mha-eases-visa-norms-many-stranded-foreigners-relieved/articleshow/75584763.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 7, 2020||Bhopal||Recovery count in Madhya Pradesh again outnumbers positive cases||BHOPAL: For the second consecutive day and fourth time since April 16 — when record 391 cases were reported in a day — number of patients recovering outnumbered the patients who tested positive in the state. As per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services on Wednesday, 89 new patients tested positive for Covid-19. The statewide tally now stands at 3138. A total of 99 patients recovered from the deadly disease all over the state on Wednesday, taking the recovery count to 1099. This is more than 30% of the total patients tested positive so far in the state. On the other hand, 9 deaths due to the contagion were also reported in Madhya Pradesh: Indore (2), Bhopal (4), and one each from Khandwa, Mandsaur and Burhanpur districts. The death toll has now climbed to 185 in the state. As per the state health bulletin, 239 positive patients, who are admitted at different hospitals across the state, are critical. On the other hand, 1,615 are stable. So far, 54595 reports of the samples taken from suspected patients have been received in Madhya Pradesh. Of those samples, 3,138 have tested positive. Across 35 districts, 805 localities have been declared as containment zones. Strict lockdown is being maintained in containment zones and movement is being closely monitored. Health teams are scanning every person and samples of all the high risk patients in these containment zones are being sent to laboratories for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recovery-count-in-mp-again-outnumbers-positive-cases/articleshow/75587096.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mysuru||Drinks’ consumption doubles in Mysuru||MYSURU: As the Karnataka government allowed liquor vends to reopen during the third phase of nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, Mysuru registered sale of liquor of over Rs 10 crore as tipplers queued up at liquor stores on day one. The spike in prices or the scorching sun did not deter the people from waiting for the spirit of their choice. Despite 6% hike in duty, consumers bought liquor and beer in large quantity during first two days, said a vendor. Speaking to TOI, an excise official said, “It has come to our notice that several people are buying liquor in larger quantities than permitted fearing a shortage of supply in future.” Excise deputy commissioner KS Murali admitted that the supply of Indian Made Liquor (IML) and beer to retail merchants were beyond the daily average. Nearly Rs 9.69 crore worth liquor including beer was supplied to retail licensees in Mysuru, he said. Government has allowed sale of liquor from May 4, nearly six weeks after lockdown. After day-one saw heavy rush and demand for liquor, supply was increased to licensee. Though there was no issue of shortage of liquor but the daily supply went beyond normal limit. The deputy commissioner of excise said average daily supply was just over Rs 4 crore worth liquor and beer supply but on May 5, the figure doubled. Karnataka Federation of Wine Merchants Association president S Guruswamy said that supply to wine shops have increased due to closure of bars and restaurants. Since liquor wasn’t available for a long period and the spike in sales may due to people storing them up for the coming weeks. “Liquor was being sold with 6% duty since May 4 but government has increased additional 11% tax, it means it would be 17 %. The new price would come into effect from May 8,” he added. Liquor is being supplied only in takeaway points including MSIL units as directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drinks-consumption-doubles-in-mysuru/articleshow/75583143.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Clarity on upcoming academic calendar likely this week||Kolhapur: Stakeholders associated with the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK), who are awaiting clarity on the upcoming academic calendar for semester and entrance examinations across Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur districts, are likely to get an update soon. SUK vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde, who is also one of the members of the state government-appointed panel to submit a report on the academic calendar and examinations, told TOI that they are working tirelessly on the report that is likely to be submitted within next two days. “Considering the varied situation across the state, it will be very difficult to form a uniform academic calendar for all state universities, even though we are trying to make it more consolidated,” he said. According to Shinde, once the report is submitted to the state government, the next decision on its overall recommendation implementations will be directed by the Higher and Technology education department of the state government. He said that the committee is finding itself in a tricky situation considering many districts have varied situations of the contagion there. “Under SUK’s jurisdiction Satara district falls in red zone, while Kolhapur and Sangli are in orange zone. The activities need to be planned according to the movement allowed in these respective zones,” Shinde said. The University Grants Commission (UGC) earlier last week had issued guidelines for higher education. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district primary education officer Asha Ubale told TOI that no private school can demand any kind of fees upfront until the admission process begins. “Parents encountering such situation can complain directly to the education department and appropriate action will be initiated,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/clarity-on-upcoming-academic-calendar-likely-this-week/articleshow/75584730.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 7, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Pregnant women, kids, doctor among Ariyalur’s 188 positive||TRICHY: The central region of the state reported its highest single-day rise of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. As many as 201 people tested positive for the infection that include pregnant women, children and a government doctor with Ariyalur accounting for 188 cases. With this, the central region tally has climbed to 507. Most of those tested positive in Ariyalur district are Koyambedu returnees, their close contacts and secondary contacts. The patients also included a few returnees from other states. Samples taken from them were sent to the government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur for testing. Ariyalur collector D Rathna said that almost all the patients were asymptomatic. “They could be treated here with nutritious food and care. The problematic patients will be shifted to Trichy,” Rathna told ToI. With Wednesday’s cases, Ariyalur emerged as the district having the highest number of patients in the central region with 222 cases. The collector said that doctors will decide on shifting the infected pregnant women to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The district also expects return of people from other areas including Chennai and other states. “Migrants are returning to their native places. We should give them the necessary care,” said the collector. The positive cases include a 37-year-old ENT surgeon working at the government medical college hospital in Ariyalur. Sources said that he had close contacts with four 108 ambulance drivers who returned from Chennai recently, said the officials. Perambalur had three more cases including a 1.5-year-old boy from Nallaurke, a 20-year-old woman from Sathanur and a 35-year-old woman from Veppur. The district’s total cases are 40. A 23-year-old pregnant woman from Natharsha mosque area in Trichy city was the latest patient in the district. The officials said that they were yet to ascertain the source of infection of the patient. With this, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases has climbed to 57 here. Trichy city limit had no new case since April 17. Meanwhile, four patients were discharged from MGMGH on Wednesday, the last of TJ cluster cases in the district. Among the 180 blood samples taken from 180 wholesale vegetable traders, truck drivers and loadmen at the makeshift market at G-corner two days ago, 160 tested negative. The results of 20 are yet to be out. In Pudukottai, two people tested positive on Wednesday. The patients include a 60-year-old man, who was running a vegetable shop at Koyambedu market and a 13-year-old girl from Ayakudi village near Arimalam. Her father is a fruit vendor at Koyambedu market. A Covid-19 patient of Mirattunilai village was discharged from MGMGH on Wednesday. A 47-year-old man from Pallapatti of Karur district tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was running a finance shop in Maharashtra and reached Pallapatti on Sunday by hitchhiking trucks. Thanjavur district registered one positive case on Wednesday. The patient was a 25-year-old Koyambedu returnee and a native of Kalathur village near Peravurani. Four positive cases recorded on Tuesday figured in Wednesday’s list only. They were also workers of Koyambedu market. With this, the total numbers of positive cases have climbed to 63. In Tiruvarur district the total number of cases has risen to 32, with a new positive patient from Vilakkudi village near Thiruthuraipoondi. There was no new case in Nagappattinam on Wednesday. (with inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj and K Sambath Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pregnant-women-kids-doc-among-ariyalurs-188-ve/articleshow/75587114.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Trade union slams 12-hr work shifts||Panaji: Any move by the state government to improve industrial output by increasing the working hours will be opposed by workers, the all India trade union congress (AITUC) said here on Tuesday. AITUC also said that workers who put in more than eight hours of work in a day are entitled to be paid double the wages as overtime. “The working people in Goa will be forced to oppose such undemocratic and arbitrary decision if any is taken by the state government. As per statute, eight hours shift is provided and it is the hard won right of working people achieved after relentless struggles and sacrifices,” AITUC deputy secretary Suhaas Naik said. Industry representatives have approached the government for permission to operate industrial units for 12-hour shifts instead of the present eight hours. Gujarat has already announced an increase in the duration of industrial shifts to 12 hours and the Goa government said that it will consider the proposal to amend the Factories Act to permit 12-hour shifts at work places. “Such proposed move if made by the state government will be against the basic statutory provisions of Factories Act and Minimum wages Act in force,” Naik said. According to the Factories Act, only eight-hour shifts are permissible, and if the workers work beyond eight hours, they are entitled for overtime allowance at double the wage. Overtime cannot be extended beyond eight hours in a week. “We call upon the chief minister and labour minister to intervene and ensure that labour legislations are not flouted ,” Naik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trade-union-slams-12-hr-work-shifts/articleshow/75587817.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Cong slams PM for hiking taxes on fuel||Panaji: Congress on Wednesday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that he has created a record by imposing the highest taxes on fuel in the world at 69% at a time when global crude oil prices are at their lowest in years. On Monday night, the Centre increased various levies on petrol and diesel, taxes now comprise around 69% of fuel cost at fuel bunkers. This is the steepest ever hike in excise duty by Rs 13 per litre on diesel and Rs 10 per litre on petrol. “The migrant workers, the shopkeepers, the farmers, the small and medium businesses are virtually penny less and the Modi government has decided to target Indians by raising taxes on petrol and diesel, which we strongly condemn and demand that petroleum products be sold at cost till economic conditions are normalised,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.  “Modi has increased tax on diesel in the last five and a half years by Rs 28.17 per litre and by Rs 23.50 per litre on petrol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-slams-pm-for-hiking-taxes-on-fuel/articleshow/75587834.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Migrants reach J’khand from Raj via truck; walk for 17km with no intervention from cops||Ranchi: As many as 26 migrant workers from Rajasthan’s Alwar district travelled all the way to Jharkhand on their own and walked around 17 kilometres from one end of the city to another after a mini-truck dropped them at the outskirts of Ranchi, to reach their homes during the ongoing lockdown, without any police personnel stopping them for screening. All of them have currently been put in a shelter home in Hulundu area soon after the administration got to know about the incident. The 26 migrants, of whom 21 belong to Chaibasa and the rest live in Hazaribag, reached Booty More, on the outskirts of the state capital, via a mini-truck on Wednesday morning. TOI spotted 21 migrants in the afternoon near Hawai Nagar area as they were walking towards Tupudana on Khunti Road and when asked about their whereabouts, they said that reached the city from Alwar district after a two-day journey via road. Chandan Pradhan, a resident of Goilkera block in West Singhbhum district, said, “We were working in a steel rolling plant since February and ever since the lockdown was announced, we had to wait for more than a month to get back home since the local administration did not allow inter-state movement. But after the relaxations came into force on May 3, the local administration arranged a vehicle for us and we reached Booty More around 6 am and since then we have been walking towards our home.” Saluka Bodra, another worker from Budhigudha under Chakradharpur block, said, “We have been walking since the time we were dropped by the mini truck at the entry point of the city. Five of my colleagues, who were from Hazaribag, left for their village since they knew the way but we are struggling with finding the route which leads to our village.” When asked if the police had stopped them when they covered the 17km distance from Booty More to Khunti Road by foot, Bodra said, “Nobody stopped us. Instead one of us asked a policeman for directions for reaching Chakradharpur and that is how we reached Khunti Road.” When TOI contacted Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra, he said, “As soon as I received information about their arrival, I shifted them to Fatima Boys Middle School in Hulundu area (under Namkum police station limits). Once their screening is done, they will be sent back to their districts on Friday in buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrants-reach-jkhand-from-raj-via-truck-walk-for-17km-with-no-intervention-from-cops/articleshow/75585735.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Gomia generates MGNREGA jobs for 2k migrants daily||Bokaro: Gomia block in Bokaro is generating employment for 2,000 migrant and local labourers daily through more than 5,000 schemes under MGNREGA, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said on Tuesday. The move has helped around 14,000 labourers in the district. The Maoist-prone area also has a containment zone where five persons tested positive for Covid-19 last month. Kumar said, “Currently, 2,000 workers are engaged every day and we are trying to increase the number on a priority basis.” About the schemes, he said works like jobs like construction of small ponds, wells, plantation among others are being provided to the labourers so that they can earn for their survival. “Social distancing norms are being implemented on the ground,” he added. Gomia BDO Pranab Kumar Ambasht said, “During the lockdown, a large number of migrant labourers returned to their homes in this area. They are jobless and we are trying to help them tide over the economic crisis.” Gomia block has 36 panchayats, of which 22 are in naxal-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gomia-generates-mgnrega-jobs-for-2k-migrants-daily/articleshow/75586291.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur man dies while trying to flee from cops amid lockdown||JAMSHEDPUR: An elderly man died after he suffered a cardiac arrest while trying to escape from the police amid the lockdown in Jamshedpur’s Mango locality on Tuesday night. This is the third lockdown-related death in a month in Steel City, which is a green zone without a single Covid-19 case. Jharkhand is continuing with a complete lockdown across the state until May 17 as chief minister Hemant Soren has not given any relaxation in any part of the state even though 11 of 24 districts have not reported a single Covid-19 case. Mohamed Akil (50), an apparel store owner, was at his shop, which he had opened earlier in the evening, when the police reached the area around 10pm. He quickly downed the shutters at his shop and tried to escape, but collapsed while he was on the run. Locals took him to Tata Main Hospital (TMH) after he complained of uneasiness, but he died before the doctors could attend to him. Mango police station in-charge Mithilesh Kumar said, “A police van was on patrolling duty when the Akil saw us and tried to flee even though the team did not initiate any action against him. As he ran into a narrow lane, the cops left the spot. We only learnt later that he died while attempting to escape. His family has not lodged any complaint, but his son Mohamed Gulab has claimed his father died after the police chased him. Akil’s last rites were held on Wednesday morning. A post-mortem was not required in this case as the cause of death is beyond suspicion.” Kumar said. In a similar incident on April 6, Vicky Mahato (26) jumped in the lake and drowned while running away from the police in the city’s Birsanagar police station area on April 6. On April 4, Lakhinder Behra (34), died after his neighbour pushed him down from the second floor of his residential building. They had got into an altercation as Behra dumped garbage in the building as he could not got out amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-man-dies-while-trying-to-flee-from-cops-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75585514.cms||B Sridhar
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Rims anti-Covid staff among two fresh cases in Ranchi||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded two new Covid-19 cases, both from Ranchi, on Thursday. One of them is a frontline anti-Covid worker posted at Rims. A total of 768 samples were tested on Wednesday, including 18 at private labs. The testing figure is the highest for the state since the outbreak. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “A total of 750 samples were tested across four centres and two people from Ranchi tested positive for Covid-19. One is a healthcare worker from our Covid-19 hospital at RIMS and another is a resident of Hindpiri area.” Of the two cases, one is a 25 year old female from the containment zone of Hindpiri while the other is a 52-year-old nursing at Rimswho was under quarantine after weeklong duty. The Hindpiri woman was tested during a door-to-door screening campaign a couple of days ago. Rims director Dr D K Singh said: “One of our nursing staff has been diagnosed with the viral infection and she has been shifted to our isolation centre for treatment. She was under quarantine at a city hotel. The hospital is being sanitized and we will collect samples of other health workers housed at that facility.” Meanwhile, four of the nine patients who recovered on Tuesday were discharged from RIMS on Wednesday and were advised to stay in home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-anti-covid-staff-among-2-fresh-cases-in-city/articleshow/75586475.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Mithilesh defends social media post on Punjab trains||Ranchi: State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur on Wednesday defended a post he put up on social media post on Monday saying two trains to Jharkhand would be starting from Ludhiana and Jalandhar on Tuesday and stranded migrants should reach the stations to return home. Several migrants gathered at Ludhiana station and police had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. On Tuesday, a tweet from Ludhiana police commissioner asked Thakur to refrain from creating law and order issues by posting incorrect information. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday, Thakur defended his post. He said: “The train that left Jalandhar reached Daltonganj on Wednesday morning. The other one from Ludhiana is leaving on Wednesday. Where was I wrong?” Thakur also criticized BJP for creating a ruckus over the incident. On Tuesday, to manage law the and order, Punjab police deployed 100 personnel of the Anti-Riot Police (ARP) outside the railway station. The police are further coordinating with Government Railway Police to manage the rush of passengers and ensure their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mithilesh-defends-social-media-post-on-punjab-trains/articleshow/75586244.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Muslim youth travels from Giridih to H’bag to donate blood||Hazaribag: A Muslim youth from Giridih’s Bagodar block on Wednesday ended his Ramzan fast abruptly, rode to private hospital in Hazaribag, defying lockdown norms, and donated blood to an eight-year-old boy who was suffering from acute pneumonia. Salim Ansari, a resident of Bagodar’s Kusumraja village, learnt about Nikhil Kumar, who was in need of the rare A+ blood group. Nikhil’s father Kawaljit had been running from pillar to post to procure a unit of blood. When he went to Hazaribag blood bank, Kawaljit was asked to look for a donor. “I rang up my father in Bagodar to look for an A+ donor and he found Ansari,” Kawaljit said. Upon getting to know about Nikhil’s need, Ansari rang up Kawaljit and sought the nursing home’s address. Then, he arranged a vehicle and rode to Hazaribag to donate blood. Speaking to TOI, Ansari said: “The almighty will not punish me for breaking my fast. Whatever I did was a call of humanity.” Mohammad Qutubuddin Rizvi, secretary of Edar E Sharia Hazaribag, hailed Ansari’s act. “He did a pious act during the holy month of Ramzan,” Rizvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/muslim-youth-travels-from-giridih-to-hbag-to-donate-blood/articleshow/75585567.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||CBSE schools write to government with plea against fee waiver||RANCHI: After the state government formed a committee to look into the demands of fee waivers at private schools, CBSE-affiliated educational institutes of Ranchi on Wednesday wrote a letter to the state government voicing their concerns. Listing out a slew of expenses being borne by the schools even during the lockdown, the letter, signed by representatives of the schools, mentioned “if fee collection is stopped, the schools will be left with only two options — asking for financial aid from the government for fixed expenses and salaries or a failure to run the schools.” The letter also mentioned that the schools haven’t stopped functioning and are holding online classes. “The school managements are also bearing taxes and other expenses and if fee collection is stopped, the schools will not be able to bear these expenses,” the letter read. As a breather to the parents, the letter mentioned that the schools are willing to take up a few measures. “No CBSE school will charge late fee for the next six months and will only charge money for 11 months this session.” The letter further added, “Instead of quarterly fees, the schools are willing to accept fees every month and parents will not be forced to pay the fees.” Principal of Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Samarjit Jana, said, “Our teachers are taking online classes even during the lockdown. Some of them are not even tech savvy, but are still managing somehow and working 10-12 hours a day.” Jana added, “We do not have enough balance in our account and the last month’s salary was paid from the fixed deposits. If the situation continues, we will not be able to pay our staff as the only source of income for us is the fee collected from the students.” Principal of Vidya Vikas Public School, Morabadi, said, “We try to maintain proper standards of teaching and it requires money. Our teachers are working day and night and learning how to use technology to teach students digitally. We have assured to help parents in all the possible way. The government should help us in paying our staff if they ask us not to take fees.” Meanwhile, the parents association is in no mood to relent. In a letter to the chief minister, All Jharkhand Parents Association asked the government to gather financial records of all private schools for the last five years and check whether they are able to give concession on fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cbse-schools-approach-govt-with-plea-against-fee-waiver/articleshow/75591655.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||3 spl trains bring back 3,500 migrants from Gujarat, Punjab, Kerala||Ranchi/Sindri/ Daltonganj: The Jharkhand government on Wednesday said it has brought back more than 10,000 migrants and students stranded in other states in special trains so far. On Wednesday, close to 3,500 migrants disembarked from three Shramik special trains from Gujarat, Punjab, Kerala at various stations in Jharkhand. Transport secretary K Ravikumar, in a briefing to journalists at the state secretariat in Dhurwa, said 12 trains have arrived in Jharkhand from various parts of the country since May 1. “As many as 10,054 persons have been brought to Jharkhand in these trains. Of them, 2,146 are students,” he said. Ravikumar said six railway stations in the state have been designated to receive the special trains. “However, the schedule and movement of the trains will be kept under wraps for security and other purposes,” he said. Meanwhile, three Shramik special trains rolled into Hatia, Dhanbad and Daltonganj stations on Wednesday ferrying roughly 3,500 migrants from Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab. Since May 1, the railways has ran six Shramik special trains and two special trains to bring back stranded students. Another train from Ludhiana is expected to arrive in Daltonganj on Thursday morning. On Wednesday morning, a Shramik special train carrying 1,144 migrants rolled into Hatia station from Ernakulam. Passengers showed their tickets and said they were charged Rs 825 and above before boarding the train. Another batch of 1,233 workers from Jharkhand arrived at Dhanbad station from Surat in Gujarat in a special train in the early hours of Wednesday. While they expressed joy on returning to their homes amid the prevailing uncertainty, the passengers said they paid general ticket charges before boarding the train. Many of the workers were accompanied by their family members who were welcomed with flowers and snacks before being sent to their respective districts by buses after thermal screening. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said: “A total of 1,157 passengers were from Giridih, 40 from Deoghar, 27 from Ranchi, two from Dhanbad and one each from Hazaribag and Koderma districts.” Seven workers from Jamui in Bihar were also on boarded the train. Pratap Singh from Jamui said: “We used to work in a textiles mill in Surat. When we learnt that our friends were returning home, we handed over our Aadhaar cards to local head Rajesh Verma for tickets. We were told the train would stop at Gaya and we could alight there. However, the train did not stop anywhere until we reached Dhanbad.” Toofan Singh, another migrant from Jamui, said: “The salary that we were given before the lockdown was exhausted over 40 days. Now we don’t have enough resources to reach Jamui on our own. We have requested the Dhanbad district authorities to arrange for our travel home.” Another special train from Jalandhar arrived at Daltonganj station with 1,100 passengers at 9.30am on Wednesday. The migrants were taken to their respective blocks on buses and lodged at institutional quarantine centres. Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said, “Jalandhar is a red zone and we do not have the option of putting them under home quarantine. Two more trains — from Ludhiana (Punjan) and Surat (Gujarat) — are expected to reach Daltonganj on Thursday and Friday. Those returning will be met received with the same protocols.” More than two lakh migrants are expected to return to Palamu, Garhwa and neighbouring districts in the coming days. The Palamu district administration on Wednesday imposed a night curfew between 7pm and 7am till May 17 to deter people from gathering and monitor the movement of migrants returning to the district. Agrahari said, “During the night curfew, movement of people and vehicles, barring emergency services and ambulances, will be prohibited. People can carry out permitted outdoor activities between 7am and 7pm, but citizens above 65, children below 10 and pregnant women will not be allowed to venture out at any time of the day.” On Wednesday evening, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “The government will facilitate the travel of all migrants who wish to return to their homes in the coming days.” Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Wednesday asked the Indian Railways to ferry the state’s migrants without charging them any money as Jharkhand contributes the highest share to the Railways earnings every year. “The Hemant Soren government has repeatedly said that it will bear the ticket cost for the migrants return to their home state, but there is no coordination from the Railways. The Railways earned Rs 27,000 crore from Jharkhand in the previous financial year. Why can’t it bear the expenses incurred in the transportation of the migrants?” Patralekh told journalists on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-spl-trains-bring-back-3500-migrants-from-gujarat-punjab-kerala/articleshow/75585684.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro admin develops system to facilitate migrants’ return||Bokaro: The Bokaro district administration has developed a technology-based system to facilitate the return and entry of migrants. The technology will also help the authorities track the migrants upon their arrival, among others. The system, which has been named Saral, was designed by two engineering students — Abhishek Kumar (22) and Chitransh Lodha (22) — and two aspirational district fellows, Aaditya Mohan (27) and Aditya Arun (27). “Final-year engineering students Chitransh and Abhishek, along with Aaditya Mohan and Aditya Arun took five days to develop Saral. From locating those stranded in other cities, to classifying their professions, arrival points and consequent surveillance, Saral can manage it all,” deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said. Saral will provide real-time data of every migrant returning to Bokaro. Based on the information, a team of 40 volunteers will work on the ground to manage their arrival and ensure that Covid-19 pandemic does not spread in the district. The initial ground work for Saral was carried out by a call centre formed with employees of the collectorate. These employees contacted over the phone around 38,000 people living outside the state. After that, a list of 20,000 people who want to return to Bokaro was prepared. The unique thing about Saral is that it will help the administration know how many migrants are returning to individual blocks and panchayats. “This would help us in keeping a vigil on the migrants after they return home. Also, it would help us provide the returnees with jobs,” said Mohan. According to the Saral team, out of the nine blocks in the district, Gomia with 6,203 persons will receive the most number of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-admin-develops-system-to-facilitate-migrants-return/articleshow/75586514.cms||Divy Khare
May 7, 2020||Ranchi||Cops bust Koderma wedding, help couple tie knot in Palamu||Ranchi/Daltonganj: The coronavirus crisis has changed the way weddings take place in the rural areas of the state. With prior permissions, limited number of guests and adherence to social distancing protocols becoming mandatory, the authorities have been filing cases against those who violate the norms and also going all out to help couples tie the knot with precautionary measures in place. Koderma police on Wednesday filed an FIR against 50 persons, including the bride, the groom, their family members, a priest and 40 unnamed persons, for organising a marriage ceremony without permission from the district administration on Tuesday night. The ceremony, which took place at a temple in Indrwa Basti under Tilaiyya police station area, had more guests than permitted during the lockdown. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Koderma SP Ehtesham Waquarib said. “So far, no one has been detained,” he added. Waquarib said several guests fled from the venue when they saw the police, but the police found Suraj Yadav, Babulal Pandey, Sunita Devi and Rajesh Yadav from the groom’s family and Suresh Yadav, Dhaneshwar Yadav, Baleshwar Yadav, Dolly Kumari, Ajay Yadav and Mohan Das from the bride’s family at the spot. The families failed to show any papers that permitted the ceremony to take place. Police said they went ahead with the marriage following lockdown protocols after the family members submitted an application before the local block development officer. In Palamu, the marriage of a 25-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman was solemnised amid a small gathering overseen by the district administration, officials said on Wednesday. Only eight persons — four each from bridegroom Pawan Kumar and bride Khushbu Kumari families -- were allowed to attend the ceremony at Chianki village on Tuesday evening under the supervision of a doctor and two health personnel from Palamau Medical College, a senior official said. The venue was sanitised and all the attendees were thermally screened before being allowed to attend the event, Palamu DC Shantanu Kumar Agrahari said. “The ritual of exchanging garlands was done away with and the priest chanted the hymns from a distance of two metres from the bride and the groom. The eight attendees also stood at a distance of two metres from each other. Everyone had worn masks,” he said. “We are happy the marriage was solemnised. The ceremony was scheduled to take place a few weeks ago and had to be postponed due to the lockdown,” the groom's father Sudheswar Ram said. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-bust-koderma-wedding-help-couple-tie-knot-in-palamu/articleshow/75585808.cms||---
May 7, 2020||India||Riyaz Naikoo: Maths teacher who became a dreaded terror overlord||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: Top Hizbul Mujahideen commander in J&K Riyaz Naikoo was a Maths teacher at a private school and would give free Maths tuitions to children in his native village of Baighpora before he shifted gears to join Hizbul Mujahideen in June 2012 and climbed up its hierarchy to become the most dreaded local terror commander who regularly courted Pakistani-based jihadi commanders for resources and patronage. The turning point that led Naikoo to the path of mindless violence came in 2010, with the killing of a local Kashmiri teenager Tufail Ahmed Mattoo by a police teargas shell. The killing of the 17-year old from a teargas shell that ripped through his skull, had then sparked of a cycle of unrest and violent protests in the Valley. Scores of protesting Kashmiri youth were arrested by the police and Naikoo was one of them. When he was released from prison in 2012, something had changed inside the young maths teacher. In May 2012, Riyaz is said to have asked his father, who owns a tailoring shop, for money to enrol for a course. He disappeared soon after and the Naikoos were informed that their firstborn had joined the ranks of Hizbul Mujahideen. Intelligence and police dossiers on Naikoo, record him as an A++ category terrorist who was known for his Houdini act during encounters with the security forces. Though the forces closed in on him several times, he was an elusive catch who managed an escape from the cordon each time with the help of locals among whom he either commanded respect or evoked fear. On Wednesday, however, he ran out of luck. Naikoo was born to Asadullah and Zeba in Beighpora village of Awantipora tehsil district Pulwama in April 1985. His family owned fields in Beighpora, though Asadullah had also started a small tailoring shop. The second among a sister and three brothers, Naikoo studied at the government school in the neighboring village of Gulzarpora, and then at the Higher Secondary School in Noorpora—home to the family of Zakir Musa, the man he would eventually replace as the Hizbul Mujahideen’s operational commander. Naikoo wished to do engineering but went on pursue his graduation in science with Mathematics as his main subject. He was really good at Maths but also showed a keen interest in construction. He helped his family in the construction of his house and in the spare time helped his parents in the agricultural activities. In class XII, Naikoo scored over 77%. He was always the silent type and everyone in the village would think very highly of him. He was regular at praying and reading Quran and at a very young age was called upon by village elders to sort out local disputes. Like Burhan before him, Riyaz's transition from rookie to one of Kashmir's most-wanted terrorists was rapid and ruthless, say intelligence officials. He took over the reins of the outfit at a time when there was turmoil within over Burhan's death in a 2016 encounter in Anantnag and attempts by his immediate successor, Zakir Rashid Bhat alias Zakir Musa, to give the armed rebellion in the Valley an al-Qaida spin. After Musa was expelled by Syed Salahuddin, Hizbul Mujahideen's supreme commander in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Riyaz stepped in to get the outfit back on track and chart a terror trail that would test and torment security forces for the next four years. "Riyaz's primary strategy was to target police personnel and their families in south Kashmir while relentlessly recruiting youth to expand the outfit's reach," an official said. "He was also known for his audacity. In January 2016, during the funeral of Shariq Ahmad Bhat, who had been killed in an encounter, Riyaz fired shots in the air with his Kalashnikov rifle to revive a forgotten tradition of paying tribute to slain terrorists." When J&K Police detained his father and relatives of some other terrorists in August 2018 for questioning, Riyaz got his outfit to retaliate by kidnapping 11 family members of cops from Shopian, Kulgam, Anantnag and Awantipora. The 11 hostages were freed only after the police allowed Asadullah and the others to go home. Incidentally, his targetting of policemen, all local Kashmiris, had created a divide in Hizbul leadership based in PoK with many disapproving of the same. Naikoo was a successful recruiter, had a robust network of overground workers and motivated many young Kashmiris to join the outfit. He had been promoting Pakistani propaganda and was a supporter of Pakistan in Kashmir. Naikoo, who liked making audio and video statements through social media, operated under the code name Mohammad Bin Qasim and was notorious for extortion, inspector-general (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said. "Apart from targeting orchard owners and farmers to keep cash flowing into the outfit's coffers, he would take heavy cuts from people involved in illicit opium cultivation in south Kashmir. His outfit also figured in the narco trade case in Jammu, where a huge sum of sale proceeds was found to have been transferred to one of his contacts," Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maths-teacher-who-became-a-dreaded-terror-overlord/articleshow/75589164.cms||Bharti Jain
May 7, 2020||Goa||Goa tourism to conduct survey to assess losses of hospitality industry||PANAJI: Goa tourism along with its consultancy KPMG advisory services has launched a state-wide survey among state tourism stakeholders with the objective of collecting data on extended losses, current needs and proactive measures to be taken. The survey will play a factor in expectations of the hospitality industry from the government. Hospitality industry is the worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Tourism stakeholders can access the survey link on Goa tourism’s website at http://goa-tourism.com/covid19survey, stated Goa tourism in the press statement on Wednesday. As on Wednesday, Goa tourism have received responses from over 400 tourism stakeholders such as hotels, tourism activities, tour and travel operators, event organisers, taxi drivers, tourist guides, photographers, and other tourism related businesses’ and individuals, the statement read. As Goa tourism intends to hear all and it extends helping hand to all tourism professionals. Those who have not yet given their inputs have been appealed to participate in the survey. The survey questionnaire will be online on GTDC’s website till May 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-tourism-to-conduct-survey-to-assess-losses-of-hospitality-industry/articleshow/75589187.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 7, 2020||Goa||Tired of ‘revising’, students sign petition to scrap exam||Panaji: Every bit you have heard about Class X students going through anxiety because of uncertainty over their exam, is true, say the teenagers, over 400 of whom have signed an online petition to ask the state government to cancel the Class X state board exam. Dillon, a resident of Taleigao, says he is tired of studying the same portion over and over again. Due to restrictions in movement because of the lockdown, he has been denied exercise or play time. Access to the internet has been curtailed for him at home because he is expected to spend more time studying, says the Class X student. Dillon is not the only one. Around 20,000 students are waiting to answer the exam. They ask why the state government is insisting on conducting the exams in the face of a pandemic. “This is a very painful experience. Because of the lockdown, we cannot go out to play or exercise. Our life is like hell, we don’t have anything to do other than studying. We have reached a point where we are forgetting a lot of things taught by our teachers,” Dillon says. He says that internal marks should be considered to declare Class X results and that entrance exams can be held to select student for higher secondary school seats. “Even if we answer now, not all students are confident. A student who really wanted to go for science stream will end up in arts because of percentage. Instead, I feel that considering the present situation of all the students (not only the few bookworms), online classes for Class XI should begin so one more precious year of learning is not wasted,” says Sanath, another student. A resident of Panaji, Yash Prasad Joshi, says pessimism is beginning to set in. “Already lockdown restrictions are hampering us. The government stresses that we are the future of the nation, and now it is risking young lives by insisting on having the exam. Even though we are in a green zone, we are not 100% safe from Covid-19,” says Yash, who also wants the Goa government to make an exception and carry out promotions based on internal marks. Shafuga Karol, who started the online petition, cites students’ mental health as an issue. “SSC students have been stuck with these books for months and we need break, and the lockdown makes matters worse. Students have been studying the same syllabus for more than a year ,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tired-of-revising-students-sign-petition-to-scrap-exam/articleshow/75589211.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Goa||Department of posts suspends official for turning citizen away||Quepem: The department of posts has placed an official from Quepem under suspension, pending inquiry, after he allegedly turned away a woman seeking to withdraw cash certificates twice, asking her to return after the lockdown. Reacting to TOI’s report published on Wednesday ‘Quepem post office still in lockdown’, postmaster general N Vinodkumar deputed a post inspector to Quepem for an inquiry .“As part of the inquiry, the official has been suspended. The senior superintendent will take further action after receipt of the detailed inquiry report,” Vinodkumar told TOI. Nelcy Rodrigues, a Quepem resident in need of money, went to thepost office twice to withdraw her two Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) certificates which were due for payment. The postal assistant, however, told her that only essential services are allowed due to the lockdown Post inspector Pramod Magare from the Ponda subdivision was assigned to conduct a quick inquiry of the complaint. Magare called Rodrigues to the post office and after extending her an apology, encashed her two KVP certificates. “Despite the postal assistant’s behaviour, Rodrigues deposited Rs 70,000 from her savings account into Vikas Kisan Patra certificate," Magare told TOI. “I am thankful to the postmaster general and his entire team for their quick action. My faith in the postal savings system has been restored,” said Rodrigues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/department-of-posts-suspends-official-for-turning-citizen-away/articleshow/75589215.cms||Johnny M
May 7, 2020||India||Delhi, West Bengal & Punjab plan to deliver booze at home||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH/KOLKATA/RAIPUR: With liquor sale across the country leading to chaos on streets and people abandoning social distancing norms to stock booze, a number of states have now decided on home delivery of liquor to counter the possibility of spread of the virus. Delhi, Punjab, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh have taken the lead, with some launching apps and portals for people to order online. The Delhi government is mulling to start home delivery of liquor, sources privy to the development said. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev has asked excise commissioner Ravi Dhawan to prepare a detailed proposal and submit to the government “at the earliest”, a senior Delhi government official told TOI. The final decision will be taken by the elected dispensation, he added. Both Dev and Dhawan did not respond to calls and text messages for comments. With Punjab set to launch doorstep delivery of liquor from Thursday, the state government clarified that this service will continue only till the duration of the lockdown. However, Punjab is yet to formalise a central system for people to place order. Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation will start doorstep delivery of liquor via an app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-west-bengal-punjab-plan-to-deliver-booze-at-home/articleshow/75589220.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Gaya||Railway institute shifting has reopened Gaya OTA wound, says Sangharsh Samiti Convener||GAYA: Strongly denouncing the decision to shift Indian Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Jamalpur (Bihar) to Lucknow, Vijay Kumar Mithu, a member of the AICC and convener of the OTA Bachao Sangharsh Samiti has said that the Jamalpur Institute’s shifting has reopened the wound inflicted by the shifting of Officers Training Academy from Gaya to Chennai. The relocation of both OTA and Railway Institute outside the state was a great injustice to Bihar, he said. He said, "The shifting decision was ill timed as the country’s priority right now is to fight Covid. May be the railway officials are taking advantage of the lockdown as no public protest was possible on the account of the prohibitory orders." But it will be opposed through every available democratic option, he said. OTA, Gaya, it may be recalled, was one of the three institutes imparting military training to officers of the Indian army. The other two institutes are located in Dehradun and Delhi. In December 2019, the last batch of The OTA Gaya trained officers passed out. On 7 December 2019, altogether 96 officers, 87 direct recruits and nine from the serving army personnel from lower ranks were inducted into the army. This was the last pass out batch conducted by the Gaya academy. Besides the 96 officers of the Indian army, 4 cadets from Bhutan also got training at Gaya along with the Indian army officers. Making a comparison between OTA Gaya and the Jamalpur based Railway Institute, Vijay Kumar Mithu said that the 97 years old the Jamalpur institute was much older than OTA, Gaya. Besides the local economy, the OTA shifting also affected about 800 civilian employees working in the academy, said Mithu. The Sangharsh Samiti convener recalled that OTA, Gaya was established in 2011 to train 750 officers, but the actual intake was only about one -hird of the stipulated strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gaya/railway-institute-shifting-has-reopened-gaya-ota-wound-says-sangharsh-samiti-convener/articleshow/75589245.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Seven held for killing youth over sexual harassment case in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In yet another brutal murder during the lockdown, seven persons have been arrested for allegedly assaulting and killing a 27-year-old man and injuring two of his brothers in Chembur late Tuesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Prashant Panvalkar and his brothers are Shankar and Prahlad. This is the third murder in the last 10 days. In a case registered at RCF police station in Chembur, tharrested persons have been named as Ashish Yadav, Ajit Gupta, Sriram Yadav, Rudram Yadav, Pradeep Morya, Govind Yadav and Rahul Yadav. The police said the two main accused, Ashish Yadav and Ajit Gupta, had allegedly sexually harassed Panvalkar’s fiancee which had led to a huge fight between the two groups last week. The two groups ended up lodging non-cognizable offences. “On Tuesday evening, the accused persons barged into Panvalkar’s house and assaulted him with a chopper, sword and cricket bat even as people watched,” said an officer. When his two brothers intervened, they assaulted them too and fled. All the accused persons have been arrested and remanded in police custody and the weapons have been recovered, said assistant commissioner of police Srikant Desai. The two injured brothers are recovering at Rajawadi Hospital. Last month two brothers had been killed and a third one was seriously injured over rivalry in Wadala. Also, two youths were killed in Govandi last week over setting up of a water booth. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/seven-held-for-killing-youth-over-sexual-harassment-case-in-mumbai/articleshow/75589259.cms||Ahmed Ali
May 7, 2020||Hyderabad||How tipplers are beating the queue: Line up maids, women staff for their fill||HYDERABAD: It was maids and women colleagues who came to the rescue of men who wanted to avoid serpentine queues to get hold of a bottle after 45 days of lockdown in the city. While most waited under the scorching sun, many women were seen walking away with liquor bottles within minutes as a separate queue for women was empty. Day 1 of liquor sales on Wednesday in the city was largely devoid of the chaos witnessed in other states. Social distancing norms were followed in some places, while at many outlets people just queued up to get their stock. With the state increasing the prices by 16%, excise officials pegged the sales on Wednesday at about Rs 75 crore, which was more than the earlier daily average sale of about Rs 45-50 crore. “I have never stepped into a liquor shop until today. All of a sudden my colleague requested us to come to a liquor mart,” said a woman who bought a carton that was promptly placed by her friends in the trunk of their car. Another person, waiting outside the store said she had come to pick up beer bottles for her male colleagues. Some send office helpers to buy boozeAs word spread on social media, some even sent their attendants from the workplace to get liquor for themselves. There were women who were initially not allowed inside a liquor store in Madhapur for not wearing masks. Speaking to TOI, some house helps clad in saris said they did feel out of place but had no option except to follow the instruction of their boss. Some women helpers had a hard time figuring out digital payments. A woman, an attendant with the electricity department, had to make multiple calls before she could make the purchase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-tipplers-are-beating-the-queue-line-up-maids-women-staff-for-their-fill/articleshow/75589306.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 7, 2020||Delhi||12,000 migrants want to leave Delhi, first train to depart on Friday||NEW DELHI: The first batch of migrants from Madhya Pradesh working in Delhi is likely to go back in a special train on Friday. Sources said the Delhi government is in touch with the MP government and the railway ministry, and a train carrying a few hundred migrants may leave from one of the city’s railway stations. According to officials, about 12,000 people – mostly migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students – have till Wednesday expressed their willingness to go back to their native states. These include 2,100 migrants stuck in temporary and night shelters. Officials said the process was still on and trains and buses would be arranged to send them back. First train to MP: List of migrants being finalisedChief minister Arvind Kejriwal and top bureaucrats are deliberating with all stakeholders in the MP government and the railways ministry and we want to start the process of sending back the migrants who are desirous to go back at the earliest,” said an official. Officials said the final list of people who would board the first train to MP was being finalised. “They will first be screened and only asymptomatic people will be allowed to board the train as per the protocol. They will again be screened at their destinations before the MP government provide them the transport to reach their villages. These people will have to be in compulsory home quarantine for two weeks,” the official said. Apart from identifying such people living in night shelters and temporary lodgings set up in various schools and sports complexes, the Delhi government has started inviting applications thorough an online form. A link on www.delhishelterboard.in has been created to help people from other states stranded in Delhi provide information to the government. According to the government, only those in distress will be sent back to their hometowns and not everyone who is settled in Delhi. The website has two forms, one for those stranded in the capital and willing to move out and the other is for those stranded in other states and want to come back to Delhi. The applicant will have to submit details, including Aadhaar number. Applicants can call 8860828482, 8700373850, 8920431697 or 9971206714 for assistance in filling up the form between 9am and 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12000-migrants-want-to-leave-delhi-first-train-to-leave-on-friday/articleshow/75589344.cms||Atul Mathur
May 7, 2020||Business||Paucity of staff, finance a hurdle for Bengal Inc||Kolkata: Corporate Bengal is gradually planning to restart business operations following the relaxation announced for industrial activity by both the state and the Central governments in the last one week. A few companies are encountering some teething problems in restarting operations while for others it is relatively smoother. But, unavailability of workers, bank finance and raw materials are the imposing problems for most of the industries. On permission front, some corporate outfits like Nicco Engineering of Rajive Kaul have got nod to restart work in a record time and the same is the story for Trishul Engineering, an engineering solutions firm founded by Aniruddha Lahiri. However, companies like Eveready are yet to get permission to restart operation. Eveready’s Taratala factory produces D-size dry cell battery. Ankit Mittal, the director of Shakambhari group, a steel manufacturer, pointed out that that steel and cement have been facing hurdles for the last one year because of reduced spending in infrastructure and real estate sector, which were not doing too well. “We are not getting payments from our customers now. Bank finance is also not easily available. We have already resumed operations with maintaining social distance in our Purulia plant and will do it in West Burdwan. But it is a difficult task now as labourers are not available,” he added. The group has four plants in West Bengal. Mittal was vocal about bank finance for working capital and enhance credit limit and backing from state government. Lalit Beriwala, director of Shyam Steel, also agreed that relaxation in banking norms is needed. Besides, he asked for do away with minimum electricity charges for factories. “Our factories have been closed for the last 45 days. The electricity charges should be based on actual usage,” he added. Shyam Steel has five units in the state. It is restarting units in green and orange zones in the next two-three days. “We shall commence operation with a limited workforce,” he said. Madhur Agarwalla, director of Maithan Group, another steel player, has restarted operations with 33% workforce. He is optimistic demand for steel would come from rural India. “Now, a lot of rural projects are also happening,” he added. Sandip Ghosh, COO of Birla Corporation, the leading cement and jute manufacturer, is also optimistic that there is a latent demand in India as the entire pipeline was dry. He pointed out that many workers have gone back to villages and bringing them back is a problem. “Transportation logistics should normalise fast,” he said. Birla Corp started its cement plant in Durgapur with 30% capacity. “Some rural infrastructure work would start soon.” Gyanesh Chaudhary, MD of Vikram Solar, said that his company has started operation in Falta SEZ but is facing problem of physical documentation as it is an export unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paucity-of-staff-finance-a-hurdle-for-bengal-inc/articleshow/75587747.cms||---
May 7, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t panic, 21% patients in Mumbai have recovered: BMC||MUMBAI: The state added 1,233 cases, its second highest jump in a day so far. The previous highest single-day addition was 1,567 cases on May 4, but the public health department had not given it as a consolidated increase but had split it into two sets, one of which included older test reports. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who had a meeting with his state counterpart Rajesh Tope, said in a presser in Delhi that the situation in Maharashtra was a “matter of concern” as 34 out of 36 districts are affected by Covid-19. He said they will hold a meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray as well to discuss further course of action. Despite the deaths, the case fatality rate in the state and the city has continued to decline and is at 3.88% and 3.84% respectively. Of the 25 deaths, 19 patients had co-morbidities. 15 were men and 10 women. One death was of a person below 40 years old, and 12 were of those above 60 years. The remaining dozen deaths were of people aged between 40 and 60. Commenting on the jump in cases, BMC said 215 were patients tested between May 2 and May 4, and their reports were added to the tally on Wednesday. The BMC said it was planning to set-up more corona care centres (CCCs) in the next two weeks. CCC2s are where asymptomatic positives from dense slum pockets are being kept. The new facilities being developed are at Mahalaxmi race course, Nehru Science Centre, MMRDA ground in BKC, Mahim Nature Park and NESCO Ground, Goregaon. “With these new facilities, total capacity will be enhanced from existing 14,000 to 34,000 beds,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. The critical care beds are being increased from 3,000 to 4,750 in hospitals like Nair, KEM, Seven Hills, etc. Mobile ICU beds are also being planned at the NSCI Dome. The civic body said the recovery rate was miles ahead of fatality rate, and citizens shouldn’t panic. “Out of the total cases reported, 21% patients in the city have recovered and gone home. Citizens are requested not to panic if they test positive,” the civic body said in a statement. It told people not to rush to big hospitals as asymptomatic patients can be homequarantined if they met the health and other criteria. Three deaths each were recorded in Akola and Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Solapur. There was also one death of an Uttar Pradesh resident. Thane recorded 3 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-panic-21-patients-in-mumbai-have-recovered-bmc/articleshow/75589342.cms||Sumitra Debroy
