May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||RWAs behaving like hostel wardens during lockdown: Residents||The battles between residents and RWAs are never-ending — they are fought over entry of guests, locked gates, feeding of strays, etc. Residents often accuse RWAs of making inane rules, while the latter stress that the rules are for safety reasons. The coronavirus lockdown that has been in place for close to two months, has added a substantial amount of fuel to this already raging fire. Even though some restrictions are valid to tackle the pandemic and many RWAs are helping elderly residents and those less fortunate, the daily diktats and obsessive monitoring has earned some overreaching RWAs the tag of hostel wardens from residents. From banning newspapers, home deliveries, and visitors, as well as having residents leaving the premises on work or otherwise to state said reason at the entry/exit gate, there are bizarre rules that overzealous RWAs have come up with since the lockdown. “Our management committee decided to approach the lockdown with an iron first by restricting even residents from going for a walk around the blocks. The only exemption was pet owners. The few who decided to head out for their walks/jogs were photographed and publicly shamed on internal communication channels,” says Vinod Kumar, a resident of a gated community in south Bengaluru, adding, “We even had police officials drive through the campus twice a day to ensure no one was out for non-essential work.” Another apartment complex in south Bengaluru took it a step further, when they also began insisting on checking the boot of residents’ cars coming into the society. “ I was asked to open the boot for inspection when I returned home after a routine grocery run. I tried finding out why, but didn’t get a satisfactory response from the RWA. Perhaps, they think we may try to smuggle in our house helps,” jests Ravi V, a resident from a society in Hebbal. Also, despite assurance from experts that newspapers don’t spread coronavirus, many RWAs jumped to ban that too. “Yes, we stopped newspaper distribution, but our decision was driven by requests from residents. While we tried pointing out that they faced the same dangers from vendors supplying essentials, they countered that those could be washed and disinfected, which is not the case with a newspaper. So, we stopped newspaper distribution in mid-March,” says a member of an RWA in Whitefield. ‘RWAs stop food deliveries and guests’ Ravi adds, “The focus from the start was to ensure that we have no infections within the campus, so, our RWA started imposing restrictions. Apart from banning maids, cooks, drivers, car cleaners and other help, door delivery was stopped and common areas identified where they could leave the orders. What was also stopped was visitors of any sorts. Although, my sister lives at an apartment complex nearby, she has not been able to visit us since the lockdown. I can’t even go and bring her with me, because at the gate, the security has been instructed to verify resident status on an app." Although some apartments allow food and grocery delivery to designated areas, they have been actively advising people against resorting to it, especially with regard to food. “Two days ago, we received a circular advising against ordering cooked food, stating that it would be impossible for them to ascertain the whereabouts of the delivery person. They cited the case of a pizza delivery boy in Delhi who tested positive as an example,” says Nidhi K*, a resident of an apartment in south Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rwas-behaving-like-hostel-wardens-during-lockdown-residents/articleshow/75607205.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||High court to hear urgent matters through video conferencing||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa will hear urgent judicial matters on notified court working days on May 8, 12, 15 and 19 between 11 am and 1 pm. In order to reduce the physical presence of lawyers, litigants and court staff due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the court will hear the urgent matters through video conferencing. The high court has listed out a number of precautions that need to be taken during court hearing. Advocates, litigants and staff have been advised to install the Arogya Setu app on their mobile phones, produce identity proof at entry point of the court complex and maintain social distancing. No person will be permitted to enter the court premises without a mask. Anyone showing signs or symptoms of Covid-19 will not be able to enter court rooms and must be sent to an isolation room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-court-to-hear-urgent-matters-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/75610964.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 8, 2020||Goa||Panaji municipal market complex opens after six weeks||PANAJI: The Panaji municipal market complex opened on Thursday after a long hiatus of six weeks, ever since it was sealed in view of the nationwide lockdown. In the runup to the reopening, the migrant force employed by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had been working very hard since the past few days to wash off paan stains, clean the toilets and disinfect the entire building. Now, the tenants of the market complex have taken it upon themselves to ensure that hygiene is maintained. They have already instructed the pay toilet contractors to keep hand wash at basins and asked vendors to take individual responsibility to keep the toilet clean by not spitting, smoking or chewing tobacco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-municipal-market-complex-opens-after-six-weeks/articleshow/75611461.cms||Nida Sayed
May 8, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally rises to 675, three die at SN Medical College||AGRA: At least eight more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 675. Also, three Covid-19 positive patients died at SN Medical College. A 50-year-old local journalist succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. According to DM Agra Prabhu N Singh, “The victim tested corona positive on May 3.” They included a 11-year-old jaundice patient, resident of Tedi Bagiya locality, and a 65-year-old woman of Sikandar locality who was a kidney patient. Besides, a 63-year-old, resident of Kamla Nagar locality, who died on May 2 was found positive. The new cases which surfaced on Thursday included a 28-year-old resident of Dauki village who had returned to Agra from Delhi, a 32-year-old man of Tajganj locality, a pregnant woman admitted at the SN Medical College, and a 46-year-old businessman of Jagdishpura locality. The remaining cases are related to Lohamandi, Baluganj, Awas Vikas Colony, Jeevani Mandi, Ashok Nagar, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi and Panchkuiyan locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, out of the 675 cases in Agra, at least 90 cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts while 80 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts while 26 are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. So far, 28 vegetable sellers have been tested positive in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 296 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. At present, we have 42 active hotspots in the city. These are being closely monitored."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-rises-to-675-three-die-at-sn-medical-college/articleshow/75611802.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Despite government orders, liquor vends remain closed in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Even as Punjab government had allowed opening of liquor shops and home delivery of the liquor bottles, the vend owners decided not to open their shops and sought change in revenue policy. This has disappointed the booze lovers as they were waiting for the opening of liquor vends. Parik Sharma, a resident from Gill road, said that though government had asked them to open vends, they decided not to open the shops as government didn’t give them relief in the revenue policy which will pose a lot of problems to the liquor vendors in future. He added that they have to give Rs 1.5-2 lakhs revenue per day, but there is not much scope for sale. Sharma further said, "As the workers are leaving the city, there is not much scope for sale for country-made liquor, so it is difficult to get revenue. He indicated that government feels that things will turn like Delhi, where large number of booze lovers turned to buy liquor, but it may not turn that way in the state and sale is expected to be less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-government-orders-liquor-vends-remain-closed-in-ludhiana/articleshow/75612074.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 8, 2020||Agra||300 labourers on foot for days from Rajasthan rescued in Agra||AGRA: Amid the Shramik special train service started by the Centre in coordination with states, there are still hundreds of labourers who are travelling on foot for thousands of km in a desperate attempt to reach home. On Thursday, around 350 migrant labourers along with their families were rescued by Agra district administration after they were found walking towards their home states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other districts of UP along the highway. Some were carrying their little children and walking for days without proper food and water during the Covid-19 lockdown. Coming from Jaipur, Alwar and other parts of Rajasthan, the labourers were halted at Agra-Firozabad border by Tundla police, triggering a panic among the distressed labourers, who held a brief protest by blocking the highway. However, a prompt response from Agra district administration, calmed them down. Later, all were drove to the quarantine centres in Etmadpur and Itmad-ud-daula of Agra in UP roadways buses. Aziz Ahmad, 26, a migrant labourer who worked at a private firm in Jaipur said, “We have been walking for the past three days without proper food and water. We just want to reach our home now.” While Seema, carrying her 11-month-old son in her arms, said, “The company in which we were working has been shut down for more than 40 days. The landlord was treating us inhumanely and forced us to vacate the rented accommodation, leaving us with no option, but to walk towards home.” Sonu Kumar who walked from Alwar and joined the group in Agra said, “I’m disappointed by our Bihar government. They have done nothing for us to take us home. The administration here has at least arranged buses for us.” Superintendent of police (rural west) Ravi Kumar told TOI, “The migrant labourers were stopped by Firozabad administration on the highway, after which we brought all of them to our quarantine centres. There are 129 labourers of UP, 122 of Bihar, 58 from Jharkhand and 14 from West Bengal. All of them will be screened for Covid-19 infection, after which we will first release the UP labourers in the state roadways bus, while for migrants of other states, we will contact their respective governments to make arrangements.” He also said, “Till Thursday, we have shifted over 1,500 migrant labourers to our quarantine centres and shelters homes in Agra district, such as in Fatehpur Sikri, Itmad-ud-daula and Etmadpur. Food, water and other necessary items are being provided.” However, when asked why so many labourers were being allowed to enter Agra, the SP added, “Since our Agra district share porous borders with Dholpur, Morena, Mathura, migrant labourers are using farmlands and other routes to walk into Agra, but at the end they are stopped near NH-2 while heading towards Bihar, Bengal and other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/300-labourers-on-foot-for-days-from-rajasthan-rescued-in-agra/articleshow/75612271.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Church appeals for steps to prevent recurrence of gas leak||PANAJI: The Catholic Bishops' Conference of India (CBCI) has appealed to civil authorities to make every effort to find the cause of the gas leak in Visakhapatnam, take steps to prevent its recurrence anywhere and provide assistance to those affected. "Caritas India has already been in touch with the local authorities to see how we can help. We are aware that this incident has put pressure in those already stressed by the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Our prayers are with them for strength and courage," president of CBCI and Archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias stated in a press statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/church-in-goa-appeals-for-steps-to-prevent-recurrence-of-gas-leak/articleshow/75612504.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Govt bid to revive tourism through roadshows after lockdown||BHUBANESWAR: The state government is gearing up to revive the Covid-hit tourism sector and has planned to hold roadshows across the country after the lockdown is lifted to woo domestic travellers. Senior officials, including chief secretary Asit Tripathy and tourism secretary Vishal Dev, on Thursday discussed strategies to bring the tourism sector back on track. The sector, which was already reeling from the onslaught of Cyclone Fani in May last year, has received a body blow in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is yet to estimate the financial loss incurred by this sector in the state. Keeping in mind the alarming Covid-19 situation across the world, Tripathy laid stress on the revival of domestic tourism in the first phase. The chief secretary directed the tourism department to float packages for promoting intra-state tourism and woo private investments in the hospitality and tourism sector. “Once the situation improves and the lockdown is lifted, we expect to organise roadshows after July in major cities of the neighbouring states and in tier-II cities across the country to attract domestic tourists. Itineraries for the road trips from destinations like Kolkata, Ranchi, Visakhapatnam, Raipur, Bilaspur, Durg-Bhilai, Jamshedpur and Bokaro are being developed. We will focus on resurrecting international tourism after assessing the Covid-19 situation later,” Dev said. The tourism secretary said a special campaign will be taken up to promote state tourism through Odia cuisine and organizing Odia food festivals across six metros along with roadshows. In the meeting, the officials decided to improve infrastructure at the Rambha and Satpada clusters in Chilika Lake, the Bhitarkanika National Park, ensure the Chandrabhaga beachfront and Talsari beachfront developments. “We will form a taskforce to assess the impact of Covid-19 on Odisha tourism involving key stakeholders from hotels, restaurants, resorts, tour operators, adventure sports, home-stays and boat operators. After the lockdown is lifted, we plan to liaison with financial institutions for all possible support to the affected industry players,” Dev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-govt-bid-to-revive-tourism-through-roadshows-after-lockdown/articleshow/75612583.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Spike in Covid cases worsens doubling rate to 10.2 days||NEW DELHI: India's doubling rate for Covid-19 cases worsened to 10.2 days over the last seven days with cases increasing rapidly in states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi though there is better news on the improving recovery rate and the fatality rate at the national level at 3.3%, health ministry data show. This is a change from Tuesday when the health ministry had reported a doubling time of 12 days, the same day which saw the highest jump in cases and deaths. The fall in doubling time comes after several weeks of steady improvement. The deterioration of the doubling rate is attributed, at least in part, to reporting gaps in certain states, such as West Bengal, which are now being corrected. Lockdown 3.0: Latest updates“Compared to the rest of the world, India’s fatality rate is lowest,” health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, pointing to efforts to ensure timely reporting and efficient clinical management in combating Covid-19. The data also shows the disease in India to be of less in severity with just 1.1% of all Covid-19 patients on ventilators, 3.3% on medical oxygen and 4.8% in ICU beds. India’s testing capacity has also increased to 95,000 per day from around 75,000 daily at the beginning of the week. This is spread out in 327 government laboratories and 118 private laboratories. Cumulatively, over 13.57 lakh tests have been done so far. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news As on Thursday, the health ministry reported a total of 52,952 Covid-19 cases. Of this, 15,266 persons have been cured and 1,783 deaths reported. In the last 24 hours, 3,561 new confirmed cases have been added and 1,084 patients cured. The current recovery rate is 28.8%. Flagging challenges in combating Covid-19 at a time when the disease graph has been gradually peaking instead of regressing as the government had hoped amid the lockdown, Harsh Vardhan said the challenge was to prevent the disease from making its way to unaffected districts. There are currently 319 unaffected districts in the green zone, 130 red districts and 284 orange ones. However, more and more districts, the minister said, were now managing to prolong the period of reporting of new infections, with 180 districts having no case between seven and 13 days; 164 districts with no case between 14 and 20 days; and 136 districts with no case from 21 to 28 days. Watch Covid-19: Spike in coronavirus cases worsens doubling rate to 10.2 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-doubling-time-worsens-to-10-2-days-in-1-week/articleshow/75612580.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 8, 2020||Gaya||Gaya: DM asks hotels to allow paid quarantine of returnees||GAYA: The Gaya district administration has asked hoteliers and representatives of foreign monasteries to accommodate stranded persons returning from foreign countries for three weeks quarantine period on payment basis. Deliberations in this regard were held in a meeting convened by Gaya DM Abhishek Singh with hoteliers and representatives of foreign monasteries on Wednesday evening. Earlier in the day, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote a letter regarding return of stranded Indian nationals from foreign countries to the chief secretaries of all states, including chief secretary Deepak Kumar. The Union home secretary’s letter state that the state government will have to arrange facilities for the mandatory institutional quarantine of stranded Indian nationals being brought back to the country. The letter also said that standard operating procedure (SoP) for the movement of stranded Indian nationals has already been notified on May 5 and it has to be strictly followed. According to Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, an estimated 8000 people from Bihar are stranded in Middle East countries, including UAE. “Besides those from Gaya district, residents of smaller districts will be also quarantined in Bodh Gaya,” he said. “Transit facility for all incoming international travellers has to be provided by the Gaya district administration. The modalities are being worked out,” the DM said. According to a press statement issued by NK Gupta, deputy director, public relations department, Gaya, the list made available by hotels and monasteries states that 1,860 rooms are available in different hotels to accommodate the quarantined people. Besides the hotel rooms, about 1000 rooms are also available in different monasteries. There are about 50 foreign monasteries in Bodh Gaya. “Quarantined people will have to pay for the hospitality offered to them. They will remain under institutional quarantine for 21 days,” the DM added. The press statement also stated that the DM asked the hotel owners and monastery managers to charge only a reasonable amount from the quarantined people as many of them, being migrant workers are not very well off. Though the flight schedule is yet to be officially announced, the first flight is likely to arrive on May 11. Meanwhile, another group of more than 100 stranded Thai nationals is expected to be flown out by a special flight from Gaya. The Thai authorities have sought permission of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to operate the special flight. Earlier, on April 25, altogether 342 Thai nationals were flown out in two special flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gaya/gaya-dm-asks-hotels-to-allow-paid-quarantine-of-returnees/articleshow/75612854.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 8, 2020||India||Coronavirus: India cases 3k-plus 2 days in a row, Delhi at new high||NEW DELHI: States across India reported over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases for the second day running as the country’s corona count raced past 55,000 on Thursday, taking just four days to reach that number after crossing 40,000 on May 3. While Maharashtra recorded over 1,200 fresh cases on Thursday, again for the second straight day, the infection touched a new high in Delhi, where 448 more cases emerged. The capital’s previous single-day peak was 428 on Tuesday. Maharashtra also reported its highest single-day death toll of 43, a lion’s share of the 106 fatalities across the country, with Mumbai alone adding 25. This is the second time that more than 100 Covid-19 patients have died in India in a day. Adding some cheer amid the gloom, the number of recoveries across India has been going up steadily. As per the latest data, more than 16,600 people have recovered from Covid-19 across the country which is nearly 30% of the total cases so far. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 infection continued to surge in Tamil Nadu and Gujarat as well, with the two states reporting 580 and 388 new cases, respectively, adding to fears that the disease was leaping towards its peak in these states. The coronavirus count in Gujarat, the second-most affected state, crossed 7,000 on Thursday. With 29 deaths in 24 hours, the infection has so far claimed 415 lives in the state, the second highest after Maharashtra’s 694. In Telangana, too, three migrant workers tested positive among 15 new cases. The state has recorded total 1,122 positive cases of Covid-19 so far. In Andhra Pradesh, two persons died and 56 others tested positive for Covid-19, taking the caseload to 1,833. Krishna and Kurnool districts in the state witnessed one Covid-19 related death each, taking the cumulative toll to 36. Bihar recorded its fifth Covid-19 fatality with the death of a 70-year-old man. The state also recorded eight new cases, taking the total tally to 550. Rajasthan recorded 110 new cases, including 21 from Jaipur, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 3427 and death toll to 99. In Kerala, no new Covid-19 cases were reported for the second consecutive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-cases-3k-plus-2-days-in-a-row-delhi-at-new-high/articleshow/75612779.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Apply online for permission to open shops selling non-essential goods||PUNE: The traders in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have to apply online for obtaining permission to open shops selling non-essential commodities. A senior civic official said the application form is available on the municipal website: www.pcmcindia.gov.in. The traders must fill and submit these forms online. The municipal commissioner has given relaxation for opening shops in non-containment zones. Shopping complexes and malls and commercial complexes continue to remain closed. The civic administration has provided relaxation in opening of shops selling non-essential commodities in the non-containment zones in the city. Individual shops other than those of essential commodities are allowed to remain open. But if there are more than five such shops then they will have to seek permission for opening them. The civic official said that a committee has been formed in each of the eight zonal offices of the city. It will scrutinise the forms and give permission. It will allow the shops to remain open on alternate days, once a week, twice a week or thrice a week depending on the shops located in that area on that road. Priority will be given to sweet shops, bakeries and those selling hardware, electric, optical, clothes of small children, electronics and mobile phones and garages. The shopkeepers will have to attach documents of property tax payment receipt, aadhaar card. They will also have to give information of their employees. This application form has to be emailed to the zonal office of the zone in which the shop is located.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-apply-online-for-permission-to-open-shops-selling-non-essential-goods/articleshow/75612961.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 8, 2020||India||Managing hotspots is key to ‘blunted peak’: AIIMS director||NEW DELHI: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Thursday that if the Covid-19 hotspots are managed properly, India may witness a ‘blunted peak’. “It means that we will not have huge spike as has been witnessed in the West. The peak may be more flat with cases subsequently coming down over the next few weeks,” Dr Guleria said. The US and the UK, where new Covid-19 cases are on the decline, had witnessed sharp spike with over 10,000 cases being reported daily. India has so far witnessed maximum 3,600 new cases in a single day. The AIIMS director said aggressive action in hotspots and community participation can help limit the rise in cases to 3,000 to 4,000 only. “There have been many predictions based on mathematical modelling. Some of them suggested the peak might come by April-end. They were proved wrong. Some studies suggested the peak would come in May. It seems highly unlikely now. Similarly, some studies suggested peak could occur in June-July. I don’t know if that would prove to be true either,” he added. According to Dr Guleria, modelling data to predict the peak of Covid-19 often doesn’t take variables into considerations. “Due to the lockdown, the growth in number of Covid-19 cases has been slow. Also, most new cases are being recorded from hotspots. If they are managed properly, we may see a blunted peak,” the AIIMS director told TOI. He was clarifying his remarks to a news agency that seemed to suggest that the peak could come in June and July in India leading to concern among public. It was one of the most trending topics on social media as well. Dr Guleria said the number of Covid-19 patients requiring ICU support in India is approximately one per cent of all cases, which is very low. “Somehow we are fighting the disease in a much better way compared with the affected population in other countries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/managing-hotspots-is-key-to-blunted-peak-aiims-director/articleshow/75612949.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: School education department advises teachers to stay in touch with students' parents to make online classes a success||BHOPAL: In a webinar organised by the school education department of Madhya Pradesh, principal secretary and commissioner education instructed the district education officers, district programme coordinators, school principals and teachers to talk to the parents of the students to ensure all students are able to study online through the DigiLEP (Digital Learning Enhancement Programme) application during the lockdown. Around seven thousand members of the school education department from various districts participated in the webinar on May 7. Principal secretary of school education department Rashmi Shami told the DEOs and DPCs to ensure smooth functioning of online classes, making study material available to school principals as well as teachers so that they can pass it on to the students. Commissioner, directorate of public instruction, Jaishri Kiyawat further advised the teachers to keep parents updated about the online classes to ensure students take them seriously. "The teachers have been asked to call five students' parents every day to ensure that parents are aware about the online classes and ask them to allow their children to use their phones to study during that hour. This will also ensure better attendance in online classes," said Kiyawat. Tips to make the digital training of teachers through the 'rise' programme were also discussed through the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-school-education-department-advises-teachers-to-stay-in-touch-with-students-parents-to-make-online-classes-a-success/articleshow/75613120.cms||Shuchita Jha
May 8, 2020||Goa||Goa likely to escape heatwave next week||PANAJI: India Meteorological Department (IMD), Goa, has said the state may be spared of the phenomenon and may only face a slight increase in temperature. As such, scientists said the maximum temperature during this week will be between 35 degree Celsius and 36 degree Celsius and the minimum will be 27-28 degree Celsius. Temperatures are likely to peak between 11am and 3pm. IMD-Goa said this may not necessarily meet the meteorological criteria for declaration of a heatwave as it needs to cross 37 degree Celsius. Respite is likely, too, as weather forecasters predict light rain on May 10 and 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-likely-to-escape-heatwave-next-week/articleshow/75613236.cms||Nida Sayed
May 8, 2020||India||5,200 rail coaches ready as Covid care centres||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has kept 5,231 coaches ready to be used as Covid care centres across the country to meet demand as cases of infection increased significantly in the past few days. These coaches can be deployed across 23 states in the country and in major cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Nagpur, Pune and Lucknow. The national transporter will provide healthcare facilities in 85 stations. In another 130 stations, states can request Covid care coaches only if they agree to provide staff and essential medicines. The railways has deployed over 2,500 doctors and 35,000 paramedic staff to meet the Covid-19 challenge. “The coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid care centres as per guidelines issued by the health ministry. These coaches can be used in areas where state has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed Covid cases,” a railway ministry spokesperson said. The health ministry on Wednesday said that train coaches will be turned into Covid care centres and parked at 215 stations as part of the preparation for a sudden spurt in cases. According to the ministry, 158 stations are ready with watering and charging facility and the remaining 57 stations are ready with watering facility for these centres. The 23 states where these coaches can be parked and used for Covid care include Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. While a maximum of 26 stations have been identified in UP where these coaches can be deployed, Maharashtra has 21 such stations followed by 19 in Rajasthan and 18 in West Bengal. Bihar has 16 such stations followed by 15 in MP and 14 in MP. The ministry officials said as per health ministry guidelines state governments would send the requisition to railways. “Railways will make allocation of these coaches to the state or UTs. After allocation by railways, the train shall be placed, at required station with necessary infrastructure, and will be handed over to district collector or magistrate or their authorised person,” the official said. The railways will provide items in each coach, including oxygen cylinders, and take care of their maintenance. The catering arrangements will be done by IRCTC and the Railway Police Force (RPF) will take care of the security aspect. Watch Railways readies 5200 coaches as Covid care centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5200-rail-coaches-ready-as-covid-care-centres/articleshow/75613194.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Exodus will cripple real estate sector: Goa minister Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Echoing concerns of the real estate industry, ports minister Michael Lobo urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to convince migrant labourers involved in construction work to stay back as their exodus could cripple economic activities. Lobo along with members of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) met the chief minister on Thursday in this regard. “If 50% of the labour force moves out of Goa, then all construction activities will come to a standstill,” he said.The minister also said that work on many houses is pending, while builders have to complete projects so that they can handover flats to customers. “Construction activities have already been delayed due to Covid-19, and these have to restart now. For this, we need carpenters, masons, skilled and unskilled labour to be here to complete these works. We have requested Sawant to send a message to the labour force that the state wants them to stay in Goa and that the government is there to help them,” Lobo said. Of the 3.5 lakh migrant workers in the state, nearly 80,000 have already registered themselves with the authorities seeking permission to return home.Lobo said that labourers working in shacks, hotels, restaurants, etc, have no option but to proceed to their native states due to unemployment. “Out of 1 lakh labourers, if 20,000 of them leave then it will not have any impact, but if 70% of them decide to go then the state will come to a standstill and economic activities will grind to a halt,” he said. On Wednesday, Sawant said that the state requires manpower, and that the government is trying to convince the workers to stay back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exodus-will-cripple-real-estate-sector-goa-minister-michael-lobo/articleshow/75613382.cms||Murari Shetye
May 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Youth Akali Dal distributes milk in protest outside liquor vends||LUDHIANA: In protest against the decision of the Congress government to open liquor vends during lockdown, Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha distributed milk for free outside liquor vends on Thursday. He claimed that Punjab was known for milk and milk products but the Congress government was worried about its financial losses and in these times the government had decided to open liquor vends when people do not have money to buy food. Gosha said people do not have jobs in the lockdown, especially daily wagers, and they were dependent upon the administration for grocery and other daily need items and instead of providing them help, the government had opened liquor vends to earn revenue. He said this was the time when the government should announce relief package, waive electricity bills and school fee, but it has decided to open liquor vends. The people don’t have money to buy food, so how can they buy liquor. The sale of liquor will also lead to increase in cases of domestic violence, he added. Gosha said they were distributing milk for free to needy to protest against the decision of the government. He also reminded Amarinder Singh of his promise to end the drug menace in Punjab in four weeks. He said lockdown was the time that drug addicts should be treated at de-addiction centres but the government was opening liquor vends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-youth-akali-dal-distributes-milk-in-protest-outside-liquor-vends/articleshow/75613398.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Syllabus to be pared for shortened academic year in Karnataka||MANGALURU: Although both the state and central governments have relaxed restrictions of the lockdown primarily to steer the economy back on track, the rising number of Covid-19 cases across Karnataka is likely to further delay reopening of schools and colleges for the 2020-21 academic year. Karnataka primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar pointed out that the government had taken note of the circumstances, and hinted at the possibility of truncating the academic year. Such a proposition, the minister said, would entail paring the syllabus down in proportion to the reduced number of teaching hours. The department of public instruction (DPI) is mulling over reducing the portions for the upcoming academic year. The minister, participating in a meeting attended by senior DPI officials, directed them to identify lessons and units in textbooks for classes from I to X that can be removed. He said that additional portions from I and II PU too must be removed in order to ensure that students do not have to cram too much in the limited time they are to be left with. Suresh Kumar asked the officials to prepare a detailed report on the proposal. “The amount of syllabus pared must be proportional to the teaching hours lost owing to the pandemic. The syllabus must include a component on Covid-19 for students of all classes and the changes it has wrought on society,” he said. However, the minister said that the Covid-19 component must be framed in such a manner that is appropriate to the age of students. He further added that the component must be added in the syllabus at the Teachers’ Training Institute. “Covid-19 will be an integral component in the academic syllabus going forward. The DPI will leverage its Makkalvani YouTube channel as an alternative learning tool and lessons for classes I to X will be developed. Subject wise experts will develop content which will serve as reference for teachers and students in future,” Suresh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/syllabus-to-be-pared-for-shortened-academic-year-in-karnataka/articleshow/75613479.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 8, 2020||Surat||Surat: 41 migrants arrested for violence in Pali||SACHIN: The uncertainties over their return to native states has left the temper of migrants frayed. On Wednesday night, migrants in DM Nagar of Pali locality in Sachin GIDC pelted stones at the police team and broke the barricades. Around 41 were arrested and bandobast was tightened in the area. The workers were upset as police strictly enforced lockdown rules inside the containment zone and did not allow residents to go out. Majority of the labourers involved area are from Bihar. In Bhestan, a group of around 50 migrant workers from Odisha staged protest near Sidhharth Nagar and burnt bicycle tyres on the road claiming that their train tickets did not get booked while some other people who applied later got the tickets first. The workers were also complaining that they are not getting food for the last two days. Police reached the spot and dispersed the crowd. The workers claimed that they have paid over Rs 1 lakh for a group to book tickets but now they are not getting the tickets. On Thursday evening too, nearly 1,000 migrants from Jharkhand gathered in Godadara after a message of train tickets to their native state being issued went viral. The crowd gathered near office of one Rajesh Varma who has been collecting money from the migrants to book tickets on their behalf. "Some miscreants shared the message that tickets are being issued in Godadara after which people gathered. There was no violence though," said a police officer in Limbayat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/41-migrants-arrested-for-violence-in-pali/articleshow/75610574.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Second gaur moving towards its natural habitat: Forest department officials||MANGALURU: The second gaur, that had taken refuge in a puddle on the banks of Phalguni river near Kulur bridge last evening, moved from there in the early hours on Thursday. On Thursday evening, it entered a vast wooded area abutting Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers and KISCO Ltd on the road leading towards MSEZ. Forest officials and KISCO guards are keeping a close watch on the animal. District forest officer V Karikalan told TOI that the gaur moved out from the puddle around 2am and started moving towards the MSEZ area via the road abutting the river. The area has been barricaded to ensure that it does not head back to the city. Hoping that the gaur uses a natural exit point in the compounded area of the two industries to move towards Thokur, Karikalan said animal experts and veterinarians are banking on the animal’s natural instinct to guide it back to its natural habitat, which could be Thokur, Bajpe or Badaga Yekkar. “We do not want to force it to any area that is not a natural habitat as it would put it to stress,” he said. Saying that the gaur is calm with no human activity around it, Karikalan said the fact that it is grazing is a good sign (of it not facing any pressure). It may not need any intervention from the department officials in terms of tranquilising it, the action opted for the first gaur that strayed into the city on Tuesday. “It is unfortunate that the (first) gaur subsequently succumbed to capture myopathy,” Karikalan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/second-gaur-moving-towards-its-natural-habitat-forest-department-officials/articleshow/75610195.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Food companies miss Ramzan demand in lockdown||MUMBAI: A subdued Ramzan this year due to the lockdown is proving to be a lost marketing opportunity for several packaged foods companies. Branded products in falooda mixes, Bombay halwa, phirni and certain instant curry masalas drew a significant chunk of their sales during Ramzan. Sales of these products for some companies are only half of what was clocked in the same period during Ramzan last year. Gits Food Products director (sales & marketing) Sahil Gilani said some of the company’s dessert instant mixes such as falooda, kheer, phirni and Bombay halwa do over 50% of their annual sales during Ramzan. Additionally, the Gits gulab jamun mix sees a monthly surge of 25% in specific regions during this season. “While the demand remained high, we unfortunately weren’t able to push the products into the market due to major supply disruptions on account of the lockdown,” said Gilani. “Gits Gulab Jamun mix had a higher pipeline stock as it’s a big seller all year round, so we managed growth on that,” added Gilani. During Ramzan, which coincides with the summer season, 50% of Rasna’s drink mixes were consumed outdoors. “It’s made and sold on the streets. That’s certainly a lost opportunity for us,” said Rasna CMD Piruz Khambatta. Mother’s Recipe (Desai Foods) executive director Sanjana Desai said the company gets good sales from the paste category (ginger-garlic paste, garlic and ginger pastes) in the domestic market during Ramzan. “In fact, the bigger SKUs (stock-keeping units), that is 300gm and above, usually witness huge demand and an exponential sales jump. Even products such as seviyan kheer (payasam), an instant mix product, would be in high demand along with garlic pickle and sweet pickle,” said Desai. Apart from a surge in demand across all key categories like pickle, papad and pastes, Desai Foods was anticipating strong incremental business this year from the newly introduced range of chutneys, an accompaniment to samosas and snacks during the festive season. “But unfortunately, there were issues with supply and fulfilment during the lockdown,” said Desai. Even in the international markets, its Madras Curry Powder, accompanied by ginger-garlic paste and garlic paste, see huge demand. “Every year we see The sales projections of these products rise between 50% and 100% during Ramzan,” said Desai. Much of the company’s consumption would have increased due to the large-scale sampling that it used to do in areas with huge gatherings during the Ramzan period. None of this is now possible. “At present, sales are coming from filling the general shortages of essential food items and through hyper local delivery and other sources of supply that we have created to service the markets to ensure our products are available to our consumers,” said Desai.The industry is now pinning its hopes on the festive season that will commence in August and extend up to Diwali, to make up for the lost opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-cos-miss-ramzan-demand-in-lockdown/articleshow/75610614.cms||Namrata Singh
May 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Absentee doctors yet to respond to notices||PATNA: Though two days have passed since the state health department issued show-cause notices to 362 absentee doctors, more than 85% of them have not come up with any explanation yet. The doctors were showcaused for skipping duty in these challenging times when the government is on its toes to fight Covid-19. The doctors were also warned of action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Notices were issued to 31 doctors from Nawada, 27 from Jehanabad, 26 from East Champaran, 25 from Patna and 24 from Rohtas among others. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the department has received reply from only around 15% absentee doctors. “We will take appropriate action so that the health workers refrain from skipping duty,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey said the state government has utmost respect for corona warriors. “We talked to the doctors and it was felt that there was a need to make them aware of the rules, hence we issued show-cause notices to them,” Pandey said. Motihari CS gets notice: East Champaran DM Shirsat Kapil Ashok on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to civil surgeon (CS) Dr Rizawan Ahamad along with district programme officer of Motihari Sadar Hospital and its hospital manager, holding them responsible for negligence in allowing further spread of coronavirus. The action was initiated after four covid-19 suspects, who had come to give sample for test on April 30, were allowed to go home before the results came in. Later, all four were found to be positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/absentee-docs-yet-to-respond-to-notices/articleshow/75608693.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar gears up to screen all returnees from abroad||PATNA: The state government is gearing up to facilitate the arrival of state residents stranded abroad, including in the Middle-East, after the Centre on Thursday kicked off the evacuation exercise to bring back Indian stranded due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Vipin Kumar, resident commissioner of Bihar in Delhi, told TOI on Thursday that in the first round, people primarily belonging to the southern states will arrive on May 8 on special flights. As many as 64 flights will take off starting from Thursday to international destinations. The flights will be operated by two airlines till May 13. Ten flights have already left the Delhi airport for various global destinations. “Once I am informed by the official concerned about the arrival of Biharis in Delhi, then with the coordination of the ministry of external affairs, we would plan and send the people to Bihar. Depending on the number of people, we would think whether to send them via flight or train,” Vipin said. Meanwhile, Gaya DM is making arrangements for the migrants coming from Gulf countries. The Gaya airport has put in place precautionary measures for the migrants’ arrival in the coming week. Dilip Kumar, the Gaya airport director, said thermal scanners and strict health protocols were in place at the airport to screen each passenger. “The state health department would depute a team of doctors for health check-up of passengers. The migrants will likely reach Gaya via Delhi or Mumbai,” he said. He added: “The passengers have to download the Arogya Setu mobile app and if it shows green signal then only they would be allowed to board the flight for Gaya. Social distancing would be maintained at each counter and there would be marking for passengers to follow.” State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, informed that the samples of migrants coming from abroad would be collected by the health officials for testing, whereas they would complete the 21-day quarantine at the block-level centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-gears-up-to-screen-all-returnees-from-abroad/articleshow/75609251.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 8, 2020||Patna||Many electronics shops defy DM’s order in Patna||PATNA: A day after the state home department issued an order allowing certain categories of shops to reopen, some electronics, electrical and vehicle spare parts shops reopened in the city on Thursday. The electronics and automobile spare parts shops, however, opened in violation of an order issued by the Patna district administration, which had allowed these shops to do business only on three selected days a week. The district administration had issued an order on Wednesday, allowing electronics and hardware shops, shops selling construction materials, vehicle spare parts shops, pollution-under-control centres and high security registration plate shops to open only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between 6am and 6pm. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said only shops registered under the Bihar Shops and Establishment Act, 1953 were allowed to reopen. “The unregistered shops or roadside shops are not allowed to open during the lockdown period. The relaxation is only for the registered shops. Such shops, if running in supermarkets or malls, will not be permitted to reopen,” he said. The DM asked the officials concerned to ensure that these shops open only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Meanwhile, the shops which reopened after 45 days, failed to attract customers. Mohd Riyaz, a computer shop owner on S P Verma Road, said he was unaware of the administration’s directive that such shops are allowed to open only on three days. “I opened the shop in the morning and waited for customers. However, none visited the shop. Only some hardware and software shops reopened in the area. However, all the shopkeepers downed their shutters after a few hours,” Riyaz said. Manoranjan, who owns an automobile spare parts shop on Exhibition Road, said, “I opened the shop in the morning. However, as policemen told me that we are allowed to do business only on three days a week, I closed the shop immediately.” Sujeet Kumar, owner of a computer shop near Maurya Lok Complex, said, “Some customers reached the shop and enquired about laptops, SMPs and motherboard. We asked them to come on Friday to buy these items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-electronics-shops-defy-dms-order/articleshow/75609221.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 8, 2020||Business||Rs 5.7L cr PSB loans in March-April: FM||Public sector banks have sanctioned loans worth Rs 5.7 lakh crore for nearly 42 lakh accounts during March-April 2020. Announcing this in a tweet, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, “These borrowers are from medium and small enterprises, retail, agriculture & corporate sectors, waiting for disbursal soon after lockdown lifts. Economy poised to recover!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-5-7l-cr-psb-loans-in-march-april-fm/articleshow/75610677.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||67 Jamaatis still languishing in jails||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic is taking its toll on the 67 foreign nationals owing allegiance to Tablighi Jamaat. Accused of violating their visa rules, these foreigners, mostly from Malaysia, Indonesia and Bangladesh are eagerly waiting for court proceedings to resume. Authoritative sources said altogether 11 foreign nationals—seven from Indonesia and four from Malaysia—who were earlier arrested from a mosque in Buxar district, have already moved their bail applications. However, their bail petitions couldn’t be taken up as court proceedings have been suspended due to the lockdown. Buxar Central Jail superintendent Vijay Kumar Arora on Thursday said, “The wakalatnama of all the 11 foreigner prisoners were sent to their legal counsel after completing the formalities last month. What happened later is not known to me. The foreign prisoners have been lodged in a separate ward and are not being allowed to mingle with other prisoners.” In all, 67 prisoners have been lodged in jails of Patna, Buxar, Araria, Kishanganj and Samastipur districts. Among them, 21 were from Malaysia, 18 from Bangladesh, 17 from Indonesia, nine from Kyrgyzstan and two from Kazakhstan, respectively. They all were booked on charges of violating visa norms under Foreigners’ Act 1946. Beur jail superintendent Jawahar Lal Prakhakar said, “Of the 17 foreign nationals, nine are from Kyrgzstan, seven from Malaysia and one from Kazakhstan. We are keeping a strict vigil on all the 17 foreign prisoners having links with Tiblighi Jamaat. They have kept in a separate ward and security around them has been tightened.” The prison department officials said that none of them were tested positive for coronavirus. “Their medical examination was conducted before being sent to judicial custody, which found them negative. In prisons also, their medical tests confirmed that they were not infected with the deadly virus,” a senior jail department officer said. A senior lawyer of the Patna high court Dinesh Kumar said that the accused may be awarded five years imprisonment for violation of visa rules, if held guilty by the court. “As I have come to know from media reports that they have been found to be involved in promoting religious activities while being in the country on tourist visas,” he said. Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said that altogether 11 foreign nationals—10 from Indonesia and one from Malaysia—were arrested from Kishanganj, which is close to the Nepal border and not far off from the country’s boundary with Bangladesh. Eleven Bangladeshi nationals were arrested from Samastipur followed by 18 foreigners—nine each from Bangladesh and Malaysia in Araria district. Initially, they all were kept in 14-day quarantine before being sent to judicial custody. A senior IPS officer said, “The foreign tourists are supposed to inform the local police about their stay, which these Jamaatis didn’t follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/67-jamaatis-still-languishing-in-jails/articleshow/75608611.cms||Ramashankar
May 8, 2020||Patna||Procure TrueNat machines for speedy coronavirus test: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday ordered expeditious procurement of TrueNat machines and their installation in all district hospitals for speedy coronavirus test results. The machine yields the result in less than an hour if it is negative, and in the case of positive case, it requires cross-checking with the other method. The CM, who held a meeting to review measures being taken for containment of coronavirus outbreak, said the arrangements should be made to give proper training to the personnel involved in conducting the test through the TrueNat machine. The CM also ordered that the required arrangements be made for the start of random testing for coronavirus infection in all the 38 districts. The CM said that the twin measures would help not only in the containment of the coronavirus spread, but also build the confidence and faith of the people in the system. The CM asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure that the holding capacities of the block and panchayat level quarantine centres are increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/procure-truenat-machines-cm/articleshow/75608667.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Glaxo sells 5.7% in HUL for Rs 25,500 crore||Mumbai: Global healthcare major GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) on Thursday said it has sold its 5.7% stake in FMCG major Hindustan Unilever (HUL) for nearly Rs 25,500 crore. The deal, the biggest such transaction in India’s stock market, was done at an average price of Rs 1,905 per share, the exchange’s block deal data showed. GSK, which was holding nearly 13.4 crore HUL shares through its subsidiaries GlaxoSmithKline Pte and Horlicks, sold the stake via several block deals on the NSE. In Thursday’s relatively weak market, HUL shares closed 1.3% lower at Rs 1,985. Among the buyers in the block deal, was French financial services major Societe Generale, that picked up 1.3 crore shares for about Rs 2,450 crore. The names of other buyers in the block deal were not disclosed. Current stock market rules require that the names of only those buyers buying at least 0.5% of a company’s stake through a block deal should be disclosed after the close of the session’s trading. “Following settlement of the sale, GSK will no longer hold any HUL shares,” a release from HSBC, one of the managers of the block deal, said. JP Morgan India and Morgan Stanley India were the other managers of the block deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glaxo-sells-5-7-in-hul-for-rs-25500-crore/articleshow/75610648.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Patna: Schools to say ‘no’ to gatherings||PATNA: Schools are not likely to be the same when they reopen after the lockdown ends. Most of them will not conduct morning assemblies, sports activities, cultural events, seminars and parent-teacher meets for several months in order to ensure social distancing norms. They are also planning to hold classes in shifts or on alternate days and make the use of masks mandatory for all during school hours. With over 3,000 students, classes will be conducted three times a week in two shifts — morning and afternoon — at Krishna Niketan. Its vice-chairman Coomar Arunodaya told this newspaper on Thursday, “On other days, we will continue with online classes. There will be no sickroom and in case, a kid shows Covid-19 symptoms, he will be sent home straightaway.” DAV Public School-Khagaul will make the use of masks mandatory for students, teachers as well as non-teaching staff after the lockdown ends. Principal R Roy said, “Classes will be held in rotation and separate lunch breaks announced to avoid social gatherings. There will also be no morning assembly, sports activities or cultural events.” Carmel High School is waiting for the government’s guidelines that educational institutes have to follow after the lockdown ends. Principal Sr M Serena AC pointed out, “We have, however, decided to reduce the number of students in each classroom from 60 to 30 and create space between all desks. Besides, no activities, involving large gatherings, will be organized.” Like Carmel, others are also waiting for the Centre’s decision on reopening of schools. They will prepare their schedules accordingly. No summer break in many schools: Several schools have cancelled the summer break so that they can continue holding online classes. Kendriya Vidyalaya-Danapur principal M S Ahmad said there would be no summer vacations this time. “The school is likely to reopen on June 20, after which all the students, teachers and non-teaching staff will go through thermal screening. They will also have to cover their faces and wash hands regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-to-say-no-to-gatherings/articleshow/75609110.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 8, 2020||Patna||DM asks hotels to allow paid quarantine of returnees||GAYA: The Gaya district administration has asked hoteliers and representatives of foreign monasteries to accommodate stranded persons returning from foreign countries for three weeks quarantine period on payment basis. Deliberations in this regard were held in a meeting convened by Gaya DM Abhishek Singh with hoteliers and representatives of foreign monasteries on Wednesday evening. Earlier in the day, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote a letter regarding return of stranded Indian nationals from foreign countries to the chief secretaries of all states, including chief secretary Deepak Kumar. The Union home secretary’s letter state that the state government will have to arrange facilities for the mandatory institutional quarantine of stranded Indian nationals being brought back to the country. The letter also said that standard operating procedure (SoP) for the movement of stranded Indian nationals has already been notified on May 5 and it has to be strictly followed. According to Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, an estimated 8000 people from Bihar are stranded in Middle East countries, including UAE. “Besides those from Gaya district, residents of smaller districts will be also quarantined in Bodh Gaya,” he said. “Transit facility for all incoming international travellers has to be provided by the Gaya district administration. The modalities are being worked out,” the DM said. According to a press statement issued by NK Gupta, deputy director, public relations department, Gaya, the list made available by hotels and monasteries states that 1,860 rooms are available in different hotels to accommodate the quarantined people. Besides the hotel rooms, about 1000 rooms are also available in different monasteries. There are about 50 foreign monasteries in Bodh Gaya. “Quarantined people will have to pay for the hospitality offered to them. They will remain under institutional quarantine for 21 days,” the DM added. The press statement also stated that the DM asked the hotel owners and monastery managers to charge only a reasonable amount from the quarantined people as many of them, being migrant workers are not very well off. Though the flight schedule is yet to be officially announced, the first flight is likely to arrive on May 11. Meanwhile, another group of more than 100 stranded Thai nationals is expected to be flown out by a special flight from Gaya. The Thai authorities have sought permission of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to operate the special flight. Earlier, on April 25, altogether 342 Thai nationals were flown out in two special flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-asks-hotels-to-allow-paid-quarantine-of-returnees/articleshow/75608632.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two SRP cops caught in inebriated condition||Ahmedabad: A brawl over liquor between two SRP (State Reserve Police) cops reached a police station when their superior caught them abusing each other in inebriated condition in Sector 27, Gandhinagar. Police inspector of Group-4 of SRP, V D Rajput states in his FIR with Sector-21 police of Gandhinagar that he was present in the office when he heard screams of the accused cops’ barracks. “When I went to barrack block number A/2, I found that constables Balwant Damor and Vinod Machhi were fighting and abusing each other in inebriated condition,” states Rajput in the FIR. Both the cops worked with Group-4 in Dahod and had been deployed in Gandhinagar for around two months. Inspector A J Chauhan of Sector 21 police said that both the constables, aged around 35, were arrested and later granted bail after conducting their medical test to ascertain that they were drunk. Both were booked under prohibition act and relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-srp-cops-caught-in-inebriated-condition/articleshow/75610876.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Non-essential shops reopen after 50 days, citizens & traders heave a sigh of relief||PUNE: Several shops selling non-essential items reopened in the city’s non-containment zones on Thursday after remaining closed for around 50 days. Traders across the city were among the first in the country to start downing the shutters since the outbreak of Covid-19 from the weekend beginning March 15. Since then, the traders in the city have suffered a loss of around Rs1,000 crore, said a senior representative of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune. On Wednesday, the civic administration issued a notice regarding reopening of the stores selling non-essential items. The notice provided the much-needed clarity to the traders on when and for how long they could keep their shops open. The notification allowed stores selling hardware, plumbing and construction items equipment, clothes and dairy products and garages to operate on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The result was visible on the ground, as several shops opened in areas such as Karve Road, Paud Road, Erandwane, Baner, Market Yard, Sinhagad Road, Kalyaninagar, Vishrantwadi and Bopodi either for the entire permitted duration or for a few hours. Even Aundh and Baner reported opening of a large number of stores selling non-essentials, including plants, plywood, plastic items, garments and sweets. “We had announced closure of the shops from March 17, before any other city had gone into lockdown. While some shops continued to function after March 17, they shut shop since March 22,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune. “We met the municipal commissioner on Thursday and held a discussion on various issues. We explained our concerns about the safety of the traders, consumers and the families. If some traders want to open their shops, we cannot stop them,” he said. The owner of a ceramics store at Erandwane said, “We got to know after the civic notification that we can open our unit on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. We will keep the store open on these days till further orders.” The owner of a shoe store near Deccan Gymkhana said the area has four such outlets. “We have kept the shops closed for over 45 days. The notification is a big relief for us. We can at least resume business.” A number of cellphone and gadget stores were seen open in parts of Kothrud, Karve Road and Erandwane. A shop owner said, “We maintained the social distancing. Many came for repairs, while some bought new gadgets.” Some areas in the non-containment zones continued to get only essentials  “We only got groceries and milk, that too only in the morning. Only a few medical stores were open,” said Malav Parekh, a resident of Salunke Vihar Road. Baner resident Sunita Patil said she could get her mixer-grinder fixed as a gadget repair shop reopened. The situation remained unchanged in Sahakarnagar and grocery shops and vegetable vendors were told to pack off by afternoon though the area was not in the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-essential-shops-reopen-after-50-days-citizens-traders-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75612563.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||‘Thirthahalli to get its own Agra Petha||MANGALURU/ SHIVAMOGGA/ MYSURU: Ash gourd farmers of Thirthahalli, who are in distress with no takers for their produce, have a reason to smile now — a sweet smile at that. Led by MLA Araga Jnanendra, the district officials have identified an entrepreneur to locally produce petha (sweet delicacy) using the harvest. If things fall in place, the sweet may also be named ‘Thirthahalli petha’. Thirthahalli taluk in Shivamogga district is known for its ash gourd production. Nearly 1,500 tonnes of the harvest is bought by sweet merchants in New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh annually to produce Agra petha. However with lockdown dealing 70 ash gourd growers a severe blow this season, the crop grown on 200 acres could not find buyers in north India. Because of this, the growers have been left with 2,000 tonnes of the harvest. Siddalingeshwara T, senior assistant director of the horticulture department, told TOI: “Taking into consideration the plight of our farmers, MLA Araga Jnanendra and tahsildar Shripad S B held a brainstorming session with officials from APMC and the horticulture department. To put the harvest to best use, we decided to reach out to entrepreneur Kuntavalli Vishwanath.” A fortnight ago, the MLA and the tahsildar visited the house of Vishwanath, and the latter obliged to experiment in making the petha. “He has been successful to an extent. The biggest challenge is to utilise the massive harvest in a short time. Marketing and pricing of the final product are other aspects that we need to consider,” Siddalingeshwara said, hoping the experiment proves successful enough to make farmers sustain. The tahsildar said the petha prepared by Vishwanath tastes good. “We are considering to name it ‘Thirthahalli petha’. The waste generated in its production may be used as bio-fertiliser or animal feed. Even as the experiment is on, we are planning to get licence from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India,” he said. Vishwanath, 39, a diploma mechanical engineer, said: “We started the trial by watching videos on producing Agra petha, and succeeded in it. We will start its commercial production from next week. We plan to sell petha locally and in Bengaluru, which is home to a large number of people from north India. If we get a good response, we will export it to north Indian market too,” he said, and added: “I’m paying Rs 5,000 per tonne of ash gourd. In 25 days, we can produce about 300 tonnes of petha.” Vishwanath said he is determined not to use any chemicals in petha production. “Through my venture, I want to help people get chemical-free food products,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/thirthahalli-to-get-its-own-agra-petha/articleshow/75609187.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 8, 2020||Surat||Gas leak: 500kg neutralizer from Vapi flown to Visakhapatnam||SURAT: Around 500kg of specialized chemical to neutralize the effect of chemical leakage from LG Polymer plant at Gopalapatnam on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam, was airlifted from Daman in an Indian Coast Guard plane on Thursday afternoon. Para-tertiary butyl catechol or PTBC, a chemical manufactured by KK Poonja and Sons in Vapi GIDC was airlifted from the Daman airstrip, after the Andhra Pradesh government requested Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to facilitate sending the chemical from Vapi. The gas leak took place at the LG Polymer plant in the early hours of Thursday that so far has claimed 11 lives and affected hundreds of others. The gas leakage has impacted villages within a five-km radius of the plant. Scores of citizens have been complaining of breathlessness, nausea and other problems. Several of them have been admitted to hospitals. Partner of KK Poonja and Son, Sanjay Khatau told TOI, “We got a call from LG Polymers in early morning hours after the gas leakage incident for supplying PTBC. Due to the lockdown and non-availability of transport, the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat government coordinated swiftly and the material was airlifted within two hours from Daman airport.” Khatau added, “The gas leakage is of styrene chemical and the polymerisation impact has to be controlled for causing further damage to the humans and environment.” According to Khatau, the PTBC has a unique property to neutralize the polymerisation caused due to styrene gas. Khatau company is the only manufacturer of PTBC in India and its annual production capacity is about 500 metric tonnes. “The LG polymers is our regular client and we are supplying them about 100 kilogram of PTBC per annum. Since the gas leakage was huge, there was additional requirement of 500 kg to control the polymerisation of styrene,” said Khatau. He said that the company supplies about 30% of PTBC in the domestic market and the rest is exported to Europe, USA and Middle East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gas-leak-500kg-neutralizer-from-vapi-flown-to-vizag/articleshow/75610698.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Five Covid-19 patients from Khambhat discharged||VADODARA/ANAND: Five patients were discharged from Civil Hospital, Anand on Thursday after their repeat tests for Covid-19 came negative. All the five patients belong to coastal town Khambhat. Anand district also did not record any fresh Covid-19 positive case in 24 hours ending Thursday evening. “We are thankful to doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who immensely supported us and helped in our recovery. The food arrangements at the hospital was also good,” said Shabnam Malek, 25, a resident of Khambhat’s Akbarpur area. The four others who were discharged included a 37-year-old man from Vijay Society area, a 22-year-old youth from Pipda Sheri, a 34-year-old woman from Dantarwado and an 18-year-old girl from Vijay Society. Anand has so far registered 81 Covid-19 positive cases out of which 44 got discharged and six passed away. Currently, 30 patients are under treatment.  Of the 30, two patients are on ventilator and one on oxygen support. Condition of 22 patients is reported to be stable. So far, 668 samples have been tested of which 587 tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-covid-patients-from-khambhat-discharged/articleshow/75608358.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Imam offers mosque to set up quarantine centre||KOLKATA: It is the time of Ramzan and locals in a Garden Reach cluster have come together with a proposal that should bring hope to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation that is desperately looking for spaces to set up quarantine centres. On Wednesday, the imam of the Jamia Masjid Gausia, popularly known as Bangali Bazar Masjid, proposed to give the entire third floor of the mosque on Iron Gate Road for quarantine purpose. “It is a 6,000sqft space that we are offering for both locals and those from adjoining areas. But if more space is needed, we are ready to make arrangements. The options include opening up two other floors and schools in our area. KMC may use this space for quarantine purposes. We have readied it to the best of our efforts,” said Maulana Qari Md Muslim Razwi, the imam. The idea of using part of the mosque as a quarantine centre, said Razwi, was discussed after both the local police and KMC officials approached them. “I was aware there was some opposition to setting up such centres elsewhere and I decided to discuss it with residents of Bangali Bazar, Iron Gate Road and Bichali Ghat Road. These are the people who offer their prayers here. The mosque is temporarily shut and it took a little bit of time to talk to everyone while maintaining social distance. However, we agreed on the plan and communicated it to the administration, including the Port division police,” said Razwi. Ward 134 councillor Shams Iqbal said his family has been associated with the development of the mosque for a long time. “Since most of us are praying from home now, I took this initiative on behalf of the KMC. I am happy that the locals and Imam Razwi welcomed the idea,” he said. The two wards — 134 and 135 — whose residents pray at this mosque have multiple containment zones. “There are containment zones at Paharpur, Shyamlal Lane, Kasai Moholla, Bengali Bazar, Iron Gate Road and Bichali Ghat Road in Ward 135 and Ramnagar Lane, Fatehpur village and Maher Manzil in Ward 134,” said a KMC official. Imam Razwi and Iqbal said the original purpose of the initiative was to set up a quarantine centre for locals. “It was a collective decision that everyone should feel there is a home open for them so they do not shy away from going to the quarantine centre if advised by KMC or health department officials,” Razwi said. KMC officials said they will inspect the facility soon. “We are overwhelmed by the development. We hope others, too, come forward, especially since we suffered some setbacks in a few areas like Tiljala and Parnasree due to resistance from locals. We will ascertain that the mosque is not located in a crowded area and then accordingly communicate our decision,” said a senior KMC official. A local, however, claimed that the administration had approached them about the facility, but no final decision has been taken yet. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/imam-offers-mosque-to-set-up-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75611083.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 8, 2020||Surat||Rare albino squirrel spotted in Surat’s Bardoli||Surat: Wildlife enthusiasts in Bardoli are super excited with the sighting of a rare albino squirrel. The rare rodent’s images were captured by an environmentalist from the NRI town and sent them to experts for verification. Aakash Oza, working in a chemical industry, couldn’t believe his eyes when he spotted the white squirrel near his home on Dhamdod Road in Bardoli. The man, who is also passionate about wildlife photography, then started to keep a vigil around his home to confirm that it was actually an albino squirrel that he saw. “I then decided to click its photos and inform the wildlife experts,” said Oza, who sounded as pleased as a punch upon his rare find. “I am so happy that I spotted it first and also got opportunity to click the rare animal,” he told TOI.Experts confirm that sighting of albino squirrel is absolutely rare. “I came to know from other wildlife experts that around eight years ago one albino squirrel was spotted in Surpaneshwar of Rajpipla,” said Jatin Rathod, a wildlife enthusiast, adding that plans are afoot to protect such rare breed of squirrels.In the meantime, Rathod and Oza are planning to keep constant watch on the squirrel to protect it from being hunted or captured. “Albinism is a genetic deformity and is of two types. In complete albino animals, the eyes are red in colour while in case of double recessive albino animals, there is lack of skin pigmentation while eyes are normal,” explained Karmavir Bhatt, an ecologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rare-albino-squirrel-spotted-in-surats-bardoli/articleshow/75610687.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 8, 2020||Patna||Buddha Jayanti celebrated with devotion||GAYA: The 2564th Buddha Jayanti, the rare triple coincidence of Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and salvation taking place the same day, was celebrated at Bodh Gaya with devotion and in adherence of social distancing norm necessitated by the nationwide lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Special prayers were also held in the morning, seeking riddance from the violence. Chief priest at Mahabodhi Mahavihara, Bhadant Chalinda also read out a special message addressed to Buddha followers across the world. Physical distancing norms were observed during the performance of the rituals. The chief priest appealed all to stay safe, stay indoors and observe the sacred day by praying and meditating from your homes with family, friends and transfer the merits for the good and well being of all man, animal and nature. “We pray and hope to overcome this dreadful crisis at the earliest and live together once again in peace and happiness,” the prayer stated. Earlier, in the morning, about a dozen priest accompanied by the shrine management committee secretary entered the temple premises and offered prayers both at the shrine’s sanctum sanctorum and Vajrasana, the seat of Buddha’s enlightenment under the sacred peepal tree. Symbolic offering of the delicacy known as ‘Sujata kheer’ and robes were offered to the Buddha’s bronze image installed inside the sanctorum. A Facebook live session was also conducted on the occasion. Unlike the past celebrations, no mass distribution of the ‘kheer’ or special pre-noon meal for men in robe was done this Buddha Jayanti. The Peace March with marchers holding the ‘Panchsheel flag’ symbolising peace and prosperity was also not held on Buddha Jayanti this year. This is for the first time in the last nearly seven decades that there was no public participation in the all-important event. Earlier, Bodhgaya Temple Management Committee’s (BTMC) secretary N Dorje turned down the request of the International Buddhist Council chief Ven Pragyadeep for special passes for a select group of the representatives of the Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries to participate in the Buddha Jayanti celebrations. The Council represents more than 50 registered foreign monasteries operating in Bodh Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buddha-jayanti-celebrated-with-devotion/articleshow/75608823.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 8, 2020||Patna||24 trains bring back 28k stranded people||PATNA: Altogether 24 ‘Shramik special’ trains from seven states carrying 28,457 stranded migrant workers, students and others reached different stations in Bihar on Thursday. The number of Shramik special trains reaching Bihar was the highest on Thursday ever since the ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued an order on May 1 allowing interstate movement of stranded people. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said eight special trains reached Bihar from Gujarat and five from Telangana and Maharashtra. “Three special trains reached from Rajasthan and one each from Haryana, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh,” Kumar said, adding passengers travelling by these special trains were asked to follow social distancing norms during their journey. A special train carrying about 1,100 migrant workers and students reached Bettiah from Alappuzha in Kerala, while another train with 1,284 passengers, mostly students, reached Biharsharif from Kota in Rajasthan. “The special train carrying 1,199 passengers reached Barauni and another special train from Bibinagar in Telangana arrived at Gaya carrying 1,250 migrant workers and students,” the CPRO said, adding Shramik special train from Lingampally in Telangana reached Darbhanga around 12 noon with 1,250 migrants and other stranded people. The special train from Udaipur in Rajasthan reached Hajipur around 2pm. According to the CPRO, the special trains running on Surat-Chhapra, Nandurbar-Araria, Nandurbar-Purnia, Viramgam (Gujarat)-Bettiah, Viramgam-Gaya, Surat-Purnia and Anand (Gujarat)-Muzaffarpur routes also reached safely. “The migrant workers and students were medically examined by railway and government doctors on their arrival at different stations,” Kumar said. The Shramik special train from Charlapatti in Telangana, carrying mostly migrant workers, arrived at Sitamarhi railway station. Altogether 755 migrant workers from Sitamarhi and Sheohar were sent by buses to several block level quarantine centres. Remaining 345 workers of East Champaran and West Champaran were also sent by buses. The platform number one at Sitamarhi railway station, on which the special train arrived, was adorned with flowers and balloons. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma, SP Anil Kumar, DDC Prabhat Kumar and other senior officials were present at the station. Around 1,200 stranded people reached Chhapra junction from Surat by a special train. After registration and medical screening, they were sent to quarantine centres in their respective blocks in 54 buses. “All these people will have to stay in quarantine centres for 21 days,” Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen said. Meanwhile, nearly 1,250 migrant workers reached Bhagalpur from Hyderabad by a special train. The train carrying the migrant workers from Bhagalpur and Banka districts, got delayed by nearly six hours and reached Bhagalpur around 2pm. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, SSP Ashish Bharti, DDC Sunil Kumar and other officials were present at the state. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi, H K Verma in Chhapra and Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24-trains-bring-back-28k-stranded-people/articleshow/75608561.cms||Kumod Verma
May 8, 2020||Surat||Valsad inches closer to being Covid-free||Surat: Valsad is close to becoming Covid-free district. Only one Covid-19 patient is now admitted to hospital in the district. On Thursday, a female patient was discharged after she fully recovered from the virus.“A total of six Covid-19 cases were reported in Valsad district. Of them, one patient died and four patients were discharged,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-inches-closer-to-being-covid-free/articleshow/75610639.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Durables cos helplines, videos come to rescue||Chennai: This summer when your electrical appliances and consumer durables need servicing, having the technicians come home is tough due to lockdown. Brands including Godrej, Panasonic, Samsung are now extending video consultations and helplines to serve a fraction of the complaints that can be solved over guided videos or calls. The brands are reaching out to customers through social media or through remote assist helplines. Godrej, for instance, has initiated a ‘Remote Assist’ programme. ”We are providing ‘Do It Yourself’ videos or voice assistance in order to solve at least some of the simpler service requests from our customers. We are forced to suspend all our physical service operations till further notice, for the safety and wellbeing of our customers and their families and that of our technicians and support staff,” said Ravi Bhat, service head, Godrej Appliances. The company claims to have provided solutions to 10,000 customers so far. 247around, which provides after-sale service to consumer durable brands has a video helpline where technicians are guiding customers. “We get upto 300 calls a day and we are able to help repair ACs, gas stoves, washing machines etc and the success rate is 30%,” said Nitin Malhotra, founder, 247around, which provides after sales-service for brands Samsung has an AI-assisted chat service and Havells is also leveraging digital communication techniques like WhatsApp to help customers register their complaints. Panasonic has taken to twitter to deal with customer complaints and help them service their appliances. In their hashtag #DIYACservice, hacks on how to clean ACs without having to call their technicians are uploaded and videos for other appliances are also uploaded. “From DIY videos to service appliances to contact-less resolution to technical problems where possible, we have been trying our best to resolve customer issues satisfactorily,” said spokesperson, Panasonic India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/durables-cos-helplines-videos-come-to-rescue/articleshow/75610711.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: 35% rise in fake news on social media during lockdown||MANGALURU: Cyber experts have recorded 30-35% rise in fake news on social media during the lockdown while the internet usage has gone up by 30%. Speaking to TOI, Cybersafe Bengaluru CEO Gagan Jain said the current fake news trend is related to plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. Fake messages related to the availability of plasma therapy are flooding in the cyber world, he added “Till the liquor ban was in place, fake messages on the dates related to the opening up of liquor shops were trending. Fake news on social media during this pandemic has increased by 30-35 % as against 10-15 % on normal days,” said Jain who has been undertaking social media monitoring in Bengaluru and few parts of the state. There have been instances of people trying to introduce fake apps and websites, especially related to Covid tracking. Since many government schemes have been launched, there are platforms where people can claim benefits of the scheme, such links are manipulated by morphing another person’s personality and making people click on it with the purpose of stealing data. Apps like Arogya Setu have to be downloaded from the GooglePlay store only and it is dangerous to click forwarded apk files sent as a link, said Jain. Ananth Prabhu G, professor, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management and cyber security expert predicts a rise in fake messages especially after reports emerged that Pakistan-based groups have launched cyber warfare against India. These groups have allegedly bought hundreds of domains with “in” suffix, which is all likely to be used to spread fake news. “Since these media outlets have an Indian domain name, they carry more trust value among the readers who visit them,” he said. People need to be more responsible when forwarding messages. Whatsapp too has imposed restrictions on the number of forwards. “I hope WhatsApp soon gives group admins the right to delete posts by members to prevent blindly forwarded posts from getting a wide reach,” said Ananth, who has simplified the Information Technology Act on the website www.cybersafegirl.com. In a development related to internet usage, reports suggest that the lockdown has led to an increase in internet usage by 30%. Consumption of child pornography content in India has spiked by 95 per cent amid lockdown, according to a recent report by an NGO India Child Protection Fund (ICPF), he said. Meanwhile, Bollywood celebrities have joined hands for “Mat kar Forward Campaign” urging internet users to stop forwarding videos which do not have verified information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/35-rise-in-fake-news-on-social-media-during-lockdown/articleshow/75609942.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt hands over 68-bed AES ward to Muzaffarpur hospital||PATNA: A fully-equipped 68-bed AES ward was formally handed over to the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur by the state government on Thursday. The per-fabricated ward will enable the hospital authorities to deal with cases of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) more effectively. In addition, 100-bed ward exclusively for the AES patients would be made operational at the SKMCH soon, SKMCH superintendent Dr S K Shahi said. Principal secretary of state health department Sanjay Kumar held a meeting with the officials of the district administration and the premier hospital earlier in the day to review work on construction of the 100-bed AES ward. Kumar also visited the construction site to inspect work. “It was decided at the meeting that the 70-bed AES ward will be made operational on May 10 while the work on the remaining 30-bed ward will be completed by May 31. The wards are equipped with all required facilities,” Dr Shahi claimed. Four AES patients are currently undergoing treatment at the SKMCH. While a seven-year-old girl from Aurai block in Muzaffarpur district was tested positive for AES on Wednesday, the reports of three others — one each from Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Muzaffapur districts — are awaited. Three AES patients had died earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/government-hands-over-68-bed-aes-ward-to-muz-hospital/articleshow/75608781.cms||Ramashankar
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||Migrants from Surat, Patiala, Rajkot return||Varanasi: The migrant workers stranded in different cities in lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic started arriving to their native places by special Shramik trains arranged by Indian Railways. A total of 3,588 workers from Surat, Patiala and Rajkot arrived Varanasi, Azamgarh and Ballia, respectively on Thursday, while 2,347 workers from Jalandhar and Ahmedabad arrived Ghazipur and Mau, respectively on Wednesday. The train from Surat reached Varanasi railway station with around 1,200 workers at around 5pm on Thursday. Regional manager SK Rai said that the workers are being sent to their destination by buses after proper screening. As many as 50 buses have been arranged to take the workers to Allahabad, Jaunpur, Faizabad and Ghazipur districts. The first train reached Azamgarh with 1,188 workers from Patiala at around 11.30am. All the passengers were screened at the railway station before boarding buses for their respective destinations. Around 47 buses were arranged for them. Azamgarh DM Nagendra Prasad Singh said that among the workers arriving here three belonged to Ambedkar Nagar and four to Jaunpur districts. Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh said that about 6,000 migrant workers from different states are expected to arrive in next few days. Similarly, 1,200 migrant workers reached Ballia on Thursday. According to joint magistrate Vipin Jain, 50 buses have been arranged to take the migrant workers to their destinations in Sonbhadra, Ghazipur, Mau, Gonda and Siddharthnagar districts. On Wednesday, a total of 1,159 workers from Jalandhar reached Ghazipur. Buses and other vehicles were arranged to ferry them to their destination after screening. Ghazipur DM OP Arya and other officials remained present on the occasion. Similarly, 1,188 workers ched Mau on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrants-from-surat-patiala-rajkot-return/articleshow/75608417.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks govt’s response on ‘incentives’ for cops, health workers||PATNA: The Patna high court on Thursday sought a reply from the Centre as well as state government within two weeks on whether there is a provision for ‘risk and hardship’ allowances for policemen and healthcare workers engaged in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Terming them as “guardian angels” in the present circumstances, the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar also directed both respondents to provide details of steps taken for their protecting from the disease as well as public attacks they are facing. The court will hold a hearing on May 21. The bench was hearing a PIL via video-conferencing filed by Shivani Kaushik, a first-year law student of a private institute, who urged the court to direct the state government for making appropriate provisions for payment of ‘risk and hardship’ allowances, incentives in the form of bonus, additional salary to policemen and healthcare workers who are on the frontline in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner also urged that employees above the age of 48 years with medical conditions should not be deployed in areas where they may come in direct or indirect contact with Covid-19 patients. She had also prayed for providing PPE kits, masks, sanitizers and other items to all policemen and health staff for self-protection. While the petitioner appeared in person before the bench during the hearing, additional advocate general Anjani Kumar appeared for the state and counsel Naresh Dixit appeared for the Centre. AAG opposed the PIL by submitting that it was not maintainable. He also submitted that it was vague and a matter it related to policy decision of state government, thus no mandamus could be issued by the court. Kumar further submitted that it would amount to financial liability on state government. Dixit also submitted that prayers in student’s PIL were unspecified, vague and generalised in nature. However, court remained dissatisfied with their please. “No doubt in these testing times, these ‘guardian angels’ have to show perseverance and resilience and work with Karuna (compassion), but then, even they also need to be protected and their dignity maintained. Their response to the call of duty needs to be acknowledged, appreciated and perhaps incentivized in every respect. Protection of their lives is also duty of the state,” the court observed while seeking reply from both parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-govts-response-on-incentives-for-cops-health-workers/articleshow/75609183.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 8, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid-19 mom goes home with baby||SURAT : She was yearning to hold her new-born baby boy in her arms, but could not do so as she had tested positive for coronavirus. Finally, Thursday came as a big relief for 26-year-old Rashmi Patel, a staff nurse at a private hospital in Chikhli town, when she snuggled her son and broke into tears of joy. Patel, a resident of Hanuman Faliya in Tankal village of Chikhli taluka, had tested positive on April 28 and shifted to the isolation ward of MGG Covid-19 hospitalin Navsari. Her husband, Jatin Patel, who runs a business of iron welding, however, tested negative on April 29. On May 1, she gave birth to a baby boy. “Thankfully, the baby also tested negative for the infection, said senior gynaecologist of hospital, Dr Nehal Patel. “Since the mother was infected, we were not bringing the baby close to her. . We were elated when she tested negative and was discharged from the hospital,” Dr Patel added. Talking to TOI, Jatin said, “She had no symptoms of the virus. But she may have got infected from the hospital where she is working as nurse. I am relieved that she has recovered and our child will get proper nourishment of mother’s milk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-mom-goes-home-with-baby/articleshow/75610515.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Surat-based contractor alleges threat to life||GAYA: Sunil Singh, a Surat-based contractor and a resident of Fatehpur police station area of Gaya district, has apprehended threat to his life, alleging that his prosperity has angered some upper caste men of the village. According to Singh, he along with two of his brothers worked as contractors in Surat and making handsome earning. He was the lone member from a backward caste in the village dominated by upper castes. Earlier, on April 13, Sunil’s father Rajindra Singh had lodged a complaint with the police alleging therein that seven villagers attacked him and his family members in connection with some past dispute. He along with his sons were injured in the attack made by conventional weapons. A car belonging to him was also damaged. Though the FIR refers to some past dispute, Sunil on Thursday afternoon said that it was only on account of jealousy, that his family, despite being backward, prospered, whereas his upper caste covillagers were not doing well on the economic front. Sunil also said that he was going to Kolkata for treatment of an eye injury received in the attack on April 13. On April 14, a criminal case was registered under section 323, 324, 325, 307/448/427/504 and 506 against the named accused. According to the victim, the accused were not being arrested on the alibi of pre-occupation with the implementation of the lockdown. According to Sunil, 10 days after the first incident, his family was attacked once again but the police only made a station diary entry and did not register an FIR. Denying any caste angle in the incident, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said that it was like any other crime. “Raids have been conducted several times but the accused are absconding. The culprits will be soon brought to book,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/surat-based-contractor-alleges-threat-to-life/articleshow/75608860.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Let people enter Rajasthan: Jalore MP to Gehlot||Jaisalmer: In a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Jalore-Sirohi MP Devji Patel on Thursday expressed annoyance on stopping migrants by sealing the borders. He has requested the CM to permit those people who have left other states on valid permission to enter Rajasthan. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta in this regard said that police and administration are following the prescribed guidelines issued by the state government to seal the borders. Arrangements have been made that no unauthorized person can enter, especially in temporary routes, pits and trenches have been dug so that no one can come. Three check-posts have been set up at the interstate border adjoining Gujarat. Checking is being done and those migrants coming are being checked for permission according to the govt guidelines, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/let-people-enter-raj-jalore-mp-to-gehlot/articleshow/75611880.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Father, son die in Jaisalmer road accident||A father-son duo was killed in a road accident on the national highway, 25km from Jaisalmer district headquarters on Thursday. A tractor-trolley parked on the roadside near Bhagu village was hit by a pick-up vehicle and the trolley, loaded with stones, overturned. The father and son, who were standing near the tractor, got buried under the tractor and died on the spot, while the pick-up vehicle’s driver fled. The bodies were handed over to family after post-mortem and police have started searching for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/father-son-die-in-jaisalmer-road-accident/articleshow/75611873.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Bharuch cleans its Covid-19 slate, last three patients discharged||SURAT: The last three Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital in Bharuch on Thursday. These patients were got discharged from the Jayaben Modi Covid-19 hospital in Ankleshwar, after their two test reports came negative.The patients include mother-daughter duo Farhana Shaikh, 25 and Ashafia Shaikh, 11, from Bharuch’s Munda Faliya and Moin Saiyed, 38, a resident of Kasak in Bharuch. With this there is no active coronavirus case in the south Gujarat district. Bharuch had recorded a total of 27 Covid-19 patients since April 10, out of which two — Menuma Bekriwala, 60 and Irfan Shaikh, 42— succumbed to the infection. Health officials said that seven healthcare staff including a gynaecologist; five Jamatis from Ikhar village in Amod taluka; seven Jamatis from Devla and Jambusar; four from Munda Faliya and one each from Kasak, Jhadeshwar, Bholav and Jhagadiya; had tested positive for the virus. Talking with TOI, district collector, Dr M D Modiya said, “At least for now, the district is Covid free. Till now, about 2.93 lakh households in the entire district have been surveyed by the 326 health teams who collected at least 40 samples every day from the district.” Dr Modiya added, “Our next strategy is to focus on the community health centre and primary health centres in the district by screening maximum number of people. Orders have been issued to increase the sample collection to 50 per day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-cleans-its-covid-slate-last-three-patients-discharged/articleshow/75610461.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Surat||Trains for migrants cancelled after Odisha high court order||Surat: The Surat district administration cancelled departure of trains from Surat to Odisha following a Odisha High Court’s order on Thursday. The Odhisha HC has ordered to bring the stranded migrants into the state only after conducting their Covid-19 tests in the host states.District collector, Dhaval Patel said, “All trains towards Odisha stands cancelled from Friday onwards following Odisha HC order for conducting Covid test of the migrants. There are about 3 lakh Odiya migrants wanting to go to their home districts. The district administration does not have the facility to conduct tests of such a huge population.”According to the reports, about 21 people who entered Odisha from Surat tested positive on Thursday.Patel said, “We have requested the divisional manager of the WR to refund the train fare to the passengers.”As per an estimate, about 45,000 people have travelled from Surat to Odisha through trains and private luxury buses in the last 10 days. About 15 Shramik special trains have transported more than 17,000 Odiya migrants and that the rest have travelled by private buses. Surat Odiya Welfare Association VP, Bhagirath Behara said, “The entire Odiya community in Surat is upset with the HC order. The Odisha government can provide facility for the Covid test and if someone is found infected, he or she can be treated in the hospitals there.”Behara added, “The Covid-19 test costs Rs 3,500 and the workers here cannot afford to pay for it as they have been unemployed for over a month. Many Odiya migrants have taken the deposit back from their house owners and they are without shelter and food.”According to Behara, the Odisha High Court's decision is only going to fuel unrest among the Odiya community in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trains-for-migrants-cancelled-after-odisha-high-court-order/articleshow/75610359.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Sebi asks Franklin to return money to investors in 6 funds||Partha Sinha | TNN Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi has come down heavily on Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund for its global chief Jennifer M Johnson’s comments that one of the reasons for the closure of six schemes was due to a decision by the regulator in October 2019. Late on Thursday, Sebi asked Franklin Templeton MF to “focus on returning the money to investors” stuck in these funds “as soon as possible”. Sebi also pointed out that some of the unlisted debt papers in which a few of the fund houses were invested in had a opaque structure as well as lacked financial disclosures. The details of the meetings of Sebi’s advisory committees in 2019 showed that Sanjay Sapre, Franklin Templeton MF’s India chief, was present at those deliberations in which the decision on MFs’ investment in unlisted companies was taken. In its late evening release, Sebi said that Franklin Templeton MF should focus on returning money to investors in the six funds, which are being closed down. Drawing reference to Franklin global CEO’s comments, the regulator pointed out “in light of credit events since September 2018 (after IL&FS defaulted), that led to challenges in the corporate bond market, a need was felt to review the regulatory framework for mutual funds and take necessary steps to safeguard the interest of investors and maintain the orderliness and robustness of their investments”. The Sebi release also pointed out that during its deliberations to change MFs’ investment rules to make it safer for investors, “It was observed that unlisted debt securities, particularly bespoke securities in which only a single investor invested, suffered from both forms of opaqueness: Opaqueness of structure and true nature of risk on the one hand, and lack of ongoing disclosure in respect of financials of the issuer on the other.” The regulator also pointed out that the decision to change rules — that no debt fund will be allowed to invest more than 10% in unlisted debt papers of companies — was not sudden. It had allowed MFs “to grandfather the existing investments in unlisted debt instruments till maturity of such instruments, so as to not disrupt the market”. Early this month, Johnson had said that the rule was changed in October 2019 and the fund’s schemes were left with lot of illiquid debt papers. The Sebi release said that after several deliberations of its MF advisory committee, the final decision to change the rules was taken in June 2019 and through a circular on October 1, 2019 the deadline was fixed. First, fund houses were given a deadline of March 2020 to cut down their exposure to unlisted debt papers to 15% of the scheme’s portfolio and then to 10% by June 2020. These dates were subsequently extended to September 2020 and December 2020. “Despite the regulations being clear, some MF schemes seem to have chosen to have high concentrations of high-risk, unlisted, opaque, bespoke, structured debt securities with low credit ratings and seem to have chosen not to rebalance their portfolios even during the almost 12 months available to them so far,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-asks-franklin-to-return-money-to-investors-in-6-funds/articleshow/75612215.cms||Partha Sinha
May 8, 2020||Patna||2k students elated on reaching home||MOTIHARI/BIHARSHARIF: Stranded for over 40 days in Kota following the nationwide lockdown on March 24, over two thousand students hailing from several districts of the state arrived by special trains at Motihari and Biharsharif railway stations on Thursday morning. Most of the students were elated on reaching home. In Motihari, they were welcomed by senior officials from the East Champaran district administration, police and health department at platform number one of the railway station. They were also provided food packets, water bottles and tea. The students were also offered flowers by East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok and SP Nawin Chandra Jha and asked to maintain social distancing during home quarantine. Station superintendent Rakesh Tripathi said, “The platform and station area were sanitized and GRP and RPF personnel were deployed in and around the station. A detailed passenger list was prepared with their cell phone numbers by the district administration to monitor the arrival of students.” Even the Biharsharif railway station was beautifully decorated with colourful balloons and flowers and Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh was present to receive the students. While there were 716 students hailing from Nalanda district, 348 students were from nine other districts of the state. Students were medically screened at both the railway stations before boarding buses, which were parked outside the railway stations,for taking them to their respective places. Before boarding the buses registration of the students was also done and they were also asked to stay in home quarantine for 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2k-students-elated-on-reaching-home/articleshow/75608574.cms||Farrukh Nadim
May 8, 2020||Business||Yes Bank plans bad bank, eyes Rs 15k cr capital raise||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Yes Bank plans to create a ‘bad bank’ out of its non-performing assets (NPAs) by hiving off its bad loans into a separate unit and offering the same to investors who specialise in stressed assets. The bank is also looking at raising Rs 15,000 crore through another round of equity issue. The private bank’s share price closed nearly 7% higher at Rs 28 on Thursday after hitting the upper circuit intraday. The bank’s share price rose after it announced that its post-tax loss of Rs 3,668 crore turned into a profit of Rs 2,629 crore, adding a one-time gain from writing off its liabilities towards its additional tier-1 bonds. Speaking to TOI, MD & CEO Prashant Kumar said that the bank has made provisioning of over 74% towards bad loans and stressed investments. Any provisions in future would be on account of Covid or economic slowdown. “Now the stressed asset portfolio has a 74% provision coverage, there is no pressure. We can segregate it within the bank in a separate subsidiary, or if a bad bank is created, then the remaining bank looks very attractive with NPAs of less than 0.5%,” said Kumar. He added that there was huge interest from stressed asset funds who are interested in both — investments in the assets as well as capital of the company and taking over management. Kumar said that the bank was currently compliant with the RBI’s norms on capital adequacy, with tier-1 capital of nearly 6.5%. “We would like to have a buffer of 200 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) for future accounts. Also, we want to raise enough to meet our targeted growth of 10%. If we raise around Rs 15,000 crore, we would not need to come to the market for three years,” said Kumar. He added that it was looking at raising equity from new investors including global funds. However, existing investors could pick up additional shares if they wished. According to Acuite Ratings & Research chief analytical officer Suman Chowdhury, Yes Bank will need to raise additional capital in the order of Rs 5,000-10,000 crore in the near term to not only meet the regulatory requirements but also to absorb the incremental losses for the current year. “The ability to raise Capital 2.0 from existing or new investors within defined timelines and continued regulatory support for such equity mobilisation efforts will be the key to the sustainability of the bank. While the reported NPAs have declined in Q4 due to write-offs and the provisioning cover is healthy at 74%, there are significant risks of further slippages in the corporate portfolio post the end of the Covid moratorium,” said Chowdhury. Carving out the NPAs would enable Yes Bank to position itself as a retail tech-savvy bank, said Kumar. He added that all the digital players, including PhonePe, who partnered other banks during the moratorium have returned to Yes Bank.Yes Bank does not have any plans to engage in a cost-cutting exercise on the HR front. “So today, I am not shedding my workforce, but it doesn’t mean that my workforce will continue to do what they were doing earlier,” said Kumar. He added that employees in the corporate office might be used for business division, analytics or customer calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-plans-bad-bank-eyes-rs-15k-cr-capital-raise/articleshow/75610739.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 8, 2020||Surat||DGVCL asks textile unit owners to pay dues by May 15||Surat: The embattled man-made fabric (MMF) industry in Surat got a shock on Tuesday after state-run power distributor Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (DGVCL) sent out messages to the unit owners asking them to pay their electricity dues latest by May 15.The recovery message comes at a time when the industry is already battling migrant exodus and loss of business due to lockdown as powerloom weaving units, textile processing units and others are not operational. On the other hand, payments to the tune of crores is stuck with the textile traders and the realisation is possible only after the markets become operational.Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Powerloom Association said, “Powerloom weavers have not received payments from the market. We are requesting the state government to extend the bill payment dates till June 30.”Mayur Golwala, a powerloom unit owner said, “About 90% of the weavers are doing job work for the master weavers. When the units are shut since March 25, the government must give relief in the electricity bills. We are upset with the way the DGVCL has sent messages asking for dues.”A senior DGVCL officer requesting anonymity said, “There are no guidelines from the state government for extending the bill payment dates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dgvcl-asks-textile-unit-owners-to-pay-dues-by-may-15/articleshow/75610549.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Social worker on a mask mission||KOCHI: Sreeman Narayanan, who was in the limelight for distributing thousands of earthen vessels to provide water for birds during the summer, has started an initiative to provide reusable masks free of cost to people of Muppathadam. Narayanan, who had earlier distributed biography of Mahatma Gandhi, saplings of fruit trees and medicinal plants to people of Muppathadam, said the new initiative is to create awareness among the people regarding the use of masks. “There are around 5,000 houses at Muppathadam and I want to provide at least three masks in every house. All these masks are made out of cloth and can be reused after washing,” said Narayanan, who was in the news last year after being chosen by Supreme Master Ching Hai, a Vietnamese cult leader for ‘The Shining World Compassion Award’. Narayanan said the masks were brought using own funds. “It has cost me around Rs 1.7 lakh. The inauguration of disbursal of masks would be made by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar on Friday,” he said. The masks would be distributed from Hotel Dwaraka, the hotel run by Narayanan at Muppathadam. Narayanan has also initiated a project to distribute earthen pots for providing water to birds with the help of one lakh students of Kerala State Bharat Scouts and Guides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/social-worker-on-a-mask-mission/articleshow/75609260.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Lockdown: Blood banks run ‘dry’ in Patna||PATNA: Blood banks in the city are facing an acute shortage of blood as regular donors are not showing up due to the lockdown. While some donors said they avoid going to blood bank as it would amount to violation of lockdown, others are apprehensive of getting infected by Covid-19. Saguna Mor resident Amit Sinha, who used to donate blood on a regular basis, said he stopped going to blood bank after the lockdown began. “There are too many restrictions due to the lockdown. Even if I have a genuine reason, I will be stopped at different points. Therefore, I prefer staying at home,” he said. Patients of thalassemia and blood disorders are the worst affected as they require blood every 15 or 17 days. Khusrupur resident Shambu Kumar, whose six-year-old son, a thalassemia patient, requires blood at least twice a month, said, “The disease demands lifelong regular blood transfusions. Prior to the lockdown, I used to take him to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) every 15 days. Though thalassemia patients are at higher risk of getting infected by the virus, I had to take my son to another hospital in Patna on April 6. As it was just the beginning of the lockdown, I somehow arranged blood for him,” he said. Blood bank owners in the city also admitted shortage of blood. Red Cross Society, one of the largest blood banks in the state, has hardly received blood in the last six weeks. Society’s chairman Dr B B Sinha said, “In a bid to encourage donors, we have released a helpline number – 9334172767 – for pick-drop facilities and doorstep collection of blood. People willing to donate blood can contact us to get the services.” Jaya Prabha Blood Bank, where five people donated blood voluntarily on Wednesday, is also facing the crisis. “The number of blood donors has reduced by more than 95%,” said Dr Ravindra of the blood bank. As blood banks are unable to hold camps, they are only giving the reserved stocks to serious patients. Rajeev Kumar Pandey, owner of Jeevan Rekha Blood Bank, said blood collection has reduced from 11-12 units to 0-1 unit per day. “It’s not possible to hold blood camps in a situation like this,” he said. Social activist Mukesh Hissariya, who is planning to organise 36 blood camps on the occasion of World Thalassemia Day on Friday, said he has encouraged several people to participate in the camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/blood-banks-run-dry/articleshow/75609070.cms||Archi Rani
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Border force brings back jawans on leave, readies quarantine hubs||Jaisalmer: BSF jawans from different districts of Rajasthan who had gone on leave around Holi and for various other reasons are being brought back to rejoin duty. These jawans are being brought at battalion and sector headquarters in BSF vehicles from their houses. In last two days, around 150 officers have been brought back to Rajasthan at various battalions and sectors and have been kept in quarantine. BSF has made quarantine centres at different levels at battalion headquarters and sector headquarters. Centre has issued order to keep these BSF jawans on mandatory quarantine after they return from leave. It is said that at present, around 5,000 jawans and officers deployed at various sectors and battalions in Rajasthan are on leave, at their homes. These jawans had gone on leave for Holi and other reasons and after the situation started deteriorating, these personnel were ordered to remain where they were. These jawans are required at the borders on duty, so BSF headquarters prepared a plan to bring back these jawans on duty, under which jawans in various places of Rajasthan were gathered and vehicles were sent to bring them to their battalion and sector headquarters. Vehicles were sent from four sectors of Rajasthan including Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Ganganagar and frontier headquarters. Confirming this, BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha said that after the orders of headquarters to bring back jawans who had gone on leave, a plan was made under which those places were identified in the state which were not hotspots and dangerous from the pandemic point of view and vehicles were sent to those places and the jawans were brought back to the place of their deployment and have been kept in quarantine. He said that as per the orders from the Central government, the jawans and officers returning from leave will have to be kept in quarantine compulsorily for 14 days for which quarantine facility was made at different levels at battalion and sector headquarters. He said in any battalion, if the number of jawans is more, then the district administration has been requested to allot government buildings or schools to keep these jawans in quarantine there. IG said that in the entire Rajasthan frontier, jawans and officers have been directed to take strict preventive measures. The entire battalion and sector headquarters have been sealed. No one is allowed to go out from the premises and similarly, no one is allowed to enter into the premises. All buildings and border outposts are being sanitised and directions have been issued to wear masks and frequently use sanitisers. Health check ups and screenings of jawans and officers are being done from time to time. If any jawan is found with symptoms like cough, fever etc, then directions have been given for immediate testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/border-force-brings-back-jawans-on-leave-readies-quarantine-hubs/articleshow/75611865.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Sebi asks Franklin to return money to investors in 6 funds||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has come down heavily on Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund for its global chief Jennifer M Johnson’s comments that one of the reasons for the closure of six schemes was due to a decision by the regulator in October 2019. Late on Thursday, Sebi asked Franklin Templeton MF to “focus on returning the money to investors” stuck in these funds “as soon as possible”. Sebi also pointed out that some of the unlisted debt papers in which a few of the fund houses were invested in had a opaque structure as well as lacked financial disclosures. The details of the meetings of Sebi’s advisory committees in 2019 showed that Sanjay Sapre, Franklin Templeton MF’s India chief, was present at those deliberations in which the decision on MFs’ investment in unlisted companies was taken. In its late evening release, Sebi said that Franklin Templeton MF should focus on returning money to investors in the six funds, which are being closed down. Drawing reference to Franklin global CEO’s comments, the regulator pointed out “in light of credit events since September 2018 (after IL&FS defaulted), that led to challenges in the corporate bond market, a need was felt to review the regulatory framework for mutual funds and take necessary steps to safeguard the interest of investors and maintain the orderliness and robustness of their investments”. The Sebi release also pointed out that during its deliberations to change MFs’ investment rules to make it safer for investors, “It was observed that unlisted debt securities, particularly bespoke securities in which only a single investor invested, suffered from both forms of opaqueness: Opaqueness of structure and true nature of risk on the one hand, and lack of ongoing disclosure in respect of financials of the issuer on the other.” The regulator also pointed out that the decision to change rules — that no debt fund will be allowed to invest more than 10% in unlisted debt papers of companies — was not sudden. It had allowed MFs “to grandfather the existing investments in unlisted debt instruments till maturity of such instruments, so as to not disrupt the market”. Early this month, Johnson had said that the rule was changed in October 2019 and the fund’s schemes were left with lot of illiquid debt papers. The Sebi release said that after several deliberations of its MF advisory committee, the final decision to change the rules was taken in June 2019 and through a circular on October 1, 2019 the deadline was fixed. First, fund houses were given a deadline of March 2020 to cut down their exposure to unlisted debt papers to 15% of the scheme’s portfolio and then to 10% by June 2020. These dates were subsequently extended to September 2020 and December 2020. “Despite the regulations being clear, some MF schemes seem to have chosen to have high concentrations of high-risk, unlisted, opaque, bespoke, structured debt securities with low credit ratings and seem to have chosen not to rebalance their portfolios even during the almost 12 months available to them so far,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-asks-franklin-to-return-money-to-investors-in-6-funds/articleshow/75610787.cms||Partha Sinha
May 8, 2020||Patna||Food corporation man works tirelessly||PATNA: The Covid-19 lockdown may have restricted the movement of most people in the city, but State Food Corporation (SFC) worker, Arvind Kumar, ensures uninterrupted supply of food grains from the Musallahpur Hat to dealers in Patna City. The 33-year-old has not met his family in Barh for over a month now. “Considering the restrictions imposed on the movement of people amid the lockdown, it was not possible for me to travel from Barh every day. Also, I did not want to put my family’s life at risk because I meet a lot of people at work. I, therefore, decided to stay at a rented room near our warehouse,” Arvind told this newspaper on Thursday. With a team of 70 other staff, Arvind loads and unloads hundreds of food-laden trucks, which are transported to other places. “The current situation is critical and if one of us stops working, it will affect everything. Hence, we are trying to do our bit by making sure that essential commodities reach hundreds of people without any interruption,” he said. Although Arvind is taking all necessary precautions, his better half and kids are worried about his safety. He said, “She has even told me to quit this job and go back home.” Asked what problems he was facing at work, a disappointed Arvind replied, “We do not have masks, gloves, sanitizers or soaps to clean our hands regularly. Even after working tirelessly, we are not being given food, which was promised to us in the beginning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/food-corporation-man-works-tirelessly/articleshow/75609159.cms||Archi Rani
May 8, 2020||Business||MSME default rate lowest in biz loans||Mumbai: As risk-averse banks shy away from lending, an analysis of loan defaults reveals that delinquencies among micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) continue to be lower than large corporations. Credit bureau TransUnion Cibil has said that two out of three MSMEs entered this lockdown with structurally strong positions. Of these, about half are very strongly positioned. The total lending to businesses in India stood at Rs 64.45 lakh crore as of January 2020, of which the MSME segment holds a Rs 17.75-lakh-crore credit exposure. The large corporates segment’s credit exposure is at Rs 46.7 lakh crore and this has had a year-on-year expansion of 6.3%. In January, the non-performing asset (NPA) rate for large corporates was at 19.7%, while the NPA rate in the MSME segment stood at 12.5%. The NPA rate for the micro segment at 9% has been lower than the small and medium segments, which was at 11%. NPA rates are highest for medium-sized MSMEs at 18% across all lenders. These findings strengthen the case for support of credit flow to the MSME segment, which is facing a liquidity issue due to the absence of sales even as these enterprises have to meet fixed costs of salaries, rent and maintenance. TU Cibil said public sector banks accounted for 40% of fresh disbursals in 2019 in the micro segment, followed by private banks (38%) and NBFC (22%). This segment saw fresh credit disbursals worth Rs 92,262 crore in 2019. Many lenders expect the government to announce a special package for the MSME sector to support flow of credit. Punjab National Bank has launched an MSME outreach programme where executives have contacted 1 lakh MSME borrowers to update them about a Covid emergency finance scheme. Additionally, they are told about the facility to receive finance against outstanding bills under the online platform of Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS).TU Cibil has calculated the structural strength of MSMEs by using its Cibil MSME Rank (CMR), and credit utilisation of MSMEs are used to identify and map their position. Structurally stronger MSMEs are expected to be in a position of low leverage and high liquidity prior to the pandemic situation. “This hypothesis is back-tested under two earlier stress scenarios — the first being the goods and services tax (GST) implementation period starting July 2017, while the second covers the period starting July 2018, which includes the NBFC liquidity crunch and MSME credit growth slowdown after March 2019. Structurally strong MSMEs are better positioned to survive the current pandemic situation and emerge stable. These MSMEs are the most eligible to receive financial assistance from credit institutions,” said TU Cibil MD and CEO Rajesh Kumar. “There is an opportunity here for banks and financial institutions to identify and fund these entities and build a healthy portfolio. Such targeted interventions can help refuel the economy through these unprecedented times, while ensuring that portfolio risk is under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msme-default-rate-lowest-in-biz-loans/articleshow/75610706.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Salt Lake man shows Covid-19 signs, locality sealed off||KOLKATA: Another locality in Salt Lake — a stone’s throw from City Centre and close to the three liquor shops that have been attracting the largest crowd in the past four days — was sealed off on Thursday after a CD Block resident was hospitalized with Covid-like symptoms. With its inclusion, 17 areas in the township have now become containment zones. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation now plans to start conducting special community swab sampling and testing among residents, especially those who stay in and around the residences of medical professionals and healthcare workers. According to sources from the civic body, the patient from CD Block, in his 60s, has been hospitalized with Covid-19 symptoms and barricades were set up to cordon off the stretch in front of his house. “We have heard he was suffering from fever for the past few days. We thoroughly sanitized the locality on Thursday morning. We will provide all necessary help to the residents of the closed-off stretch,” said local councillor Tulsi Sinha Roy. The civic officials, meanwhile, have started sanitizing BD Market, which is the closest market to CD Block, after news spread that family members of the patient had visited the market in the past two days. “We are very tense. My elderly mother stays very close to the patient’s house. Her house is now inside the containment zone and she has become very worried,” said Julee Mullick, a resident of CF Block. Bidhannagar health department officials said they were conducting a door-to-door survey in several places and, from this weekend, they will start conducting community sampling and testing. The civic body is also sending around 10 to 12 healthcare workers to a government hospital for training before they are engaged in the swab-collection job. Meanwhile, more restrictions were put in place in New Town and Kestopur markets, shortening their operation hours. “We mustn’t forget our area falls in the red zone,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-man-shows-covid-signs-locality-sealed-off/articleshow/75611216.cms||Suman Chakraborti
May 8, 2020||Patna||Rain, thunderstorm lash state||PATNA/NAWADA: Skies in the state capital were covered with dense clouds and showers occurred in the afternoon on Thursday. The Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted thunderstorm would continue till May 11. The next two days, however, are likely to witness comparatively calm weather particularly in south-west and south- central Bihar. Warning has also been issued for thunderstorm with lightning at one or two places in all 38 districts over the next four days. The intensity of thunderstorm is expected to be higher on Sunday and Monday when gusty winds would blow at the speed up to 40-50kmph, the Met department said. In Nawada, a severe hailstorm accompanied with heavy rain lashed several places on Thursday, causing heavy damage and inconvenience to residents. Gusty winds blowing at the speed of 70 to 80kmph uprooted several trees. The road leading to official residences of Nawada DM and SP were blocked with uprooted trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-thunderstorm-lash-state/articleshow/75608729.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Ambala cops abort Bettiah migrants’ cycle journey home||BETTIAH: Their hopes of a train ride home to Bihar appearing like a mirage, a group of 11 lock-down fatigued migrant workers from Bettiah sub-division of West Champaran district pedalled out on a 1,300 km journey home in desperation from Chandigarh on Wednesday afternoon. They could cycle only as far as Ambala, 45 km away, in Haryana, before being stopped. “Sir, police turned us back in Ambala last night... they said ‘train chal rahi hai, uss se jao (Trains are running, go by rail),” leader of the pack Sanjay Mahto told TOI on Thursday. “We had daal-roti at a dhaba (on the highway) and slept on the roadside,” he said. Over a week ago, the migrant had called seeking help after his calls to elected representatives back home had yielded no result. “Please help us get home... we have no work or money...will die here,” he had cried. When contacted with his constituents’ pleas, Sanjay Jaiswal, Paschim Champaran MP and Bihar BJP chief, said, “We are helping migrants across India.” Following the mention of these migrants on social media, a couple of good Samaritans, who wish to remain anonymous, transferred money to Hari Mahto, the only one in the group with ATM access. Meanwhile, the government announced that special Shramik special trains would ferry migrants home. “We are registering ourselves,” an audibly relieved Sanjay Mahto said on phone, confirming the receipt of money. “Sir, please do not arrange for any more money,” he had said. A couple of days later, he called, “Twenty people have already left on cycles...some us will wait another day for confirmation of seats on trains.” That wait in hope soon dissipated into despair. “My registration is 33009...others in the group are listed further down...in 34k, 36 k and 50 k series,” Sanjay called to say on Wednesday. “ We have decided to cycle home,” he said. Reaching Ambala late on Wednesday evening, Sanjay and his mates pedalled into a police picket on the highway. Left high and dry by the cop wall, they have cycled back in desolation. “When will our turn come to board a train?,” his call after returning to Chandigarh on Thursday lay suspended like the dark clouds that hovered over his village back here in Champaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ambala-cops-abort-bettiah-migrants-cycle-journey-home/articleshow/75608590.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Well-heeled Malayalis in the Gulf plan chartered flights||KOCHI: Well-to-do Malayalis in the gulf, who want to travel at their own pace and in smaller intimate groups are looking up to private chartered flights to return home. Premium tour companies in Doha that operate on-demand flights for the well-heeled already have them on standby mode and are privately taking registrations expecting that they would be given permission to fly. “Many NRIs, who won’t be eligible for repatriation by flights arranged by the Indian government, are seriously looking at the option,” said Shabeer Ahamed, a Qatar resident. These flights, with capacities up to 18 pax, can be operated to Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Kannur airports, once they receive necessary permissions. “If one or two families know each other, they can travel together in such flights without worries. With commercial airlines, they don’t know where these people are coming from, so there is a high chance of getting infected,” said Aji Kuriakose, director, Magic Tours, a premium tour company based in Doha. Another advantage is that they can choose the time to travel. “If the airport is less crowded at the chosen time, they can just come in and out,” he said. Around 30,000 people have registered to travel to Kerala and it is unlikley that they would be able to find a seat on a repatriation flight any time soon, he said. “In the pregnant women category, there are more than 1,000 registered. People on visit visas would be around 2,400 and almost half the number of registered people have lost their jobs,” said Kuriakose. While high-profile businessmen are not looking to shift back to Kerala they want to send their families home. There are also students who have come on visit visas and visiting parents who are desparate to return. “We are also trying to get regular flights like A320, or Boeing 737 which have a capacity of 200 seats,” said Kuriakose, who is also convener for the crisis management team of Kerala Business Forum in Qatar. The cost per person for such flights would come to 3,000 riyals per person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/well-heeled-malayalis-in-the-gulf-plan-chartered-flights/articleshow/75609274.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||In Karkala, teachers monitor SSLC students through calls||MANGALURU: Karkala taluk had launched several innovative programmes during the academic year to ensure that students performed well in the SSLC exams. The taluk is aiming at 100% results. Block education officer (BEO) GS Shashidhar had launched ‘Mane Mana Bheti’ programme under Mission-100 Karkala and top officials of the district including the MLA V Sunil Kumar, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha and DDPI Sheshashayana Karinja visited homes of students appearing for SSLC exams between 5am-7am and 7pm-9pm to instil confidence among them and also interact with parents. Preparations were almost done, but the exams had to be postponed because of the pandemic. However, the department has not given up. Though teachers are on Covid-19 duty and the BEO himself is a nodal officer and has the responsibility of making arrangements for migrants entering the district, the education department has taken steps to stay in touch with the students. Teachers including headmasters, headmistress and assistant teachers have been asked to call students everyday and check on the progress of their studies. “We have asked teachers to keep a tab on the progress of the students by calling them up everyday and check if they have difficulty in any subject. School heads and assistant teachers have been asked to keep a record on the calls made on Google sheets and maintain a diary on the number of calls made every day and a gist of their interaction with the students,” Shashidhar told TOI. The programme is being monitored by the BEO and Mission 100 nodal officer Venkatramana Kalkura and the technical team is led by Shivaprasad Adiga, assistant teacher, Government High School, Suda. “Teachers have taken a lot of initiatives to help the students during these difficult times. They discuss questions and answers on WhatsApp. In rural places and interior areas like Kabbinale and Muniyalu where only basic phones work, teachers are calling and even interacting with parents,” the BEO said. Karkala MLA V Sunil Kumar released a motivational video message addressing students. Students are encouraged to follow the ‘Makkalavani’ on YouTube and revision classes on DD Chandana. Some teachers have also come forward to take up online classes. Over 2,500 students will appear for SSLC exams from the taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/in-karkala-teachers-monitor-sslc-students-through-calls/articleshow/75610266.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uncertainty plagues parents of students stuck abroad||AHMEDABAD: Raj Upadhyay, a student of MBA Finance at a university in New York, USA, is on the verge of completing his semester and intends to return to India owing to the coronavirus pandemic and spike in cases. The recent announcement by the government of India regarding calling those abroad back home, came as a relief to him. However, the uncertainty over the decision has left him and his parents anxious. “We are worried because of the worsening situation in New York. Despite registering with the collector office and the government, there is no clear response. We learnt that thousands of Indian students from New York have applied to return and we are not getting a clear response from the government or even the Indian embassy,” said Bhavesh Upadhyay, Raj’s father and a businessman based in Ahmedabad. Similar is the situation of a city-based professor, Jean D’Souza, whose 20-year-old son is in New Jersey, pursuing his bachelors in Finance. “Despite having registered, there is no clarity on whether he will be able to take the next flight to India. Due to the lockdown, we haven’t been able to transfer funds as well and apart from his safety, his sustenance is equally a concern. However, there is no clear response from the Indian embassy or the government here,” said Jean. The Centre has arranged for a number of evacuation flights from foreign countries to Ahmedabad. These flights will be coming via Mumbai or Delhi airports from five different locations including Manila, Philippines; New York, USA; Singapore; London, England, and Kuwait. Parents of students stranded in foreign destinations other than these are also extremely worried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uncertainty-plagues-parents-of-students-stuck-abroad/articleshow/75610877.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 8, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: 8 injured in Neyveli boiler blast, 2 critical||Eight workers sustained burn injuries in a boiler blast at NLC India Limited’s thermal power station (TPS) II in Neyveli on Thursday. The cause of the accident could not be ascertained immediately. The company, however, suspects that excess heat and high pressure may have led to the explosion of the outlet unit of the boiler. Two of the eight injured are regular workers while others are contract workers. All the injured underwent first aid treatment at NLCIL Hospital and were referred to a private hospital in Trichy for advanced treatment. The condition of two contact workers who sustained 70% burns is said to be critical. Five firetenders fought for more than an hour to douse the fire. The company has constituted an expert committee to probe the reason for the explosion. It may be recalled that there was a minor fire accident at the conveyor belt in the TPS II two days ago. The TPS II has seven units, with a capacity of 210MW each. Due to the lockdown restrictions, only a section of the plant’s 2,000 workforce was on duty on Thursday. National Insurance Co, which is the lead insurer for Neyveli Lignite Corporation, said the public-sector entity has taken an all-risk insurance policy for Rs 35,000 crore. The all-risk policy covers mega-risk in many eventualities, including fire, explosion, earthquake and others. NLC has also taken a public liability insurance policy in which the any one accident limit (AOA) is up to Rs 5 crore. National Insurance said the company has taken a group personal accident (GPA) policy. Under GPA, medical insurance of up to Rs 5 lakh is available for employees, currently injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/8-injured-in-neyveli-boiler-blast-2-critical/articleshow/75611875.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Homemakers stitch face shields for cops on roads||KOLKATA: A group of homemakers in the city have been keeping themselves busy making face shields for cops. An initiative by Active Citizens Together for Sustainability (ACTS), 5,000 such face shields have been gifted so far. And more are being made. The homemakers are paying for the project out of their own pockets. It started with Pankaj Maloo, an ACTS volunteer who gifted a few face shields to some cops on the street. “We were delivering food packets to the needy and the cops helped us a lot. We realized that these cops had to be out on the roads and these frontline warriors needed the shields,” said Maloo. He and his wife Shashi then got a close network of 12 friends, all homemakers, for the project, titled ‘Karuna Kawach’. Maloo got the materials – OHP sheets (150 micron-thick plastic), glue guns and rubber bands — with the help of police and delivered them to the homemakers. “I have made around 400 shields so far. In fact, my son and my mother-in-law, too, have been helping me. I feel this is a fruitful engagement during the lockdown,” said Dipika Bafna, homemaker from Bhowanipore. Easy-to-make and costing less than Rs 10 per mask, ACTS has distributed 5,000 of them among cops from Kolkata and Bidhannagar, as well as among civic workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/homemakers-stitch-face-shields-for-cops-on-roads/articleshow/75611228.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 8, 2020||Surat||‘Island strategy’ devised for Covid hotspot Limbayat||Surat: Cases of coronavirus continue to surface from Limbayat zone in Surat city with as many 14 more reported on Thursday. Out of the total 782 Covid-19 cases in the city, 308 alone are from Limbayat zone. Thus, Limbayat accounts for about 40 per cent of the total cases in the city. “Limbayat zone is a major hotspot. We have decided to adopt an ‘island strategy’ for Limbayat zone. Entry and exit points of Limbayat zone will be sealed and people entering and exiting the zone will be monitored. It will be treated as an island,’’ municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said on Thursday. “We will launch a massive door-to-door health surveillance in Limbayat zone in the next two to three days. We will adopt an APX surveillance system under which letter A will be written on the front wall of a house where we find cases of acute respiratory infection or any other symptoms among members of the family. We will write P if there are elders with co-morbid conditions in the house and X if nothing is suspected,’’ Pani said. He further said from Friday late night, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) will be shut and that no vegetable vendors and shops will be allowed to do business across the city until May 14. “Some vegetable vendors had tested positive for Covid-19 in different parts of the city and coronavirus cases were also reported from AMPC. This is why this decision has been taken. I request citizens to help us contain the virus,” Pani said. On Thursday, 29 more Covid-19 patients were discharged in Surat. A total of 376 Covid-19 patients have been discharged so far in Surat. “On Thursday, 14 patients were discharged from New Civil Hospital (NCH) and 15 from Covid Care Centre at Samras Hostel. City’s recovery rate has been increasing day by day,’’ the municipal commissioner said. Meanwhile, the city witnessed highest single day spike of 40 Covid-19 cases and death of two persons due to the infection on Thursday. Premji Lakhani, 63, a resident of Ashwani Kumar Road, succumbed to the deadly virus on late night on Wednesday. He was a heart patient and admitted to NCH on May 1. Mussir Shaikh, 53, a resident of Navsari Bazaar, passed away at Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital on Thursday. He was suffering from diabetes and admitted to hospital on April 29. This took coronavirus death toll in the city to 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/island-strategy-devised-for-covid-hotspot-limbayat/articleshow/75610416.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC permits abortion on Covid-positive teen||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday directed a team of doctors at Civil Hospital to terminate the 24-week pregnancy of a 14-year-old rape survivor, who is also Covid-19 positive. Justice V B Mayani in his order said, “Doctors shall take due care and caution for the health and best interest of the victim. Once the termination of pregnancy is performed and completed, the victims shall continue to take treatment for her good health for the period as per the opinion of the doctors.” The court has sought a report from the doctor next week, and ordered them to take DNA samples of the foetus for further police investigation, because the victim’s brother-in-law is accused in this case. The HC ordered the abortion after the survivor and her elder sister, who is a petitioner before the high court, gave written consent to advocate Hardik Dave, who was assigned the case by the legal aid committee. The HC had sought consent from the victim and her elder sister on the insistence of the doctors, because the victim was also tested Covid-19 positive, though she did not have any co-morbid condition. However, the doctors opined that besides the usual risk, what they could not make predictions about this case as the because of the victim’s Covid-19 position. Before issuing directions, the HC took into consideration earlier orders passed by the high court as well as by the Supreme Court in cases in which the rape survivors’ age was 14 years and the pregnancy was beyond 23-24 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-permits-abortion-on-covid-positive-teen/articleshow/75610871.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Click photos of those not wearing masks: Police||KOLHAPUR: City police have appealed to the citizens to click photographs of people who are not wearing face masks in public places and send the images to the police control room. The photographs will then be forwarded to the civic body and a fine of Rs 500 will be slapped on each errant citizen. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, "People should wear masks whenever they are coming out of their homes. It is mandatory for everyone. Police and civic officials alone cannot guard the entire city, and now people will have to come forward to help. They can keep a watch on businessmen, shop owners, commuters, among others and click their photographs if they are found not wearing a mask. The same photograph can be sent on our WhatsApp number 7218038585 with the detailed address." He added, "We will forward the details to the KMC and the civic body will impose the fine. If the person is found violating the rule on more than two occasions, we will book him/her and ensure they get a jail term for the crime. This is a testing time for all and everyone should join the fight against coronavirus by following the rules."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/click-photos-of-those-not-wearing-masks-police/articleshow/75609256.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||After booze session, buddies murder man||Varanasi: A chicken trader Manish Sonekar (26) was brutally hacked to death by his two friends after the trio consumed liquor at a vacant plot on Shivpur by-pass road under the same police station on late Wednesday night. SP city Dinesh Kumar Singh said that one of the accused Suresh Sonkar had been arrested from the spot while the other accused Kaku Sonekar was arrested on Thursday morning. Old enmity between the families of Manish and Kaku is being speculated as reason behind his killing. Manish, a resident of Sonekar basti used to run a chicken shop in local vegetable market of Shivpur area. Police probe found the entire episode of consumption of liquor and clash between trio recorded in hospital CCTV located along Shivpur by-pass road. Police said that Manish, Suresh and Kaku had gathered on a vacant plot near hospital. After a few minutes Suresh fell unconscious due to excess consumption of liquor. However, Kaku continued attacking Manish with a brick. When Manish fell on ground after suffering serious head injuries Kaku dragged him to another plot and kept him attacking for several minutes. Later, he fled the scene. After the assailants were also identified with the help of CCTV Manish’s uncle Rajendra Sonekar lodged a named FIR against Kaku and Suresh. The body was sent for postmortem. In his complaint Rajendra mentioned that a dispute over eve-teasing between Kaku and Manish led to enmity between their families, although Manish and Kaku had become friends after sometime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/after-booze-session-buddies-murder-man/articleshow/75608437.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Cannot use defamation as tool to threaten media, says HC||Chennai: Powerful politicians and corporates are using defamation cases against media as ‘tools of intimidation’, and the higher judiciary will not renege on its duty to protect the fundamental rights, the Madras high court has said. Holding that mere inaccuracies in reporting cannot justify prosecution of media for defamation, Justice G R Swaminathan quashed defamation proceedings initiated against the Economic Times and two journalists on Tuesday. Fortifying further the fundamental right to freedom of expression, the judge said: “An activist role will have to be played by the higher judiciary because it is a matter of record that criminal defamation proceedings have become a tool of intimidation before corporate bodies and powerful politicians whose pockets are tunnel deep and whose hands are long, even media houses having good resources have capitulated.” There can always be a margin of error, Justice Swaminathan said, adding that the permissible width of the margin will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. “The media can avail (itself of) this defence whether the complainant is a public official or a private entity. Mere inaccuracies in reporting cannot justify initiation of prosecution.” The defamation case was instituted by V V Minerals taking exception to an article published on July 1, 2015 in the Economic Times. Though it was authored by freelance journalist Sandhya Ravishankar, it named her husband also as an accused, and a magistrate court issued summons for four people, including the Economic Times editor and grievances redressal officer. Quashing the case, Justice Swaminathan pointed to two inherent errors in the proceedings. One, none of the four lived within the jurisdiction of judicial magistrate-1, Tirunelveli. Rapping the magistrate for issuing the summons without application of mind, the judge said: “A mere look at the cause title would have revealed that the accused are not residing within the jurisdictional limits of the judicial magistrate.” Two, since the accused have not been named in person with appropriate description, the court must have returned the defamation complaint itself as defective. “In this case, the trial magistrate appears to have mechanically taken cognizance of the offences even without noting that the grievances redressal officer and the editor of Economic Times have not been named in person at all.”  The judge also pointed out that the article was published only in the wake of the notice being issued by the first bench of the Madras high court on a PIL relating to irregularities in beach sand mining. “When the Hon'ble First Bench thought it fit to issue notice based on the allegations made by a litigant and when it raised a public question, the media is certainly entitled to carry a story on it,” said Justice Swaminathan. The newspaper and the author of the article have shown their bonafides by reaching out to Vaikundarajan and publishing his response in the very same article, the judge said. Underscoring the role of higher judiciary vis-a-vis freedom of expression, the judge said mere singing paeans to freedom of press will not be not enough if one cannot go to its rescue when the its right is faced with a serious threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cannot-use-defamation-as-tool-to-threaten-media-says-hc/articleshow/75611889.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Migrant ends life at quarantine centre in Rajasthan||JODHPUR: A migrant labourer, who returned from Ahmedabad and was under quarantine at his village, committed suicide at the quarantine centre in Deda village under Balesar police station of the district on Wednesday night. He was found hanging from the ceiling of the room on Thursday morning after which other inmates of the centre informed the in-charge who informed the police and other officials. According to Rajuram, DSP (Balesar), Devaram (30) from Deda village had been working in Ahmedabad and had returned with some other persons of his village on April 29. “He along with all others had been quarantined at a government school of the village since his arrival. Five persons had been discharged from the centre the same night, while five others, including Devaram were there in the centre,” said the officer. Police have registered a case and are yet to ascertain the cause of his committing suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrant-ends-life-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75611885.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||9 new Covid-19 cases take dist’s tally to 77||Varanasi: The district’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases reached to 77 after nine more persons were found infected on Wednesday. Of these nine, eight were infected by coming in contact with Covid-19 positive persons who are now being treated at DDU district hospital and SSL hospital of BHU. The number of infected TJ attendees and persons infected by coming in their contact reached to 19. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed that of 171 samples sent to KGMU Lucknow in past three days, reports of 162 were received by the CMO on Wednesday. CMO Dr VB Singh said that of the nine new cases, two are son and daughter-in-law of a 75-year-old person from Madanpura hotspot who was in contact of infected TJ attendee from Karnataka and was tested positive on May 3. With the confirmation of Covid-19 in his two family members, the total number of infected TJ attendees and those infected after coming in their contact reached to 20 in the district. Other six infected persons are two brothers, two sisters-in-laws, nephew and niece of a 50-year-old powerloom weaver of Jaitpura, who was tested positive on April 30 after being referred to BHU hospital from Jamia hospital on April 28, said the CMO adding that the weaver had been suffering from chest congestion. A woman of Lullapura, under treatment at BHU hospital for some health complication, has also been found infected, said the CMO adding that her contact history is being traced. Persons from Sujabad, Shivajinagar, Gola Cholapur, Jergular Hartirath, Badi Piyari, Kashipura, Seer Gowardhanpur and other hotspot areas, who were tested positive after coming in contact of infected people, have been retested negative, he said. The repeat samples of L-2 facility hospital’s 51 staff, also tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/9-new-covid-19-cases-take-dists-tally-to-77/articleshow/75584110.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hopes crushed, migrants board trains for Madhya Pradesh & Uttar Pradesh||PUNE: Thousands of migrant workers began their journeys back home to villages in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh from Pune and several other cities in Maharashtra on Shramik Express trains on Wednesday and Thursday. A train, carrying 1,093 workers, left for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh from Urali Kanchan station near Pune on Thursday and will reach its destination on Friday evening. Anup Patel from Anuppur district in Madhya Pradesh was unusually withdrawn. “I am going home, but I don’t have a job and I don’t know whether I will get one there. It is stressful,” he told TOI. He was among those going to Rewa from Pune. They were brought to the Uruli Kanchan railway station near Pune by bus. They were filled with many worries even though they waved at Railways and district administration officials from inside their bogies as the train pulled out. LuvKush Kevat from Sarangarh village in Anuppur, said, “I was working in a company in Pune till the coronavirus ruined it. I have not been paid for two months and have no money. There are no jobs either. It is better to be with the family and do something else,” Kevat told TOI. Not all could board the train. Dinesh Kumar from Anjani village was told his name was not on the list and he could travel only after two days. “I came to Pune in February and was working as a mechanic here. I got my payment but my parents want me to come home,” he said. The workers said they paid no fare and were given ‘poha’ and a bottle of water when the journey started. They were promised dinner in the train. Another worker, who requested anonymity said, “ I hope to get a bus to or some transport to reach my village. My family is big and I was the only earning member. I want to start working. There must be a system so that people like us don’t have to leave their homes to work in far-off places.” Elsewhere in the region, as many as 1,125 people from Ahmednagar and 1,306 migrants from Bhusawal left for Uttar Pradesh, while 130 stranded pilgrims started by bus from Manmad for Punjab. Another 520 passengers from Bhusawal and Jalgaon, 185 from Dhule, 88 from Akola, 513 from Buldhana had sought rail transport. All passengers were screened for health conditions. Social distancing norms were followed on the platforms and in the coaches. Hand sanitizers were placed inside for their use. Every coach had only 54 passengers. State food and civil supplies minister and Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal helped with the arrangements, Ranjit Singh, a traveller to Punjab, said. A train with 1,223 people left for Bhopal from Aurangabad on Thursday and another will start for Jabalpur on Friday with workers from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand. They worked in Aurangabad district and in Nanded, Osmanabad, Jalna and Beed. (With inputs from Abhilash Botekar & Prasad Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hopes-crushed-migrants-board-trains-for-mp-up/articleshow/75612574.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Reduce gap in drinking water supply: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed officials to speed up hand pump and tubewell repairs. The chief minister, while reviewing drinking water situation in the state, asked the officials to prepare an action plan to reduce the gap in drinking water supply in areas where there is an interval of more than 48 hours. He said people should get drinking water at least once in 48 hours. He said the need for water will increase in summer and in such a situation uninterrupted supply was the priority of the state government. Gehlot said approval of hand pumps and tube wells be issued wherever required and repairs should be completed on time. Along with water conservation, emphasis should also be given on water harvesting. The chief minister said a large number of workers were unemployed during the lockdown. In such projects, the possibilities of employing them under NREGA should be explored in projects under the Public Health Engineering Department, Water Resources and Energy Department. The CM directed to hold weekly review meeting at the level of district collector and principal secretary of PHED and monthly at the state-level by the chief secretary. He asked for timely disposal of complaints related to drinking water. He also directed to restore power supply by repairing the power lines which have been damaged due to the recent storm. PHED minister B D Kalla apprised the meeting of the steps taken to ease water shortage. Principal secretary, PHED, Rajesh Yadav said the works of installing new tube wells, damaged pipelines and replacement of faulty pumpsets are being done on the recommendation of the district collectors. He informed the meeting that for the Prithviraj Nagar Yojana in Jaipur city, approval of Rs 295.50 crore has been issued in the month of March. Over two lakh people will be benefited from this scheme. Principal secretary, water resources, Naveen Mahajan said for the first time in 70 years, Punjab has completed the renovation work of canals of 20km area of Sirhind Feeder. The renovation work was started on this feeder in the Rajasthan region as well, but due to the lockdown, the work could not be completed. BOX Review meet by district ministers on May 9 Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed all ministers in-charge of the districts to hold review meetings on the Covid-19 situation in their respective districts through video conference. The ministers would discuss with the district collectors, SPs and other district-level officials on the strategy to be adopted on completion of the third phase of lockdown, contingency plan for drinking water and employment of maximum number of workers under MGNREGS and other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reduce-gap-in-drinking-water-supply-cm/articleshow/75611884.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Shorter business hours in Lonavla||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Lonavla Traders Association (LTA) has decided to keep shops in its jurisdiction open from 9am to 1pm from Friday onwards to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Dilip Gupta, president of the association, said no person has been found to be positive for Covid-19 in Lonavla yet but people still need to be careful. — Siddharth Gaikwad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shorter-business-hours-in-lonavla/articleshow/75612565.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 suspect dies at isolation ward in Ballia||Varanasi: A 65-year-old labourer from Shahpur village in Ubhao area of Ballia district died at the isolation ward of the district hospital on Wednesday after suffering from respiratory problems, a symptom similar to that of Covid-19. The labourer identified as Rajnarain had managed to return home from Rajasthan on May 5. As he suffered difficulty in breathing, he was admitted to the isolation ward at Ballia district hospital, where he died on Wednesday. The epidemic nodal officer Dr Jiaul Huda said that Rajnarain’s sample had been sent to BRD Medical College of Gorakhpur for coronavirus test. His body will be kept preserved at the mortuary till the report arrives. The test report is expected on Thursday, after which postmortem will conducted. Rajnarain’s medical history revealed that he had suffered from tuberculosis few years ago but had recovered from it, added Dr Huda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-suspect-dies-at-isolation-ward-in-ballia/articleshow/75608470.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||2 trains with 2,400 students leave for Bihar from Kota||Jaipur: The state government on Thursday sent two trains to Bihar from Kota carrying 2,400 students. “We sent a train from Kota to Saharsa (Bihar) and another from Kota to Arrah (Bihar) carrying 1,200 students each train,” transport commissioner Ravi Jain said. Since movement of trains was allowed by the Centre, the state government so far has sent almost a dozen trains to various parts of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. Amid the decision of the state to ban the entry of Rajasthani migrants and movement of labourers within the districts, the state government clarified that they will re-think and chalk out the modalities to see if they can accept the arrival of migrant workers from Rajasthan coming by trains. “Whatever trains we have planned might run from Friday onwards. However, we will not accept other trains to Rajasthan for the time being,” said a senior officer of the transport department. Chief secretary DB Gupta asked all collectors, SPs and SDMs to ensure that nobody enters or leaves the state. Senior officers have been asked not to issue passes to people willing to go out except for medical emergencies or other valid reasons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-trains-with-2400-students-leave-for-bihar-from-kota/articleshow/75611902.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Divyang rights body wants hike in NREGA work days||Edited (320) Jaipur: Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh vice-president Hemant Bhai Goyal on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to seek their help in increasing the number of days of work for persons with disabilities (PwDs) under the MGNREGA scheme to 125-150 days from 100. In a letter to the chief minister and the deputy chief minister, Goyal wrote, “In view of COVID-19 crisis in the state, you are requested to consider increasing the number of days of work for PwDs from 100 days to 125-150 days. It cannot be denied that specially-abled persons living in rural areas are more affected by unemployment and poverty in this situation compared to the ones living in urban areas.” He had also requested to reserve some works under MGNREGA scheme for the persons with disabilities (PwDs). However, the state’s MGNREGA department had already identified around 20 ‘soft activities’ for them. These include plantation work, distributing drinking water to workers, taking care of labourers’ children and nursery activities etc. Earlier, Goyal had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot requesting them to provide Rs 1,000 ex-gratia for three months, as announced by the Centre in view of Covid-19 crisis, to even those who are 40% physically challenged. He had also registered a complaint with the chief commissioner for disability, government of India on the issue of non-payment of Rs 1,000 ex-gratia to persons with 40% disability, in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The matter was forwarded to director, disability, government of India, for taking appropriate action in the matter. “As per sub-section 3C of Section 24 of the Divyang Rights Act, 2014, even those persons with 40% disabilities are eligible for government relief or assistance at the time of natural or man-made disasters following guidelines of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities,” Goyal had stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divyang-rights-body-wants-hike-in-nrega-work-days/articleshow/75611899.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar cane farmers await final payments||KOLHAPUR: Lakhs of sugar cane farmers in Maharashtra are waiting for the final payment by the sugar mills that collectively owed Rs 1,169 crore to the farmers when the crushing season came to an end a month back. Sugar commissioner’s office had granted licences to 141 factories for 2019-20 crushing season. According to the information provided by the office, while 71 sugar factories in Maharashtra have paid full fair and remunerative payment (FRP) to the farmers, 70 are yet to make the full FRPs. Of them, 29 factories have cleared 60% bills while 22 mills have paid up to 80% of the bills. Moreover, 20 factories have cleared 99% of the farmers’ bills. Sugar factories in Maharashtra crushed a total of 501 lakh metric tonne sugar cane and the estimated sugar production is around 5,580 lakh quintal. The office of sugar production has finalized the total FRP-based payment to the tune of Rs 9,343 crore. By the end of February, Rs 1,169 had not been paid to the farmers. Sources in the sugar sector said the entire business came to a standstill in mid-March because of the coronavirus pandemic. P G Medhe, a sugar expert from Kolhapur, said the functioning of all the sugar mills was stopped as workers preferred to stay home. Also, transportation was affected in the second week of March. “Factories are not in a position to complete the work because of the pandemic,” he said. Officials in sugar commissioner said they had not issued notice to the factories for their failure to make the FRP-based payments. According to the Sugarcane Control Act, factories must make full payment to the farmers within 14 days of taking the crop for crushing. Sugar commissioner Saurav Rao told TOI that his office was addressing the issue and would find some solution. Sources in industry, however, said that government is unlikely to act tough considering the unusual situation. The previous government, led by Devendra Fadnavis, had issued notices to almost 100 factories in the last crushing season for their failure to make payments. Notices were issued under the Revenue Recovery Act then. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti, who has been leading cane farmers in western Maharashtra, said he would soon take up the issue with officials and ministers after the lockdown is lifted. Medhe said that factories were already facing difficulties because of a lower statutory minimum price. Medhe said that several factories were not able to pay salaries and make payments to suppliers. He said the sugar factories in Maharashtra have a massive burden of around Rs 3,000 crore, which includes farmers’ unpaid bills and other liabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-cane-farmers-await-final-payments/articleshow/75609282.cms||Satyajit Joshi
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Is Gujarat sitting on a Vizag-like disaster?||GANDHINAGAR: Earlier this week, residents of western parts of the city has sleepless nights as a noxious smell filled the air, sparking panic of a gas leak. While the source of the stench was traced to Adalaj by the GPCB, the Visakhapatnam gas tragedy has shifted the focus to a far greater problem in Gujarat. There are over, 10,000 hazardous chemicals units and over 400 red-category “most hazardous units” in Gujarat. A majority of these have been shut down rather abruptly because of the lockdown and there is the possibility of chemicals lying unattended in these units. Environmental activists say the Visakhapatnam incident is a wake-up call for Gujarat, as the state has the highest concentration of hazardous chemical units in the country. “Like Visakhapatnam, all these units were abruptly shut for the lockdown. Not a single authority has made public any action plan on how these units ought to be shut. According to standard procedure, many of these units would take a month’s time to shut down,” said Rohit Prajapati, an environmental activist and engineer. He alleged that neither the directorate of industrial safety and health (DISH) nor the Gujarat pollution control board (GPCB) has inspected such chemical units which have been shut down abruptly. Prajapati warned, “Nobody knows what the current status of these units is. Are they at the tipping point of a disaster like Visakhapatnam or Bhopal gas tragedy? People living around chemical plants in Gujarat are at God’s mercy.” P M Shah, director, DISH said that when the lockdown came into force, hazardous units were allowed 72 hours to effect a shutdown. “We have asked all factories to maintain staff for safety of chemicals and plants. Plants which need continuous functioning have been given permission,” the official said. He further said that the state government has also allowed 12-hour shifts to address manpower issues to keep plants safe and there has been no emergency so far. When asked what action has been taken to check on safety at chemicals in units, her said, “We will ask factories to check their styrene and other storage facilities and safety aspects. We will issue the necessary instructions with the Visakhapatnam incident in mind. GSDMA and local authorities are supposed to take action. People can approach local authorities in case of any emergency. GPCB can also take action.’’ A V Shah, member secretary, GPCB, said, “DISH is responsible for maintaining security of all kind of plants. Our mandate is to control pollution. After the Vishakhapatnam incident, we have ordered status checks on all major chemical storage units and equested DISH and the local authorities to check industrial safety of these units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/is-gujarat-sitting-on-a-vizag-like-disaster/articleshow/75610870.cms||Kapil Dave
May 8, 2020||Udaipur||Social distancing part of tribal culture in south Rajasthan||UDAIPUR: Social distancing in urban areas is not easy as most people stay in close proximity. However, it is an ordinary way of life in tribal hamlets of south Rajasthan including Udaipur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh and Rajsamand. Tribal communities in the division are unique and are capable of living in extremely worst conditions. “Our tribal districts are inhabited by Bhils, Meenas, Garasiyas, Charpotas, Ninamas and few other categories. The main occupation of these people is agriculture. They live small one-room huts known as ‘tapra’ which lie scattered all over the area,” says Shri Krishna Jugnu, a historian and ardent traveler. The house consists of a room with open veranda and having mud wall or split bamboo wall plastered with mud, roof is thatched either with grass or with handmade kailu (terracotta) tiles. “The tribal community is poor, but they are known to have the skills to survive in the bare minimum. As per tribal custom, children are married off early and it is a general tradition that after marriage every couple settles down in a separate ‘tapra’ of their own as they do not live in joint families,” Kalpana Dindhor, a government official said. “Our people are known for their will power and sensitivity towards social conditions. They are simple, rule abiding by nature and have a strong live and let live policy,” said ex-MP Raghuveer Meena. People of one tribe live in a particular group in hamlets and their houses are situated in distance to one another, most of them on hillocks. The house is quite airy and have proper ventilation, they have open ‘aangan’ so that inmates get ample sunshine during winters. “Social distancing have been a part of our traditions for years and the people have strong sense of personal space and so even though they live together in a locality, they maintain distance and do not interfere in each other’s matter with exception to emergencies,” Meena said. “Though there has been an increase in the number of progressive farmers in the region, most of the tribal ones are marginal farmers with small land holdings. Their first priority is to produce grains (wheat or maize) so much so that they can survive for a year. They are not too demanding and hence this tendency in agriculture too may help them to survive the tough times when food is scarce,” Sudhir Verma, a senior official of the agriculture department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/social-distancing-part-of-tribal-culture-in-south-raj/articleshow/75611892.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Major fire breaks out in spinning mill||COIMBATORE: Machinery, yarn and cotton were gutted in a major fire that broke out in a spinning mill at Ekkathanvalasu near Vellakoil in Tirupur district on Thursday. The mill, owned by Kathiresan, remained shut due to the lockdown. When the villagers saw smoke billowing out from the mill, they informed the fire and rescue department. Immediately, firemen from Vellakoil, Kangeyam and Kodumudi reached the spot and started to douse the fire. The fire was put off after a few hours of struggle. The Vellakoil police have registered a case. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/major-fire-breaks-out-in-spinning-mill/articleshow/75611901.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Archdiocese distributes farm produce||KOCHI: Sahrudaya, the charitable arm of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese, has launched a project, Madhurakani, to collect and transport farm produce from areas of the archdiocese where they are in plenty to areas where there is a shortage of such produces. The produces are distributed for free in such areas. The project aims to avoid wastage of farm produce in areas where they are abundant and to make them available to those who want it. “We collect the produces from the parishes in the archdiocese where there is an abundance of such produces. Regions, like those in coastal areas are short of produces like jackfruit, but the people there really like such fruits. We are planning to transport produces from Muringoor to North Paravur and Manjapra to Vayalar over this weekend,” said Sahrudaya director Fr Joseph Koluthuvallil. Sahrudaya has already started conducting collection drives at parishes in Angamaly area. “The parishioners voluntarily bring the produces to their parish church. From there they are segregated and send to parishes in the eastern area. The produces are distributed for free from the churches there,” said Fr Koluthuvallil. The priest said that they have been getting a good response from the people and a collection drive at Mookkannoor the other day saw people turning up with produces like mangoes, jackfruits, papaya, vegetables, bananas, tuber crops, etc. “The premises of Mookkannoor church was filled with produces within hours as people who cultivate on their own turned up with fruits and vegetables. Even those from other religions brought produces to the church,” said Fr Koluthuvallil. He said that the produces were then transported to parishes in Cherthala area. “The project aims at a timely collection and supply. We are planning to implement the project in 50 parishes in the initial stage,” said Fr Koluthuvallil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/archdiocese-distributes-farm-produce/articleshow/75609310.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chennai||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75611914.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Puducherry||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614092.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Workers drop home visit for jobs at Hadapsar building site||PUNE: A group of 10 construction workers from Uttar Pradesh has cancelled plans to return to their villages. They will now stay in Pune where they expect better days after lockdown III opened construction activities in the green zones. This TOI photographer spotted them walking on the Katraj Dehu-Road bypass at Chandani Chowk. “We are going to Katraj-Undri-Hadapsar area. We hear a lot of construction is underway in that area. The state government has decided to permit building activity in some areas and builders and contractors are recruiting labourers. We expect brighter days ahead,” they said. Rajendra Verma (22) said they come from the same village and are either blood relatives or close friends. “We migrated to Maharashtra in the last decade for work. We were working at a construction site in Talegaon Dabhade for the last one and a half years,” he said. When the lockdown was announced, they all lost their jobs. “The last two months tested our endurance. We ran short of money and food. Local residents supported us. When we heard that the government was facilitating the return of migrant workers to their native places, we started preparing. But the government decided to allow construction activity and our lives became brighter,” Verma said. His friend Sundar, who works at a construction site in Hadapsar, called them saying the contractor was recruiting and there were jobs if they reached Hadapsar. “I talked to my group and we all thought that it was better to stay put here. There appeared no point in suffering hardships to return to our native place where we would be jobless even after spending a fortnight in quarantine,” he said. His wife Ranu said farm work in their village fetched Rs 100-150 a day. “Here, we get daily wages of Rs 500-600. We can support our families back home.” Rajendra’s friend Vinod Rathod (18) said he had arrived in Pune six months ago and has to repay the loan he took to shift to Pune. “What good it would have brought me had I decided to return to my village? Staying back appears to be a better option. I hope this nightmare ends and good days return. After all, I need money to get married too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/workers-drop-home-visit-for-jobs-at-hadapsar-building-site/articleshow/75612576.cms||Shyam Sonar
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake notes racketeer held in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS nabbed Natu Dabhi,, who had been on the run for four years, on Thursday morning from Vadodar village of Morva Hadaf taluka in Panchmahal. SP, ATS, Deepan Bhadran said Dabhi was the man behind a huge racket of fake Indian currency notes. An accused, Narsingh Ravat, who had been arrested on March 30, 2016 with FICN of Rs 1,41,80,000 face value, had spilled Dabhi’s name during interrogation. “Since then we had been on the lookout for Dabhi,” said an ATS official, who added that during interrogation Ravat had admitted that Dabhi had already been successful in circulating a significant amount of FICN in Gujarat. Acting on a tip-off, an ATS team went to Vadodar village in early morning on Thursday. “He was sleeping when we arrived. We had him tested for Covid-19 and he tested negative. We will now present him in court for remand,” said an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-notes-racketeer-held/articleshow/75610863.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Trichy||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614096.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Madurai||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614095.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Salem||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614097.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers stage protest||COIMBATORE: About 300 guest workers of an apparel unit near Avinashi in Tirupur district on Thursday burnt tyres on the Coimbatore-Salem national highways and staged a protest demanding the state government to take necessary steps to transport them back to their respective states. Police said around 2pm, the workers had gathered on the highways and tried to block the roads. As there were not many vehicles on the road, they burnt the tyres and bushes that were found on the roadside. Shortly, police rushed to the spot and convinced the workers after putting off the fire. The workers dispersed after both police and revenue officials assured them to make transport arrangements. The Perumanallur police registered a case against 15 workers and arrested them for instigating violence and violating the curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-stage-protest/articleshow/75611912.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||E-commerce players face manpower, zone issues||PUNE: The restriction of movement between green, orange and red zones as well as lack of adequate manpower are affecting e-commerce activities in the city. “When an order is accepted, the area is in the green/orange zone but, by the time the package is in transit, the status changes to red. These issues have caused a logistical mess,” said a senior executive of a top e-commerce company. The executive added that the e-commerce industry has taken steps to ensure zero contact delivery, yet it hasn’t been allowed to operate at full scale. Representatives said that not only are limited operations hitting small businesses but also wasting a chance to ensure social distancing. Even at locations open to deliveries, e-commerce players are facing manpower crunch due to travel restrictions on delivery partners. “Many of our executives live in low-cost housing or slums that are now in containment zones or near such zones. So, pincodes around these zones are also becoming non-serviceable,” said a manager with a firm that delivers multiple orders from non-branded stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-commerce-players-face-manpower-zone-issues/articleshow/75612578.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 8, 2020||Erode||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614094.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||TN raises retirement age of staff to 59, puts off Rs 5,000 crore payment||CHENNAI: Call it Covid-19 effect, a cash-strapped TN government on Thursday increased the retirement age of its staff from 58 years to 59 years to defer an outgo of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits for the current fiscal. More than 25,000 government employees were set to superannuate this financial year. The order has come into immediate effect and will be applicable to all government employees, teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided educational institutions, and employees of constitutional statutory bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those who are due for retirement on May 31 this year will now retire on May 31, 2021. “It will help experienced staff like doctors and paramedics stay with us for a year,” a source said. The move is also aimed at appeasing the 12 lakh-odd government employees and teachers, whose DA increase and leave surrender facility have been frozen for a year.The increase in retirement age has evoked mixed response from government employees. TN government officials’ union (TNGOU) and Tamil Nadu secretariat association have welcomed it. Secretariat association president Peter Anthonysamy said, “It is a welcome move, especially as it comes when a global pandemic is wreaking havoc.” But joint action council of Tamil Nadu teachers’ organisations and government employees’ organisations strongly condemned the move, saying it would adversely affect job opportunity of youngsters and delay promotions of senior employees. “It is an indirect attempt to ban recruitment for a year, akin to the five-year ban on direct recruitment enforced in 2001,” Jactto-Geo state coordinator T Anbarasu said. Jactto-Geo fears that the government, going by the recent recommendations of staff rationalisation committee, would even outsource some work, instead of filling up vacancies. The ban on direct recruitment was lifted in 2006. The Tamil Nadu government employees’ association has announced a state-wide protest on Friday in front of government offices seeking withdrawal of the order. Tamil Nadu cooperative department association president M Soundararajan, said, “The increase in age of superannuation will leave youngsters distressed. There were talks of giving one-year extension to employees in essential services. We never expected extension of service for all.” The MGR government raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years in Tamil Nadu in April 1979. “We needed to cut expenditure drastically. By freezing dearness allowance and leave surrender facility and lowering PF interest rate (to 8%), we saved Rs 7,850 crore annually, which is roughly 12% of the total salary bill of Rs 64,208 crore for the current fiscal. As regards Rs 5,000 crore retirement benefits (Rs 2,764 crore towards gratuity and Rs 2,221 crore for leave surrender), of 25,000 people who were expected to retire this year, we are only deferring payment by a year. It gives us some breathing time. It is not savings,” said a senior official in the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-raises-retirement-age-of-staff-to-59-puts-off-rs-5000cr-payment/articleshow/75614093.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mandi cess will be used for welfare of farmers, says government||JAIPUR: The state government on Thursday said the 2% user charge on purchase of agricultural produce in mandis will be used for the welfare of farmers. The collected cess will be deposited in the Farmers Welfare Fund of Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board which will be used only for activities and schemes of farmers’ welfare. A notification issued by the government on May 5 said the 2% cess will be charged by the mandi committees on agricultural produce bought or sold in the mandi area. Principal secretary (agriculture and cooperative) Naresh Pal Gangwar claimed that in Rajasthan, the mandi cess for notified agricultural commodities is 0.01% to 1.60%, while the rates in the adjoining states are comparatively higher. In addition to mandi cess, development fee is also being charged in states like Punjab, Haryana, he said. Gangwar said in the budget for the financial year 2019-20, taking the first major step towards ‘Ease of Doing Farming’ on the lines of ‘Ease of Doing Business’ for the farmers, Rs 1,000 crore welfare fund was announced and this fund will be used to provide the farmers with remunerative price for their produce. He said in compliance with the budget announcement, an amendment was made in the Agricultural Produce Market Act on December 16 last year. Through this fund, arrangement of funds for immediate payment of agricultural commodities being purchased at the support price, implementation of market intervention scheme in case of fall in market prices of agricultural commodities, promotion of pledge financing, agro processing, grant under Rajasthan agribusiness and agri exports activities have been taken up, he said. Gangwar informed that keeping in view the target of doubling the income of the farmers of the state by 2022, various activities of farmers’ welfare are to be carried out from the fund. Rajasthan Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agricultural Export Promotion policy is also being implemented with this fund. Under the policy, a grant of Rs 5.91 crore has been approved in 15 cases so far and 38 applications are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mandi-cess-will-be-used-for-welfare-of-farmers-govt/articleshow/75611917.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for selling fruits||Ahmedabad: As the government has imposed even more restrictions for the lockdown and is permitting only the sale of milk and medicines, police have also become more tough, and not even sparing a fruit seller. On Thursday at around 4am, a team of Karanj police was patrolling the Walled City area to ensure that no one was selling fruits or vegetables. They saw a man clandestinely selling fruits, the FIR states. He was holding an apple in one hand and was asking passersby if they wanted to buy fruits. The man took customers to his cart and sold fruits to them. The FIR filed by Karanj police said that the man did not have permission to sell fruits and was hence booked for disobeying government notification, besides violations under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-selling-fruits/articleshow/75610866.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||BHU lab functional again, 206 Covid-19 samples sent||Varanasi: After remaining closed for six days, microbiology lab of Banaras Hindu University restarted tests of Covid-19 samples with its full capacity from Wednesday late evening. Talking to TOI on Thursday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed, “The microbiology lab of BHU had been made fully functional with a new team of scientists and technicians. Immediately after its reopening, 157 samples collected from symptomatic people in the district had been sent there. So far number of new samples sent to the lab had reached to 206.” Before the lab was closed, 64 samples were pending for testing, he said adding that among total 206 samples which reached the BHU lab by Thursday afternoon, 64 test reports had been given to the district administration through chief medical officer and all were negative.” Following the test of a woman lab scientist of this lab, it had been closed on May 1 while all other 13 scientists and technicians had been quarantined. After sterilisation of the lab and training of new batch of scientists and technicians the approval of ICMR was sought by the officials following which the lab started functioning again. During the period of closure of the lab, the samples collected in the district were send to KGMU Lucknow. The DM said that a total of 303 samples had been sent to KGMU in past four days of which reports of 300 were received while three results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-lab-functional-again-206-covid-19-samples-sent/articleshow/75608511.cms||---
May 8, 2020||India||Schools may go for odd-even plan||NEW DELHI: lt could be ‘oddeven’ time for classrooms in schools post the national lockdown, which means there will be only 50% students on campus on any given day. As per the school reopening plan being considered by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), social distancing and more individualistic assessment and teaching-learning will be guiding principles likely to be announced by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) next week. Given concerns over a digital divide between schools as well as students, the Council is creating material and live interaction content to be aired through TV channels through an ‘each class, one channel’ strategy. Stating that final guidelines will be approved by the MHRD, NCERT Director Hrushikesh Senapaty said the idea is to create a conducive environment with involvement of all stakeholders and not compromise on the learning outcomes of students. The ministry asked the Council to prepare guidelines for schools as and when they resume campus activities. Various groups are at present finalising the guidelines and a draft is likely to be presented to the ministry on Monday. Apart from an ‘odd-even’ system to maintain social distancing, another option being deliberated upon is alternate week arrangements in line with the same concept. “NCERT is preparing the school reopening guidelines with social distancing norm as the guiding principle. The guidelines will also spell out what the students who stay back at home would do. One option is for schools to continue their online teaching and giving assignments and activities,” said Senapaty. The guidelines will elucidate responsibilities of every stakeholder — school management, teachers, parents and students. There will be guidelines for conduct of exams as well so that all students are not made to sit for the exams on the same day. “The guidelines will spell out the roles for parents such as what measures they have to take during sending their children to school and while travelling back home. Also the role of the school community and measures for students to follow,” added Senapaty. Among others, extracurricular activities, assemblies and team sporting events are likely to be curtailed. The government is also planning 12 educational channels dedicated to each class – from Class I to Class XII. “We have already started live interaction and NCERT is preparing class-specific material for each of the 12 channels to air, as directed by the government. This will to a large extent mitigate the disadvantage for kids without basic digital infrastructure,” said Senapaty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/schools-may-go-for-odd-even-plan/articleshow/75620457.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Some industrial units in Kolhapur MIDC yet to start operations||KOLHAPUR: Though the government has granted permission to industrial units and business activities in the district to operate during the third phase of the lockdown, many have not started operations in the MIDC area. While some industrial units have started their operations, most of them are busy cleaning their units and are carrying out maintenance activities. Most of the industries are yet to operate to their full capacity. D S Ingale, regional officer of MIDC, Kolhapur, said, “Till Wednesday evening, 4,010 industrialists from Kolhapur had applied online seeking approval to start operations. We are processing the applications fast and are ensuring that they get all the necessary permission to resume work.” MIDC, Pune, is yet to start its operations with full capacity. Orders are sent from Pune MIDC to the Kolhapur MIDC for completion. With no provision to export the material and the sealed inter-state borders, industrialists in Pune MIDC prefer to seek permission but not start operations. Many plants have opened to carry out pre-production activities. “Industrialists are battling to address issues such as relaxation in GST, service tax to units in MIDC, salaries of employees through provident fund, package to MSME sector and granting loan and lower interest rate which will help in reviving the industrial activities,” Sanjay Shete, chairman of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/some-indl-units-in-kolhapur-midc-yet-to-start-operations/articleshow/75609318.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 8, 2020||Salem||Tasmac queue tokens given out in govt school in Salem||When the crowd surged in front of a Tasmac outlet in a village in Salem district on Thursday, the official machinery thought it fit to shift token distribution for the tipplers to a nearby government school that was about 500 metres away from the outlet. The tipplers were asked to queue up inside the campus of panchayat union primary school at Kamalapuram near Omalur, where Tasmac staff issued them tokens that were meant to ensure proper queue. The official apathy, which resulted in the school being turned into a liquor token distribution point, irked the residents of Kamalapuram. A group of agitated villagers took up the issue with police and Tasmac staff, who stopped the exercise after issuing tokens to about 300 people. “This is height of government apathy. If government authorities turn the school into sort of an extension of a Tasmac outlet, wont tipplers be emboldened to enter the campus at night and consume alcohol,” asked K Selvakumar, district coordinator of Palli Kalvi Pathukappu Iyakkam. It was in this school that the villagers queued up to cast their votes during the elections. Selvakumar also questioned the education authorities for agreeing to open the gates of the school for a non-academic purpose like this. Soon after the issue surfaced on social media, there was blame game among the officialdom. Senior Tasmac officials said they were not aware that the school was being used for token distribution and passed the bucks on local staff and police. “Tasmac staff were instructed only to issue tokens in front of the outlet. But it was local police who instructed them to shift token distribution to the playground of the nearby school since large number of people started gathering,” said G Vediyappan, district manager, Tasmac. Salem collector S A Raman said he has ordered a probe into the incident and sought a report. “I have sought an explanation from Tasmac as well as panchayat union officials. I have told education department officials to inquire and submit a report. Strict action will be taken based on the report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/in-salem-government-school-turns-tasmac-token-distribution-centre/articleshow/75611925.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 8, 2020||Madurai||HC adjourns plea against liquor shops||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday adjourned a plea challenging the state government’s decision to open Tasmac outlets from Thursday. In his petition, A Bonyface, a resident of Madurai, stated that despite the lockdown, there are violations in following social distancing due to which there is an increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state. The state government had on May 4 granted permission for opening Tasmac outlets across the state from May 7. This decision would pave way for the spread of Covid-19. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi adjourned the case for hearing to May 11. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-adjourns-plea-against-liquor-shops/articleshow/75587171.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||Over 1,500 stranded in city sent to J’khand, Raj by buses||Varanasi: Over 1,500 people from Rajashthan and Jharkand, who worked or were stranded in Varanasi due to lockdown, were sent back by buses on Thursday. Over 400 passes were issued to individuals willing to go back to their home states by their own vehicles. “As many as 11 buses with 317 passengers on board left for Bharatpur, the nodal centre for receiving passengers in Rajasthan. Likewise, 47 buses left with 1,432 passengers for Gandhva district of Jharkhand,” said DM Kaushal Raj Sharma. The administration had allotted Cantt Depot and Sampurnanand Sanskrit University ground as the boarding spots for passengers. They were screened and given food packets and water bottles before they started their journey. DM Sharma said that the list of 1,200 people, who want to return to their homes in Bihar, is ready. But the Bihar government made it clear that it would only allow trains and no other transport to enter the state. After talks with Bihar government, two trains from Varanasi to Patna and one other from Varanasi to Katihar have been sought to send the stranded people. “We are also in touch with the West Bengal government for sending around 900 of its natives back. Same process is in progress with Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other states,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-1500-stranded-in-city-sent-to-jkhand-raj-by-buses/articleshow/75608637.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Three accidents reported in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Three accidents were reported in urban and rural areas of Coimbatore district on Thursday. According to the Thondamuthur police, Hariharan of Vadavalli, Antony and Nithin, both from Ramanathapuram, went to their friend Ranjith Kumar’s house at Thondamuthur in a car on Thursday, where they consumed liquor bought from a Tasmac outlet. While returning , Ranjith Kumar, 27, who did not consume liquor, drove the car . When they reached near Puthupalayam Pirivu, the front tyre of the car burst and Ranjith Kumar lost control of the vehicle, which overturned. No one was injured in the accident. The Thondamuthur police registered a case. In the second incident, a 24-year-old youth and his friend suffered severe injuries when their motorcycle lost control and dashed against the wall of a crematorium at Athupalam here on Thursday. The injured were identified as N Vinith, 24, from Idayarpalayam and M Shahrukh Khan, 25, from Pollachi. The traffic investigation wing (TIW-west) of the city police said the duo was under the influence of alcohol and they were travelling towards Athupalam from Kuniyamuthur in a motorcycle. Vinith, who was riding the motorcycle, lost control of the vehicle and rammed into the wall of a crematorium at Athupalam. Vinith suffered head injuries and Shahrukh Khan also sustained injuries. The duo was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). In the third incident, an unidentified man fell on the road from his scooter as he was not able to ride his vehicle under the influence of alcohol near Thadagam on Thursday. The man was lying on the road side near his scooter and six liquor bottles were also found near the scooter. The villagers poured water on him and later, he resumed his ride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-accidents-reported-in-dist/articleshow/75611920.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Will form task force to attract cos looking to shift out of China: CM||Jaipur: The state government will constitute a task force to attract industries out of China, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said while taking feedback from industrial associations across the state. While the video conference with the industry representatives was intended to seek their views on lifting lockdown after May 17, industry association drew attention of the chief minister to their plight and made a long list of demands for their survival and revival. China has been facing global backlash for not giving enough information about the coronavirus and many countries are planning to shift their supply chains from China. Many states like Tamil Nadu and UP have formed task forces to woo companies looking to shift from the country. “We will form a task force to attract companies looking to shift base out of China,” said Gehlot after the suggestion was made by an industry representative. The industry bodies urged the chief minister that the government should expedite the payment due to the industry for the goods and services rendered. Similarly, they drew to the pending demands of the industry like removing fixed electricity charges and paying on actual consumption. Helping the industry pay April salary to workers, and stopping the exodus of migrant labourers were among the suggestions and request they made. “We agree with many of your demands because they are genuine, but the state currently has limited resources. We want the Centre to announce a stimulus package to provide you the relief,” added Gehlot. The industry representatives from Barmer, Bharatur, Bikaner, Banswara, Kota, Bhiwadi, Jaipur, Jodhpur, and many other districts joined the video conferencing. Some of them suggested that the government should make a risk assessment first before lifting the lockdown. Besides, the chief minister and the industries minister, several senior officials of the government such chief secretary D B Gupta, ACS industries Subodh Agarwal, ACS finance Niranjan Kumar Arya, ACS home department Rajeeva Swaroop, RIICO managing director Ashutosh Padnekar,and commissioner industries Muktanand Agarwal among others were present in the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-form-task-force-to-attract-cos-looking-to-shift-out-of-china-cm/articleshow/75611927.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Chhota Udepur has only two Covid-19 patients in hospital||VADODARA: A coronavirus patient in Chhota Udepur district was discharged on Thursday as her consecutive test reports turned out to be negative. Health officials said that of the 28 samples sent from Chhota Udepur on Wednesday, reports of 27 including the patient Sayma Khalpa (24) turned out to be negative. Khalpa was admitted on April 24 along with her husband Aspak Yusuf Khalpa after the couple contracted the virus from their family member Irshad Khalpa. While Sayma has been discharged, Aspak will remain under treatment as he could not give his sample on Wednesday. With Sayma getting discharged, only two patients now remain under treatment. The other patient has been identified as Uzair Ranger. Ranger, who was admitted before the couple, has tested positive for fourth consecutive time due to which health officials are also worried. The district had registered 14 cases of coronavirus since April 5 when a 60-year-old man had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-has-only-two-covid-patients-in-hospital/articleshow/75608512.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Varanasi||Super spreader trader sent to jail from hospital||Varanasi: The drugs wholesaler of Saptsagar medicine market, who proved to be super spreader of coronavirus in Varanasi, landed in the temporary jail created for epidemic offenders in Jagatpur area after getting discharged from DDU district hospital on Thursday. In Varanasi, where no new Covid-19 positive case was reported on Thursday till late evening, the series of discharging of cured positive cases from the hospitals continued. The medicine wholesaler was discharged from DDU district hospital’s isolation ward after getting cured. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that as an FIR was lodged against him and he was taken to temporary jail under judicial custody. This drugs wholesaler has been tested positive on April 25 when district administration ordered closure of drugs wholesale markets. Later he infected 12 more persons including four in his family, his employee, traders in neighbouring shops and customers. Due to it Madauli, Saptsagar, Maidagin Mahmoorganj and many other localities were declared hotspots. On April 30, an FIR against the drugs wholesaler was lodged with Manduadih police station under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC. The drugs wholesale market, which is among three depots of state including Lucknow and Ghaziabad and feeds semi-distributors and retailers of medicines across east UP, parts of Bihar and some other states, could be opened on May 4 with the condition of opening maximum 190 shops in the market in a day. Due to it, the medicine supplies to city retailers as well as other places could not normalise so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/super-spreader-trader-sent-to-jail-from-hospital/articleshow/75608747.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 8, 2020||Allahabad||Corona victim’s mother tests +ve for infection||Prayagraj: An 82-year-old woman tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Thursday, two days after her son died of the infection in Prayagraj. She is the sixth member of the family to test positive for novel coronavirus. The Lukerganj-based woman’s son was a civil engineer and was diagnosed with the virus on May 1. The 47-year-old man was Prayagraj’s first Covid-19 casualty and passed away at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital’s isolation ward on Tuesday night. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The 82 -year old mother of the civil engineer, who died of corona virus late on Tuesday night, tested positive for the infection on Thursday. A medical team had collected the swab sample of the man’s mother, while she was quarantined at a centre on Wednesday. Her sample tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The elderly woman was later shifted to the isolation ward of SRN Hospital for further treatment.” With Thursday’s development, Prayagraj’s tally of Covid-19 cases reached 16. Of these cases, one patient has been discharged and another has died of the infection. The remaining 14 patients are being treated at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and SRN Hospital. The civil engineer’s wife, mother-in-law and two other family members also tested Covid-19 positive last week. His wife (37 years) was first taken to the special hospital set up for Covid-19 patients in Kotwa and was later shifted to SRN Hospital’s isolation ward. Doctors said her condition was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/corona-victims-mother-tests-ve-for-infection/articleshow/75608983.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mumbai||6 in 2 cars held in Juhu trying to exit city||Six people, including two women, were arrested while allegedly attempting to leave the city in two cars without valid inter-state travel passes. The private cars were stopped on Juhu Tara Road during police bandobast. On inquiry, police found they were headed to Gujarat and Telangana. “All are Santacruz residents. They were stopped around 1.45am while trying to leave the city without passes from the Mumbai police commissionerate,” said a cop. They were booked under IPC and Epidemic Diseases and Covid-19 Acts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-in-2-cars-held-in-juhu-trying-to-exit-city/articleshow/75609330.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||2,500 bottles of local softdrinks seized||COIMBATORE: The food safety department seized 2,500 bottles of a local cool drink brand as they did not have manufacturing date and batch number printed on them. Officials suspect that the drinks may have been manufactured and packed before the lockdown period. A case was registered against the manufacturer under Food Safety and Standards Authority Act of 2006. Based on a WhatsApp complaint, officials conducted a raid at a godown in Thirumalayampalayam near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district on Thursday. An official said 2,500 cool drink bottles of different flavours were seized during the raid. They were carbonated drinks under the local brand name ‘Ilam Thulir’, which were sold at petty shops in the locality. Designated food safety officer Dr K Tamilselvan said, “When we examined the bottles that were kept for sale, they did not have any manufacturing date and batch number on them. This information was also mentioned in the WhatsApp complaint we received.” The department has asked people to always check for the manufacturing and expiry date before buying any edible product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-5k-bottles-of-local-softdrinks-seized/articleshow/75611931.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Storks visit lockdown couples waiting for IVF babies||CHENNAI: Weeks before the lockdown, IT employee Sundar, 32, and wife Rama, 28, (names changed) were quite uncertain about parenthood as fertility experts had advised the couple, which has been trying to have a baby for nearly a year, to give itself some more time. But the nationwide lockdown that upended thousands of lives turned out to a be blessing for them. By end of April, Rama had conceived naturally. The pair was among a few cases that city doctors have seen in the past 45 days conceiving naturally. The relative drop in stress levels due to work-from-home life and spending more time with each other could be reasons, doctors said. “We have seen about five to six patients in the last two months who have come to us and have had natural conception. Stress is an important factor and working couples hardly meet and spend time. So, during lockdown when you are at home, you have the time and you are assured you’ll get paid, the stress levels come down,” said Dr Priya Selvaraj, fertility specialist. “These are patients who came to us for preliminary investigation and are idiopathic cases where there are no known factors but infertile or having not much complications, or have been married for three or four years and they could not conceive and have just approached us for checkup. They have done laparoscopy or tube testing with us. We had prescribed ayurvedic tablets, progesterone and an ovulation induction drug and asked them to come back in June for treatment. So, probably if we wait longer, the easy cases may become pregnant on their own. We are also seeing unwanted pregnancies,” she added. Obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Uma Ram said they usually advise young couples to give themselves more time if they have no complication and have been trying only for a few months. “If the couple is in their mid to late 20s, there is no rush. They can give themselves time.” “But anybody in their mid-30s we certainly won’t tell them to wait for a year. If they are in their early 30s and have been trying for a year, we’ll do basic assessment on hormone levels, ovarian reserve and a sperm count for the husband before deciding based on what the couple wants,” she said. “Couples who approach for fertility treatment conceiving naturally later is possible because they are now at home and have no work shifts. They could spend more time,” Dr Uma Ram said. However, experts are mostly advising couples to take it easy for the time being and come back for an active treatment for infertility after June to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection in hospitals during the lockdown. Gynaecologist Dr Jaishree Gajaraj said most fertility treatment have been put on hold for nearly two months now as they are not emergency cases, and avoiding hospital visits could protect patients from contracting the virus. “We are only seeing emergency cases. Some centres are now doing initial assessment for couples and conducting blood tests, so that fertility treatment can be started in a month or so down the line. But even a simple treatment like prescribing medicines and asking them to come for a scan involves them visiting a scan centre. Even pregnancy appointments have been reduced,” she said. Dr Vijaya, director, Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG), Egmore, said they have cut the visits of pregnant mothers from every month to just four throughout the pregnancy period to protect them from contracting infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/storks-visit-lockdown-couples-waiting-for-ivf-babies/articleshow/75611937.cms||U Tejonmayam
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||11 killed as gas leaked while Visakhapatnam slept||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a pre-dawn disaster, at least 11 persons died and hundreds of others fell sick when styrene vapours leaked from a chemical plant in a thickly populated area of Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam on Thursday morning. The deceased included two minors. Styrene is a liquid hydrocarbon, which can leak at high temperature and evaporate easily into the atmosphere as vapour. The condition of 22 people, including 10 children, is said to be critical with senior officials fearing that the toll may rise further. Women and children were the worst affected. The AP government evacuated 10,000 people living within a radius of 5 km of plant. Eight hundred people were shifted to hospitals and many have since been discharged. Panic gripped Vizag city late in the night as rumours of another gas leak spread like wildfire. District fire officer J Mohan Rao told TOI that some pungent smell was coming from the plant aroud 10 pm indicating there was some leak. It subsided around midnight. The tragedy came on a day when Visakhapatnam reported seven more Covid-19 positive cases. As the dense fumes spread, many breached the containment zones to take shelter in safer places. The city has thus far reported 46 cases while 24 are still active. In fact, Gopalapatnam Society which is barely 1 km from the LG plant where the leak occurred, has been declared a Covid-19 red zone area. When the leak occurred, many from the red zone were forced to leave the area and rush to other parts of the city. The styrene leak occurred at the LG Polymers unit at RR Venkatapuram village between 2.30 am and 3 am and quickly spread over a radius of about 3 km, affecting at least five villages. By afternoon, the company had been booked for culpable homicide. LG Polymers, a subsidiary of LG Chemicals and part of South Korea’s LG Group, took over erstwhile Hindustan Polymers in 1997. LG Polymers Vizag plant manufactures plastics and plastic compounds like polystyrene, EP (expandable polystyrene) and EPC (enhanced plastic compounds). Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who rushed to the port city, announced an ex gratia of Rs 1 crore each to the kin of the deceased and a compensation package for the sick. Arogyasri medical insurance facility will be extended to all those affected by the styrene leak. Thousands of people, who woke up choking on Thursday morning, were seen running before sunrise to safer places and calling the police and the disaster response teams for help. Some of them could not tolerate the dense fumes and collapsed on roads, pavements and open grounds. Some fell unconscious inside their homes. RTC buses were also used to shift the affected. More than 25 ambulances and fire engines, besides medical staff of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation were involved in rescue operations. Sources said that 5,000 people complained rashes on the body and burning sensation in the eyes. As many as 316 people were admitted to hospitals. At least 10 main hospitals, including King George Hospital (KGH), soon turned into medical emergency centres treating scores of people, who fell unconscious, and hundreds of others with complaints of breathlessness, severe headache and nausea. The vapour leak was plugged within hours. At around 11 am, AP police chief Gautam Sawang said the vapour had been “neutralised.” LG Polymers began production after a gap of about 40 days following relaxation of lockdown norms. Officials said styrene leaked between 2.30 am and 3 am as the management was preparing to start the operations after lockdown relaxations. With thick, pungent fumes surrounding the area, many people locked themselves in the houses while some came out on the roads in an attempt to escape from the stench. But by dawn, the vapours covered many parts covering a radius of 5 km. An NDRF team from Pune landed in the city while ICMR deputed an expert medical team to study the health hazards of styrene on people. Several cattle, dogs, cats, birds too collapsed on the roads, while tree leaves were burnt. Massive relief and rescue operations were taken up and the government ordered opening of all private hospitals to meet the emergency. “We received information about the gas leak between 4 am and 4.30 am and deployed police along with ambulances. The exact cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained. We had evacuated more people from Venkatapuram and surroundings areas,” collector V Vinaychand said. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said LG Polymers India had requested for airlifting of 500 kg of a special chemical from Daman airport to Visakhapatnam, which will be useful in avoiding unforeseen reaction due to the leakage of styrene gas. The chemical has since been dispatched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/11-killed-as-gas-leaked-while-vizag-slept/articleshow/75612626.cms||Siva G
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Petrol, diesel to be dearer as govt hikes VAT||Jaipur: With revenues drying up because of lockdown, the state government on Thursday increased value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by 2% and 1%, respectively. As a result, the VAT has gone up to 38% on petrol and 28% on diesel. The increase of Rs 1.12 on petrol and 53 paisa on diesel is effective from Thursday midnight. This is the third increase during the lockdown period. On March 21, VAT on both fuels had gone up by 4%. On April 15, the state raised VAT 2% and 1%, respectively, on petrol and diesel. On Wednesday, the state government had levied 2% mandi tax on purchase of agricultural produce at mandis. In the last week of April, additional duty on liquor and beer was increased by up to 15% which was estimated to fetch extra revenue of Rs 800 crore. According to sources, VAT from sale of fuels had plunged by 75% during the lockdown and increase was to meet the revenue shortfall. The fight against novel coronavirus is proving to be a double whammy. While the government needs to spend more, the lockdown has collapsed tax revenues. Similarly, because of historic low prices of crude oil has also depleted the royalty revenue. Mining of construction materials like stones and bajri has also come down affecting the state exchequer. Major revenue sources of the government like stamp and registration have also been affected as there has been no sale and purchase during these days. Similarly, because industry has been shut down, the state goods and services tax has hit rock-bottom. “There is nothing much the government can do. On one hand it needs money to fight the epidemic and on the other it does not have the money. That’s why the government has to take such decisions even though they are unpopular,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petrol-diesel-to-be-dearer-as-govt-hikes-vat/articleshow/75611946.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||8 FIRs lodged against Tableeghi Jamaat members in Kanpur||KANPUR: Police have lodged eight FIRs against Tableeghi Jamaat members who had visited the city in the last 24 hours. So far, nine cases have been registered against them on the charges of flouting lockdown rules and spreading epidemic disease. The first case was registered against 13 jamaatis at Anwarganj police station on Tuesday. Among them, 13 belonged to Bijnor and one each to Prayagraj and Haryana respectively. Police had registered eleven cases against the jamaatis belonging to Banda, Delhi, Haryana and Bihar. They were later arrested from a mosque in Baripal town . A report was lodged against 16 jamaatis for visiting Macharia area. Of them 15 belong to Bijnor and one to Meerut . Similarly, cases were registered against 12 jamaatis at Badshahi Naka police station who had stayed at Bucharkhana Masjid in Quli Bazar area. Of them, 11 jamaatis belong to Nauchandi in Meerut and one to Shamli. Cases were also registered against three local jamaatis at the Gwaltoli police station who had visited Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi while another case was registered against a jamaatee, a resident of Gammu Khan ka Ahata under Colonelganj police station. Police lodged a case at Beconganj police station against a couple belonging to Maharashtra state who were found roaming around near Dada Miayan Chauraha. One member of the couple was found corona positive, and a woman, who had come in contact with the couple, also got infected. The couple had also visited Jajmau, Patkapur and Chamanganj areas. A total 80 cases were registered against the jamaatis in the city. As per police record, 11 jamaatis were found infected. It is being presumed that the other people who were found positive must have come in contact with them, said a police source .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-firs-lodged-against-tj-members-in-city/articleshow/75612247.cms||Anant Chandak
May 8, 2020||Mysuru||Quarantined contacts fume as Begur constable tests negative||MYSURU: Residents of Belattur in Hanur taluk of Chamarajanagar district heaved a sigh of relief as a constable attached to Begur police station, who had visited the village on Monday, tested negative for Covid-19. Thirty-seven primary and secondary contacts of the constable were quarantined after reports surfaced that the constable from Bengaluru had tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, the district administration sent 15 primary contacts of the constable back to the village as their samples tested negative for coronavirus. On Monday night, 18 primary contacts of the constable in the village were sent to a quarantine facility after lab results showed that the cop is positive. The village had become a containment zone. The fire department carried out a disinfection drive in the village. On Thursday, DC MR Ravi and SP HD Anand Kumar visited the village and allayed the fears of the residents. “The sample of the constable has been sent to Pune virology lab for further tests. The result is expected on Friday. We are awaiting results of 22 secondary contacts. If they too test negative, we will send them home from the quarantine facility,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/quarantined-contacts-fume-as-begur-constable-tests-negative/articleshow/75613160.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Allahabad||Three of a family found murdered||Prayagraj: A man, his wife and daughter were found murdered at their home in Andhi village, under the limits of Manda police station, in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning. The victims were identified as Nand Lal Yadav (50), his wife Chhabili Devi (48) and daughter Raj Dulari (16). IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “Three police teams have been formed to crack the case. We are trying to find out the motive behind the killings. Initial police investigation indicate that a domestic dispute might have been the reason.” According to reports, Yadav’s daughter-in-law had gone to her parents’ house following a tiff, after threatening the family of dire consequences. “While Nand Lal was sleeping near the field, Chhabili was sleeping at the main gate of the house and Raj Dulari was in a room of the house. His son Ram Bahadur had gone to the family’s old house in the same village to sleep,” said a police official. It was Ram Bahadur who spotted his father’s body near the field when he came back to the other house on Thursday morning. As he went closer to his house, he also found the bodies of his mother and sister. He cried for help and villagers informed the police about the killings. The attackers had slit the throat of all three family members and had broken the locks of the almirah and trunks, scattering several household items. “We are probing the case from all angles including family and property dispute,” said the IG. The villagers had initially protested while police were taking the bodies for postmortem examination. However, they ended their protest after being assured that police would nab the culprits soon. Taking note of the brutal attack, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked senior police officials to conduct investigation into the triple murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-of-a-family-found-murdered/articleshow/75609014.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Allahabad||HC PIL seeks home delivery of liquor||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday directed the state counsel to seek instructions (information) from the state government with regard to a PIL seeking closure of the sale of liquor from shops on grounds that social distancing was not being maintained. As per guidelines government, adhering to social distancing was mandatory at all places to check spread of Covid-19. Hearing a PIL filed by Sunil Choudhary, a social activist, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma directed to list this matter on May 12 for the next hearing. In the PIL, the court has been requested to direct the UP government to start online booking of liquor and its subsequent home delivery, if the economy so required. In the PIL, the petitioner has stated that he is not against the policy of the government to permit sale of liquor, but what perturbed him most was the violation of social distancing norms throughout the country in purchase of liquors from wine shops. In this backdrop, the petitioner requested the court to direct stopping of sale of liquors from shops. Instead, direct the Uttar Pradesh government to start online booking of liquor and thereafter make its home delivery so that mandatory norm of social distancing can be adhered to. According to him, he has annexed some photos with his PIL showing clear violation of norm of social distancing while purchasing liquor from the shops, which were directed to be opened recently during the lockdown period by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-pil-seeks-home-delivery-of-liquor/articleshow/75609071.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Not just elderly, young too are losing Covid-19 battle||Jaipur: While a majority of Covid-19 deaths reported from SMS Hospital had comorbidities, the disturbing fact is that six of those did not have any underlying condition. Besides, contrary to the belief that the virus may prove to be fatal only for the elderly, at least 19% of patients who died are below 30 years of age. But, 89% of them had comorbidities. SMS Hospital has reported 55 deaths till May 6. Out of these, 36 patients tested positive after their death. Twelve were brought dead to hospitals attached to SMS Medical College. When the doctors took their samples, they were found positive for coronavirus. “An audit done to analyse the reasons for death of patients found that many patients had comorbid conditions such as diabetes, kidney and heart diseases. The underlying conditions have been analysed in depth for each fatality,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). It came as a shock for SMS doctors when a 20-year-old girl, who had allegedly committed suicide by hanging in Jalupura area on May 4, was found infected with Covid-19. However, out of all the deaths, 26 are above 60 years, 11 in the range of 50-60 years, eight were 30 and above but below 50, and 10 were below 30 years of age. The hospital said the young who died too had comorbidities. “We found that out of all the deaths in Jaipur, 11 of them had diabetes, 14 had hypertension, four heart disorders, two kidney issues, one liver, two stroke, two pulmonary tuberculosis and four perforation and septicemia,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. Six of the deceased did not have any comorbidity. However, the hospital said that they were elderly. “We conduct tests on all those who are brought dead to our hospital. Twelve such persons tested positive for coronavirus,” said Dr Ajit Singh, member of the core group of treatment for Covid-19 at SMS Hospital. The other members are Dr Prakash Keswani, Dr Raman Sharma, Dr S Banerjee and Dr Bhandari, who heads the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/not-just-elderly-young-too-are-losing-covid-19-battle/articleshow/75611950.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hubballi||Government must use situation to attract more students to state-run schools, say experts||HUBBALLI: The decline in the number of admissions at government schools has often been a source of considerable chagrin among officials in the education department. However, experts in the field are estimating a spike in the number of admissions this year considering the financial constraints brought about by Covid-19 pandemic. What is more, the government’s push for introducing English as the medium of instruction in more schools is expected to encourage more parents to send their children to state-run institutions. Development educationist and mentor of School Development and Monitoring Committee (SDMC) Niranjanadhya VP, pointed out that several lower middle-class families would not be in a position to bear the cost of their wards’ education in private institutions following the downturn in the economy. He said that children of such families were likely to be admitted to government schools. "The government must launch a campaign to draw more students to its schools. It has been observed that many children, owing to difficulties in payment of fees, may not be given admission at private schools. The government must convince parents to send their children to their schools, which will ease their financial burden. In the past few years, many government schools have been given a facelift, and the facilities are on a par with private institutions. A survey that we conducted in Ramanagara district indicated that nearly 2,600 students returned to government schools for the 2018-19 academic year," said Niranjanadhya, adding that a concerted campaign by the government involving teachers could result in the number of admissions increasing by 10 to 15% this academic year. Data from the department of public instruction indicates that, in the past decade, the ratio of the number of children being admitted to government schools to those joining private institutions has been disproportionately leaning in favour of the latter. Former education minister and JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti also expressed hopes of the number of admissions spiking in government schools. "Since many migrant workers have returned to the villages, they are likely to send their kids to government schools. The Karnataka government must take a leaf out of what was done in Delhi, wherein the state-run schools were refurbished to such an extent as to leave very little to choose between them and the private institutions," said the former minister. Vice-president of the All India Teachers’ Federation Basavaraj Gurikar, however, begged to differ. Although he admitted to the time being ripe for the state government to adopt measures to boost enrolment in its schools, Gurikar was sceptical of the mindset among parents in urban areas altering greatly. "Parents in villages may send their kids to government schools, but I think, in urban areas, private institutions will remain their first choice," he added. Neither primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar nor commissioner of the department of public instruction KG Jagadeesha were available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-must-use-situation-to-attract-more-students-to-state-run-schools-say-experts/articleshow/75611473.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam doctors turn to Navy Covid-19 equipment||VISAKHAPATNAM: Equipment designed to provide oxygen supply simultaneously to multiple Covid-19 patients has come in handy in treating people affected by the styrene leak. Naval Dockyard-Visakhapatnam (ND-V) had designed the ‘portable multi-feed oxygen manifold’ equipment in March, using a six-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. After successful trials, it began manufacturing a portable version of the equipment with two six-way radial headers to provide oxygen to several coronavirus patients at a time. On Thursday, soon after the gas tragedy unfolded, doctors at KGH used the equipment to put several patients on oxygen supply simultaneously to reduce the impact of exposure as well as to prevent damage to the brain and vital organs. They also shifted two of them to the incident site for quick treatment. “The Indian Navy has provided five more such equipment to KGH. Technical teams from ND-V helped in quick installation of the equipment to provide oxygen to a large number of patients. The portable systems have been designed in such a manner that six patients can be given oxygen supply from one jumbo-size bottle,” said a spokesperson of the Eastern Naval Command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/docs-turn-to-navy-covid-19-equipment/articleshow/75610912.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Man falls off 8th floor trying to get signal, dies||Rajkot: While trying to catch signal on his cellphone from the terrace of his eighth floor building on Kotharia Road in Rajkot, a man slipped and fell to his death on Wednesday night. The incident occurred at Swati Heights Apartments. The deceased was identified as Sagar Gandhi (30), a teacher in a private school on Bhavnagar Road near Kalipatgam in Rajkot. According to the police, Gandhi was not getting signal on his cellphone and so he, along with his four-year-old son, went up to the terrace of his apartment. “While his son was playing on the terrace, Gandhi sat down on the parapet, trying to catch a signal and suddenly, he lost balance and fell off the terrace. He was killed on the spot,” said V B Sukhanandi, assistant sub inspector with Aji Dam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-falls-off-8th-floor-trying-to-get-signal-dies/articleshow/75609393.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Bada Tajbagh doctor may have got Covid-19 from patient||NAGPUR: A 51-year-old homeopathic practitioner from Bada Tajbagh tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday becoming first case from South Nagpur. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) preliminary investigation indicated that the woman may have contracted the disease from one of her patients. She is probably first Covid-19 positive medical practitioner in Vidarbha. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday notified containment zone into two parts considering Nirala Society on Umred road and Tajabad Aazad Colony as epicentres. The boundaries of the Nirala Society containment zone are Lucky Chicken Centre on Umred road, Bara Kholi General Stores, Cure It Hospital and Dighori square. The boundaries of zone of Tajabad Aazad Colony are SBI Umred Road branch, Thakur plot, bridge on nullah at Azad Colony, masjid and Taj Minar bakery on Umred road. The doctor’s home is in Nirala Society and clinic at Tajabad Aazad Colony. NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “Patient’s husband and son are negative. Patient claimed they had not travelled to any containment zones in the city since lockdown. She ran her clinic till April 26. She used to treat a person from Kharbi who had severe cough. The person had returned from Raipur,” he said. The woman’s second sample tested positive on Wednesday. She was taking treatment for cough and throat infection from a general physician at Sakkardara. She went to GMCH and gave samples on April 27. Her reports were negative on April 30 but she was quarantined at MLA Hostel. Now, NMC will quarantine her patients and close contacts. Also, NMC will quarantine and test the doctor treating her and his staff at Sakkardara. Until this one, South Nagpur was the only assembly segment in city not to have a single case of Covid-19. Watch Nagpur: Bada Tajbagh area sealed after doctor tests positive for Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tajbagh-doctor-may-have-got-covid-19-from-patient/articleshow/75611953.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chronic exposure to styrene may have carcinogenic impact: Doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as the extent of damage caused by the leakage of styrene from the LG Polymers plant continues to unfold, experts agree that exposure to styrene, or vinyl benzene, for a short duration can have an acute and immediate impact on health if concentration of the toxic gas is high. Doctors, chemical engineers and environmental experts added that when exposed to styrene in low concentration over a prolonged period of time, chronic health conditions can develop, including carcinogenic symptoms. Styrene is used in the production of polystyrene plastics and resins. Dr D Raghunatha Rao, former director of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre said, “Acute (short-term) exposure to styrene in humans results in mucous membrane and eye irritation and gastrointestinal effects. Chronic (long-term) exposure to styrene results in effects on the central nervous system (CNS), such as headache, fatigue, weakness, and depression, CNS dysfunction, hearing loss and peripheral neuropathy.” However, human studies are inconclusive on the reproductive and developmental effects of styrene. Certain epidemiologic studies suggest there may be an association between styrene exposure and an increased risk of leukemia and lymphoma but evidence is inconclusive due to confounding factors, added Dr Rao. Dr N Deepchand, a postgraduate doctor at King George Hospital (KGH) said, “Even though most of the patients have been revived, in the long term some may display chemical pneumonitis or chemical pneumonia after a few days if the aerosols or toxic particles from the chemical inhaled reach the lungs and stay inside rather than getting flushed out during exhalation. Chemical pneumonitis causes inflammation of the lungs and breathing issues. Apart from it, in the long run, patients will definitely have some kind of psychological trauma involving stress, fear, anxiety and depression.” Environmental engineer Sagar Dhara said, “When people upto four kms can smell the chemical, it means the concentration level of the chemical in the air was very high. But once it gets diluted in a day or so depending upon the wind and weather conditions, it will not affect humans, animals or surroundings in the long term. However, if there is any slow undetected leakage from the plant, around which there is a high concentration of population, chronic and carcinogenic impact due to prolonged exposure is possible.” Retired Andhra University (AU) professor of chemical engineering Nittala S Sarma said, “In the long term, this chemical can be carcinogenic besides affecting the CNS. The air quality in the area will temporarily become poor, till wind dilutes the concentration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chronic-exposure-to-styrene-may-have-carcinogenic-impact-docs/articleshow/75610811.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 8, 2020||Allahabad||HC for info on ‘laxity’ in Covid-19 treatment||Prayagraj: Taking cognizance of a letter alleging that first Covid-19 death in Prayagraj took place due to laxity in treatment, Allahabad High Court on Thursday directed the chief standing counsel, representing the state government to avail necessary instructions (information) in the matter. Hearing a PIL registered as inhuman condition at quarantine centres and for providing better treatment to corona positive people, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma fixed May 11 for the next hearing of the matter. A high court lawyer, Gaurav K Gaur, through an e-mail had conveyed to the court that wife of Virendra Singh, an engineer had conveyed him telephonically that the quarantine centre, where her husband and other family members were lodged, lacks adequate hygienic conditions. Engineer Virendra Singh was first person who had died due to Covid-19 in Prayagraj. The letter also brought to the notice of the court that adequate treatment was not provided to Virendra Singh, who unfortunately succumbed to coronavirus on May 6. The court also took cognizance of a video clip which is in circulation disclosing pathetic conditions at quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-for-info-on-laxity-in-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/75609053.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Bazaars, streets empty out as leakage news spreads like wildfire||VISAKHAPATNAM: Rythu Bazaars in city, where police at one point of time struggled to enforce social distancing, wore a deserted look on Thursday morning. This despite there was still time before the curfew hours began. Few would have guessed that earlier in the morning they were sites of near-stampede. While the gas leak began as early as around 2 am, according to some reports, the news of the leak had arrived only in the morning. By then, many had ventured to buy vegetables and other essential commodities and take their walks amid the lockdown. Upon receiving frantic calls from family members, they rushed home. K Prabhakar, a banker in his late 50s said, “Although the incident took place around 12-14km away from where I stay, Visakhapatnam is a small city and with strong winds blowing in the morning, I decided against taking a risk.” He added, “The images of the Bhopal gas tragedy are still fresh in my memory. I was barely 22 then.” As news spread, people called up friends and relatives around Gopalapatnam where the factory is located. Many residents of Gopalapatnam have shifted to their relatives’ and friends’ places in the city. “In the morning when we first got the news, we switched on the TV and started browsing the internet for more news. The videos circulating were dreadful. I asked my in-laws to rush to my home as my mother-in-law has breathing problems,” said Patta Siddharth, a resident of PM Palem. Speaking to TOI, Janardhan Rao, estate manager of Peddawaltair rythu bazaar said, “Following the gas leak there were hardly any customers at the rythu bazaar as people were reluctant to come out. Shopkeepers decided to wind up by 9am. The market was almost deserted today.” Meanwhile a completely different scenario prevailed in the red zones of the city. Social distancing and lockdown restrictions took a backseat as residents of Naidu Thota, R R Venkatapuram, Prahalladapuram, Vepagunta, Sujatha Nagar and Pushottapuram began moving to safer areas. The otherwise empty streets of Prahalladapuram, which is a red zone, saw a number of private cabs and vehicles lining up for residents to leave with their friends and relatives. Many residents of Gopalapatnam and even Pendurthy also shifted out of their residences. “The LG Polymers plant is barely a km away from where I live. The gas cloud has enveloped our area. I live alone and do not have a choice but to move to a safer location. A family friend came to take me to his residence in Seethammapeta,” said K Laksminarayanamma, a 70-year-old resident of Gopalapatnam. District medical health officer Dr S Tirupathi Rao said, “We are yet to track people who have left the red zone. In fact many of the Asha workers, volunteers and others who have been monitoring the areas had to be rushed to the hospital after the fell sick after inhaling the toxic gas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bazaars-streets-empty-out-as-leakage-news-spreads-like-wildfire/articleshow/75610928.cms||Arpit Basu
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Flat ownership Act to be in place after lockdown||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department will implement the long-pending Apartment Ownership Act in the state once the lockdown is over. The town planning department has prepared rules and sub-rules of the Act after inviting public suggestions and objections. Now, the draft will be forwarded to the legal and finance department to receive approval. A senior official at town planning wing said, “Implementation of the Apartment Ownership Act, which ensures land rights of flat owners, is in the final stage. The notification will be issued once lockdown is over.” The Act, despite getting approval from President Ram Nath Kovind in July, is waiting to come in force in the state where number of apartments is increasing at a steady pace. According to the Act, every person to whom any apartment is allotted, sold or transferred by the promoter, will be entitled to exclusive ownership and possession of the property. Once implemented, it will give land rights to flat owners over the land on which an apartment is constructed. Currently, apartment owners in multi-storey buildings do not have land rights. According to the Act, every person to whom any apartment is allotted, sold or transferred by the promoter, will be entitled to exclusive ownership and possession of the property. “The Act is need of the hour as it is mandatory for the developer to issue sub-lease to purchasers claiming their right on the land on which the apartment is constructed,” said a town-planner. The Rajasthan Apartment Ownership Act was passed in the state assembly on April 8, 2015. An official informed that on April 24, the Act was sent to the central government for approval. The Centre directed the government to remove clauses 6, 11 (1) & (2) from the draft to avoid conflict with the Centre’s Real Estate Bill. “The governor in February 2018 sent the Act to the state government for re-examination. The amended Act was passed in March in the assembly. The Act, which was sent to the President in April 2018, was given final approval in July,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flat-ownership-act-to-be-in-place-after-lockdown/articleshow/75611958.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown impact: U’khand reports over 88% dip in accidents, 95% decrease in rapes in April||Dehradun: Uttarakhand has witnessed a significant slump in the number of road accidents and consequent deaths in April, compared to the same period in 2019, which is being attributed to the lockdown imposed since end-march According to the data issued by state police department, the hill state recorded just 12 cases of road accidents in April, compared to 107 cases in the same month last year —a drop of over 88%. The casualties caused by road accidents have also declined by over 94% from April 1 to 30 compared to the same period last year. Just four road related fatalities have been reported in April in the entire state, while as many as 74 people lost their lives in road accidents in April 2019. In April last year, 86 people had got injured in road accidents, compared to 17 last month, according to the police data. Elaborating on the data, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, said, "The obvious reason behind such a significant drop in number of accidents and fatalities is that people are staying indoors. Lockdown remained in force throughout April and is reflective in the accident figures." Besides road accidents, crime cases have also witnessed a significant drop in the Himalayan state in April. Overall, police registered 522 cases of crime in April this year, compared to 853 in the same period last year, a drop of about 38%. Rape cases have seen the biggest dip of 95% as two cases were registered in April this year, compared to 43 cases in April 2019. Other criminal cases have also declined in April compared to the same period last year—loot (70%), vehicle theft (100%), chain snatching (100%), theft (62%) and murder (20%). Kumar added, "As a result of the lockdown, maximum decline has been reported in outdoor crimes such as loot, vehicle theft, chain snatching and theft."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-impact-ukhand-reports-over-88-dip-in-accidents-95-decrease-in-rapes-in-april/articleshow/75607840.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipuria hospital won’t treat Covid-19 patients as residents protest in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Amid protest from the residents in the nearby areas, the health department has decided to shift Covid-19 patients from the government-run Jaipuria Hospital to RUHS Hospital in Pratap Nagar area of the city. Undergoing treatment at Jaipuria Hospital, the Covid-19 patients have been asked to pack their bags as they will not get further treatment in the hospital. Citing protest, health minister Raghu Sharma on Thursday said that those Covid-19 patients, who have been undergoing treatment at Jaipuria Hospital for the past few days, will be shifted to RUHS Hospital. “In Jaipuria Hospital, treatment of Covid-19 positive patients will not be done,” Sharma said. The health department has issued directions for disinfecting Jaipuria Hospital. “We have issued directions to complete the work for disinfecting the hospital completely after shifting all the Covid-19 patients to another hospital,” Sharma said. The hospital will be opened for patients suffering from other illnesses like it was working earlier, before Covid-19 patients were shifted to the hospital. The protest was spearheaded by BJP leader and local MLA from the area, Kalicharan Saraf. He had written letters to chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding to shift the Covid-19 patients to other hospitals. Saraf said at least 10 lakh people from Malviya Nagar, Sanganer and Bagru area will be benefitted by the decision. He said that the out-patient department (OPD) here registers 3,000 patients on normal days, but it has reduced to zero once the treatment of coronavirus patients started at the hospital. Besides, residents of the area displayed black flags outside their houses protesting against the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the area. Saraf said it is because of the protest of the people that the state government had to withdraw its decision and shift the Covid-19 patients to other hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-treatment-for-covid-19-patients-in-jaipuria-hosp-as-residents-protest/articleshow/75611962.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Allahabad||If liquor shops can be opened, why not temples, says Akhara Parishad||Prayagraj: After the Kashi Vidvat Parishad on May 4 demanded opening of temples in the state for devotees, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) — the apex decision-making body of 13 akharas representing thousands of seers and saints — has said it would write to the Prime Minister, Home Minister and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister to allow reopening of temples in the state. “If the Centre can decide to open the liquor shops, what’s wrong in opening of temples if we follow the concept of social distancing, at least devotees would pray to almighty to help the nation in the present crisis,” ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI on Wednesday while demanding reopening of temples across the state. In the presence of chief patron of Juna Akhara, Mahant Hari Giri, ABAP president said on behalf of parishad chief they would soon send letters to PM Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. Juna akhara is the largest of the 13 akharsa of the country with presence in every corner of the country. Mahant Narendra Giri said that it has been almost two months since the temples have been closed due to the corona crisis. “The temple managements are finding it difficult to pay the salaries of priests and other staff members, who look after the temples as temples are closed for almost two months now,” said Mahant Narendra Giri. He added, “The government should understand that it is not only the temple staff but the temples also support many families that are facing hardships.” He assured that if temples are allowed to open, the management, saints and even devotees would ensure that all safety protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/if-liquor-shops-can-be-opened-why-not-temples-says-akhara-parishad/articleshow/75609093.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Patients, kin from Bengal left in lurch in Bengaluru||KOLKATA: Hundreds of people from Bengal, who had gone to Bengaluru for medical treatment, are in dire straits. Having stayed there for more than a month, most of them have exhausted all their resources and are depending on irregular supply of free food. With the lockdown being extended, many of them have also sunk into deep psychological trauma and mental depression. There has been a steady flow of patients from Bengal to Bengaluru where they undergo treatment at Narayana, Manipal, Vydehi Hospital, Sri Sai Hospital and other healthcare facilities. Majority of them had gone to these hospitals in March and were scheduled to return from March 24 onwards. But the lockdown came to them as a bolt from the blue. “The government has announced the return of migrant labourers by the railways. But none is talking about us. The local authority could not say anything about our status. After we staged a protest, cops at Whitefield police station agreed to accept the list of people who had come here for medical emergency. Till now, we have no information as to how we would return home,” said Milan Ghosal. He took several of his ailing relatives to Victoria Bengaluru from their Santragachhi neighbourhood. “On Wednesday night, cops had set up a camp to prepare the list of people stuck in Bangaluru. Later, we came to know that the list was made for Odisha only. Those who were managing the camp had asked the stranded people to deposit Rs 960 each, but later they said the amount was Rs 2,000. Most of us don’t have money to foot the hotel bills and we don’t know whether the hotel authorities would allow us to leave without any security,” said Sagar Chowdhury, a stranded patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patients-kin-from-bengal-left-in-lurch-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75610956.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 spreading fast in rural Vid, may intensify after migrants return||Nagpur: In last few days, confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 are being reported from villages in Amravati, Akola, Buldhana and Yavatmal districts of Vidarbha. In Nagpur division, 1 case is reported from a village in Bhandara district and 2 in rural Nagpur. With this, it can be confirmed that the novel coronavirus has now entered in rural Vidarbha. Contact tracing, quarantining, and isolation in rural area is comparatively difficult for the administration. Hence, more cases from villages will be a danger sign for the region. TOI has carried a projection report of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha on April 27. As per that projection, Vidarbha is set to witness 75,801 cases and more than 24,000 of these will come from rural Vidarbha. As the lockdown 3.0 is offering several relaxations on travel restrictions, villages are set to receive a crowd of returning immigrants in coming days. This may increase the number of patients coming to rural areas. Rural spread was first noticed on April 3 in Washim when a 61-year-old man from Medshi village in the district was tested positive for covid-19. This man was having a contact history of single source. While tracing his contacts, administration found eight other men who came into contact this patient. They were from different villages in Buldhana district and this confirmed rural spread of covid-19 in Buldhana. But, effective management by the administration successfully put limits on this chain. Today, Buldhana has only 3 active cases, and most rural patients have recovered and discharged. A major rural chain has been reported in Akola this week when patients were traced in Antri village in Balapur tehsil, Pinjar village from Barshi Takli tehsil, and Ugwa village adjacent to Akola. Chain of rural patients in Amravati is more dangerous because it has reported one death in Shirala village of Chandur Bazar tehsil. Another chain has started in Warud where a woman and her two close contacts have already been tested positive. Further contact tracing is still on in Akola and Amravati as well. Rural spread in Yavatmal is comparatively new. First case was found in Ner, 30 kms away from the district headquarters. The patient has came into close contact of earlier positive patients who were from single source. District administration has sealed the locality and contact tracing is on. Cases are being reported from rural areas in Nagpur division too. Bhandara’s first and only case is from remote village Garada, near Daodipar in Lakhni tehsil. More than 175 contacts from this village have already been tested and found negative so far. In Nagpur rural, cases from Kamptee and Kanhan were reported, and both recovered. Interesting fact about rural cases is good recovery rate. Almost all patients from rural Akola and Buldhana have already been recovered and discharged. Same has happened in Nagpur too. Patient from Washim took 21 days to recover but was finally discharged on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-spreading-fast-in-rural-vid-may-intensify-after-migrants-return/articleshow/75611966.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 8, 2020||Jodhpur||First train with Rajasthan migrants reach Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The first train carrying Rajasthani migrant workers and students from Telangana reached Jodhpur on Thursday morning. The train that brought 921 migrants had departed from Bolarum railway station on Wednesday and reached Jodhpur’s Bhagat Ki Kothi at 8.30am. All these migrants, belonging to different districts, have been sent to their respective destinations in 17 Rajasthan Roadways buses. According to the district magistrate, those belonging to Jodhpur district were sent first to a quarantine centre in four buses. The samples of all of them were taken. After that, they were sent to their respective destinations within the district for home quarantine. Passengers were allowed to alight district-wise from the train. They were sent to their respective buses after screening and matching their records with the ones provided by the Telangana administration. Other than Jodhpur, they belonged to Nagaur, Sikar, Barmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli, Dholpur, Pali, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Bhilwara, Kota and Ajmer districts. The migrants were happy to reach their home state. The mood was quite palpable in the eagerness shown to board the buses and start the final leg of their journey home after being stuck in other states during such a crisis. Gordhan Ram, a migrant from Khaud village of Pali district, said life had become quite difficult for them in Telangana. An employee at a garment shop, he said that he had exhausted his entire savings and what the employer had given him, making it impossible for him to continue staying in Telangana. Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) commissioner Suresh Kumar Ola said the entire railway station had been sanitised well before the train arrived. “We had set up 11 counters to screen passengers and complete other documentary formalities. Passengers were called district-wise one by one and thermal screening was done before sending them to their buses,” Ola said. All passengers were provided food packets and water before they boarded their buses, which had come from other depots besides Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/1st-train-withraj-migrantsreach-jodhpur/articleshow/75611963.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 8, 2020||Kozhikode||More easing of curbs likely in Kannur, Kasaragod||KANNUR: With Covid-19 cases and also the number of people under observation drastically reducing, the number of hotspots are likely to come down soon in Kannur and Kasaragod. The trader community in the districts expect relaxation of the lockdown restrictions. The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has to decide on it. Though some relaxation has been announced in recent days, and shops and establishments are permitted to open adhering to the lockdown norms, the general feeling among the traders is that the police barricade on most roads is affecting their business. People’s representatives in Kasaragod held a meeting with revenue minister E Chandrasekharan, district collector D Sajith Babu and others on Thursday. “We put forth the problems faced by the traders for which the minister and the collector assured some proactive measures,” said Kasaragod district panchayat president AGC Basheer. “SDMA has to decide on the hotspots. District authorities have communicated the reduction in positive cases and those under quarantine. Once communication is received by Friday, the number of containment zones would be reduced accordingly,” said the collector. “When people step out, the police often block them and even the goods carriers are finding it difficult to operate,” alleged K Ahamed Shareef, Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi Kasaragod president. In Kannur too, the scenario is similar. “In the name of containment zones, even places with no cases are unnecessarily blocked and traders are finding it difficult to manage,” said C H Alikutty Haji, Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi Kannur district president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/more-easing-of-curbs-likely-in-kannur-kasaragod/articleshow/75609487.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Visakhapatnam gas leak patients to be treated for free||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the Arogyasri trust to cover all medical bills of the Visakhapatnam gas leak patients, including those admitted to private hospitals under Arogyasri scheme. Following the instructions, special chief secretary Dr KS Jawahar Reddy directed the YSR Arogyasri trust CEO Dr A Mallikharjuna to immediately issue detailed instructions to all the hospital managements in Visakhapatnam city. Arogyasri CEO Dr Mallikharjuna said gas victims will be treated for free and directed hospital managements to provide treatment to all the victims just by taking their Aadhaar number. Meanwhile, DGP D Gautam Sawang said the situation was under control at the LG Polymer plant. Sawang said within 10 minutes of the gas leak, Rakshak vehicles rushed to the spot and the situation was bought under control at around 5.30 am by quickly infusing neutralizers to contain the spread of gas. He said over 800 people were evacuated and taken to hospitals. Sawang said a preliminary investigation suggested that the mishap happened due to failure of safety mechanisms. He said there were neutralisers next to the styrene liquid in case it could gasify and leak. However, the neutralisers failed to react and contain the situation due to reasons that are under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/visakhapatnam-gas-leak-patients-to-be-treated-for-free/articleshow/75610864.cms||Samdani MN
May 8, 2020||Amaravati||Visakhapatnam gas leak patients to be treated for free||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the Arogyasri trust to cover all medical bills of the Visakhapatnam gas leak patients, including those admitted to private hospitals under Arogyasri scheme. Following the instructions, special chief secretary Dr KS Jawahar Reddy directed the YSR Arogyasri trust CEO Dr A Mallikharjuna to immediately issue detailed instructions to all the hospital managements in Visakhapatnam city. Arogyasri CEO Dr Mallikharjuna said gas victims will be treated for free and directed hospital managements to provide treatment to all the victims just by taking their Aadhaar number. Meanwhile, DGP D Gautam Sawang said the situation was under control at the LG Polymer plant. Sawang said within 10 minutes of the gas leak, Rakshak vehicles rushed to the spot and the situation was bought under control at around 5.30 am by quickly infusing neutralizers to contain the spread of gas. He said over 800 people were evacuated and taken to hospitals. Sawang said a preliminary investigation suggested that the mishap happened due to failure of safety mechanisms. He said there were neutralisers next to the styrene liquid in case it could gasify and leak. However, the neutralisers failed to react and contain the situation due to reasons that are under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/visakhapatnam-gas-leak-patients-to-be-treated-for-free/articleshow/75621422.cms||Samdani MN
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Residents of five villages evacuated||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 10,000 people living in the area surrounding LG Polymers were evacuated by the GVMC following the gas leak. Residents of five villages, Vepagunta, Prahladapuram, Simhachalm, Venkatapuram and Gopalapatnam, were evacuated to safer places like Advavivaram, Simhachalam hills, Pendurthy, Arilova and Sujathanagar. At the site of incident, a curfew-like situation prevailed; windows and doors of houses were shut and lanes and bylanes were eeriely quiet. Sunkara Ramakrishna, a postal department employee, was found sitting with his family under a tree along the BRTS Road near Adavivaram Junction, 4kms away from the city on Thursday morning. Like Ramakrishna, hundreds of harried looking residents of RR Venkatapuram and its surrounding areas have taken shelter under trees along the road in a desperate attempt to outrun the spread of the poisonous gas styrene, which leaked from LG Polymers at Gopalapatnam at 2.30 am. Interacting with TOI, Ramakrishna, a resident of Postal Colony in Srinivasa Nagar, said, “I felt something was wrong as soon as I woke up at 5am. I got a whiff of pungent smell and started having trouble breathing. As I alerted my family to go out of the house, I got the news about the gas leak.” N Meena Babu, a businessman and resident of Balaji Gardens, which is half a kilometer from the plant, said nearly 100 people from his locality were shifted to the Adavivaram Junction. “At around 4 am, we could smell a strange odor in the air. My family and friends left our locality soon after we learnt that the odor was that of styrene, which had leaked from our nearby LG Polymer plant,” Meena Babu said. G Srijana, GVMC commissioner, said the gas leak occurred at around 2.30 am on Thursday. Eleven people, including a medical student of Venkatapuram died, while 300 odd residents were hospitalised. Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy visited the victims at KGH hospital and consoled the family of the deceased. He has announced Rs 1 crore compensation for the kin of the dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/residents-of-five-villages-evacuated/articleshow/75610954.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Why Covid testsaren’t conclusive||CHENAI: On Wednesday, 15 of the 25 samples tested by the lab at the Government Villupuram Medical College turned negative in the confirmatory test hours after the lab technicians had confirmed that the screening tests were positive. At the Covid-19 control room, officials were already suspecting technical errors when districts such as Chengalpet, Cuddalore and Ariyalur were reporting a sudden spike as a spill over from the Koyambedu cluster. For instance, cases in Ariyalur went up from 34 on May 5 to 222 on Wednesday and 246 on Thursday. Cuddalore, where there were 39 cases on May 3, touched 356 cases and Villupuram, which had 53 cases, had 205 cases. "In some cases, positivity rate was higher than 70% of the samples tested," said a public health official. When the announcement about mismatch came in, there was a loud murmur. "It used to happen earlier but the numbers weren’t this large," said health minister C Vijayabaskar. "We are now seeing a wave of new cases. Labs are also seeing variations. Yet, we told the lab not the declare sample negative, but to repeat the test for the second time," he said. The department is planning to send a team of senior microbiologists and virologists to labs for standardisation of testing. Senior virologists and doctors say a number of factors from sample collections, technical issues with the kit or machine and inexperienced staff can cause ‘errors’. The RT-PCR test available in the market follows two methods -- one-step and two-step protocols. In the two-step testing kit used by government labs in Tamil Nadu, the first step called ‘screening’ looks for one antigen-coding gene envelope from the patient’s nasal or throat swab sample. If this turns out to be positive, the same sample is moved for a confirmatory test which looks for another antigen-coding gene - RdRp. If RdRp is also positive, the patient is declared positive. Else the virologist declares the sample negative. "In our tests RdRp turned negative in several cases," said a senior doctor at Villupuram Medical College. "We were not able to conclusively declare them as negative because almost all patients are asymptomatic," the doctor said. Though rare, National Institute of Virology (NIV), an apex referral lab for Covid-19, says it has received such complaints. "If confirmatory tests are negative, after screening shows positive, we ask labs to collect the second specimen from the same individual and repeat the tests," said the lab’s senior virologist. An internal control or ‘house-keeping gene’ plays a very decisive role in confirming the test results. "The gene RNAseP (RP) is like a host cell or house-keeping gene. This serves as an internal control in each test. PCR is valid only if this returns positive. Else test is declared inconclusive," he said. The problem, virologists say, may be due to combination of reasons. The simplest reason that doctors point to is the case of false negatives. "Sometimes healthcare workers may not have collected enough material (nasal or throat secretions) on the swab. If this happens, the machine may spin a false negative result at the time of discharge. There is up to 30% chance of false negative or missing out on detection of an infected patient due to error in drawing throat or nasal samples," said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-covid-testsarent-conclusive/articleshow/75611978.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body issues passes to 684 vegetable vendors||JAIPUR: To regulate the large number of vendors selling vegetables and fruits in the city, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has conducted a survey and issued passes to 684 vendors. This has been done to keep the movement and number of vegetable vendors in control. Due to the lockdown, only essential services are allowed to be opened and hundreds of street vendors are selling vegetables to earn their livelihood during the pandemic. Problem came to light when many vegetable vendors were found corona positive. To prevent these vendors from moving around different areas in the city, district administration had asked JMC to give passes to these vendors and define a route on which they can sell vegetables. JMC officials divided this work, zone-wise and vendors are given passes as per the area and population. There are eight zones in the city but passes have been given in seven zones because Hawa Mahal West is a red zone area, where outsiders are not allowed anymore. Maximum passes have been given in Vidyadhar Nagar zone – 180 and minimum in Amber zone – eight. The move is however not welcomed by the Street Vendors’ Association of Jaipur. Banwari Lal, president of the vendors’ association said that JMC officials have given passes to the people with influence. “JMC has given 684 passes but before the pandemic, there were at least 5,000 vegetable vendors in the city. Officials have given passes to people who have some political influence or are known to them. These are not given to vendors who have been selling vegetables for years in the city. This will have a direct impact on our livelihood,” said Banwari Lal. All the vendors who have received the pass will have to sell their wares in that area and any other person found selling vegetables apart from these, will be penalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-body-issues-passes-to-684-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75611959.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Now, online information on fishing zones near hotspots in Kerala||KOCHI: The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has launched an online geographic information system-based database which indicates the proximity of fish landing centres to Covid-19 hotspots in Kerala. The database offers information on the entire 156 fish landing centres in the state in various colour codes in accordance with their geographical proximity to the hotspots identified by the government. The landing centres have been categorised in different groups based on their distance with the hotspots. The first category, which requires priority in taking precautionary measures, includes fish landing centres within 3km of the hotspot. The landing centres which are 3-5km away from the hotspots fall in the second category, whereas the third category includes landing centres which are at a distance of 5-10km from the hotspots. A team of CMFRI scientists, including J Jayasankar, Shelton Padua, C Ramachandran and MA Pradeep developed the online infographics using data from the health department. According to the current status of Covid hotspots in Kerala, 17 fish landing centres fall in the first category. These landing centres are in Thiruvananthapuram (2), Ernakulum (3), Kozhikode (2), Kannur (4) and Kasaragod (6). The GIS database can be seen on the CMFRI website (www.cmfri.org.in) and will be updated in tune with the changes in the disease transmission pattern and would become helpful to identify the category of a particular fish landing centre, said A Gopalakrishnan, director, CMFRI. “The initiative will help authorities and policy makers to monitor daily activities and take steps for regulatory or safety measures in marine fisheries sector in the backdrop of the Covid-19,” said Gopalakrishnan.  He said the database will become a useful tool to implement safety measures for each landing centres according to their category. “Works are in progress to incorporate details of the fish landing centres in other maritime states too with the geographic information system based database,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-online-info-on-fishing-zones-near-hotspots/articleshow/75609452.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Robber held after loot attempt||RAJKOT: A robber was caught red handed while trying to loot a victim in Kankotgam locality of Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Ravirajsinh Jadeja, tried to rob Chirag Bhanvadia of Rs 90,000 cash. According to the police, Jadeja contacted Bhanvadia, expressing interest to buy the SUV whose ad Bhanvadia had put up on an online e-commerce platform in April. However, as the lockdown got extended, Jadeja called up Bhanvadia with his SUV near Vavdigam. Saying that his employer would come soon, he asked Bhanvadia to take a spin in his SUV. There was also Rajesh Sangani, partner of Bhanvadia, in the vehicle. “After taking Bhanvadia in his SUV to Kankotgam, Jadeja flashed out a knife and asked Bhanvadia to hand him over Rs 90,000. It was then that we happened to pass by the spot. When we stopped our van and inquired with Bhanvadia, he accused Jadeja of robbing him at knife point. We took Jadeja, Bhanvadia and Sangani to police station and arrested Jadeja on the complaint of Bhanvadia,” said cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robber-held-after-loot-attempt/articleshow/75609434.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: In Nawanshahr, police begin tracking outsiders||NAWANSHAHR: After keeping open just 14 entry points across the district during the initial phase of lockdown, Nawanshahr police has launched its online portal - STOP COVID-19 (surveillance of travellers online portal) to ensure that all those entering the district from other state/district are checked and their details filled at one common platform. The app has been made operational at 14 functional inter-district nakas of the district. Complete details of every person entering the district are being filled in the app, including the place from where they set out for their destination, their vehicle type and number, whether they are symptomatic or not, and their place of quarantine within the district if they are coming from outside Punjab or from other districts. “The app has made the monitoring of persons entering the district very convenient as the entire data is available at one common platform and proactive steps can be taken in order to ensure that those coming from outside the state are quarantined in the facility and their screening is done,” said Nawanshahr SSP Alka Meena. Explaining the feasibility of it all, the SSP added, “When inter-state movement of people has increased, it is most important to ensure that no one enters the district unchecked and that all are tested and quarantined appropriately to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the district. This initiative will prove beneficial in proper documentation and surveillance, therefore helping in effective containment of Covid-19 in the district,” she said. She said that they were categorising people entering the district in three types – those coming from outside state and district, those who have to just cross the district and those who were doing updown due to their jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-in-nawanshahr-police-begin-tracking-outsiders/articleshow/75613594.cms||I P Singh
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Woman driving to Surat from Junagadh dies in road accident||Rajkot: A woman died after the bike she was riding pillion behind her brother was rammed by a truck from rear near Magharikhada village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district on Wednesday night. Police said the deceased, identified as Beena Jikadara (20), was travelling on a bike being driven by her brother Manish Jikadara (22) when the accident occurred.The brother-sister duo was driving to Surat from Mendarada of Junagadh district, as they were natives of Surat.The Jikadara family had come to Mendarada from Surat to attend a family function. However, all of them got stuck in Mendarada after the lockdown was imposed.“On Wednesday, when the government gave permission to those stuck in Saurashtra to go to Surat and vice-versa, the family decided to leave for Surat. While the parents of the deceased went in a car, the brother-sister duo was going on a bike when they met with the accident,” said an official from Chotila police station.Manish works as a diamond worker in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-driving-to-surat-from-junagadh-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/75609483.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Mahisagar doctors, nurses test positive||Vadodara: Eight persons who were either frontline workers or those connected with health system in some way are amongst the 42 Covid-19 cases reported in the Mahisagar district. While the abnormally high number of such cases may raise eyebrows, it has come to light that these were not linked. Those who tested positive include a doctor and a nurse who used to treat Covid-19 patients. An AYUSH doctor who was involved in field work, two police personnel, a peon appointed by an agency to a health centre and a man who used to deliver food to a hospital also tested positive. Officials said that the cases were from different locations. The nurse, doctor and the man who delivered food were treating patients at Balasinore also tested positive besides a cook. A senior official said that the cases came from around Virpur, Balasinore, Kadana and Santrampur. “Barring some cases, there is no common thread running through them. It is still not certain if the man delivering the food infected the staff at the Covid-19 hospital or vice versa,” said the official. Of the 42 cases that were reported in the city, one person has died. Seven others have been discharged after their treatment was complete. Like other districts, Mahisagar too has a large number of asymptomatic cases. A man selling watermelons had also tested positive leading to a major scare in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mahisagar-doctors-nurses-test-positive/articleshow/75608541.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Find out reasons behind Amravati’s high death rate due to Covid-19: HC||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases that led to high death rate in Amravati, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court sternly directed the authorities to take necessary steps for finding out reasons behind both these factors. “The Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC) should submit its response before Friday on steps taken on compliance of guidelines issued from time to time by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on dealing with Covid-19 cases,” justice Anil Kilor said, while warning the authorities that no further time would be granted to file reply on an affidavit. The directives came while hearing a petition by Shivaray Kulkarni through counsel Pankaj Navlani. Pointing out towards non-compliance of ICMR guidelines by the corporation, he contended that the district witnessed manifold rise in the positive cases with highest mortality rate and pattern is unique. He prayed for directives to the respondents for activating Disaster Recovery Task Force there. Claiming that AMC is very slow in tracing out the contacts, Navlani argued that it was leading to spurt in the numbers of persons affected by COVID-19 with each passing day. He also claimed that contact tracing was not properly carried out and there are missing links. Pleading on AMC’s behalf, counsel Gemini Kasat said the necessary steps have already been taken and they’re trying their level best to break the chain of the coronavirus cases. He however sought time to file a detailed reply on steps taken to contain the spread. Earlier, Amravati collector filed an affidavit where he denied all the allegations stating that the administration is working as per the guidelines issued by centre and state. He said that due to their efforts, the AIIMS approved Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Amravati University’s Department of Biotechnology and it had started testing samples of Covid-19 patients. In reply, the petitioner came out with an additional affidavit claiming that the VRDL centre started recently on May 4 and over 350 samples were pending for testing. He claimed that due to lax attitude from the police machinery after their powers to take coercive action were removed, the deadly virus has spread all over 16 regions of the district. Kulkarni claimed that even though Amravati is observing a unique pattern for spread of virus, the respondents aren’t taking steps to trace out its source, when the need is to conduct aggressive testing on the lines of Bhilwara model in Rajasthan. “The Bhilwara administration aggressively tested 25-30 lakh people within a week’s time. Amravati though having a unique pattern has only tested around 1,500 citizens. As a result, the number of patients have jumped like wildfire and over ten have lost their lives,” he said, adding that while stressing on the need to give powers to cops for coercive action against the lockdown violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/find-out-reasons-behind-amravatis-high-death-rate-due-to-covid-19-hc/articleshow/75612000.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 8, 2020||Meerut||Construction on Delhi-Meerut Expressway restarts with 25% workforce||Meerut: The construction work on ambitious Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) restarted after a break of 45 days, but with a much pruned labour force of 25%. The government had plans to complete the Rs 8,346crore project by June end this year, but imposition of the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic completely halted the work on it. The much-awaited 82-km expressway will reduce the commuting time between Delhi and Meerut from three hours to just 45 minutes. A senior official said that about 30% work is still left. He also said that the upcoming monsoon will again delay the project and it is likely to be completed by October now. “We still have 100 days of work left. We lost precious time in the form of the last 45 days. A large portion of the remaining work pertains to earth filling which cannot be done during monsoon period. So the earlier June deadline will obviously shift. Now we see the completion by the end of October. Another challenge is to work with just one-third of workforce, but in present circumstances we cannot take risk of infection so social distancing norms will have to be observed,” said RP Singh, project director of the expressway. While permission was granted for Ghaziabad stretch earlier, it was given for Meerut on Thursday. The expressway project is divided in four phases. Phase 1 (Akshardham Temple to UP Gate) and Phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) are complete. Phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and Phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) is about 70% complete. On Thursday, Meerut administration also gave nod to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to start construction with curtailed staff. “We have got the permission to begin construction, with restrictions though. The expressway terminates at Meerut’s Partapur where a railway over-bridge and an interchange junction are under construction. Similarly, at Dasna also, a 700-metre elevated road is under construction. At present we have 25% labour which will be increased to 33% as per the directions from Meerut administration. The workers will stay within our campuses and will be subjected to thermal screening to rule out the possibility of any infection,” said Arvind Kumar, manager technical at DME.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/construction-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-restarts-with-25-workforce/articleshow/75609458.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 8, 2020||Meerut||Ten more coronavirus cases surface in Meerut, tally reaches 197||MEERUT: At least 10 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus in Meerut on Thursday taking the district’s tally to 197-- including the one in Kanpur. One case each was reported from Hapur and Bijnor districts also. Hapur’s tally is 53, and in Bijnor 35 people have been infected from Covid-19 so far, including three who are in Kanpur. Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “As many as 10 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut. These include four from Zaidi farm and one each from Purva Abdul Wali, Rajban, Shahpeer Gate and Sabun Godam area.” Locations for the two cases were being ascertained at the time of filing this copy. So far, nine persons have died in Meerut and the positive cases have been on a rise this week. Maximum 24 cases were reported from city’s largest wholesale vegetable market, Naveen Sabzi Mandi. Aditi Singh, Hapur’s district magistrate, said, “One case was confirmed in Pilkhuwa area. His sample was taken on Wednesday. Now, total cases in Hapur are 53.” While in Bijnor, chief medical officer Dr Vijay Yadav said, “24-year-old niece of a private doctor, who had tested positive and died, tested positive in Bijnor. His wife and a son have already found infected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/10-more-cases-surface-in-meerut-tally-reaches-197/articleshow/75609465.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||JMC data reveals Cong areas got more ration than BJP ones||Jaipur: More than 2.5 lakh ration packets have been distributed in the city by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) till now with majority being distributed in the constituencies of Congress MLAs. According to data provided by JMC officials, 1,94,832 packets have been distributed in Congress constituencies and 57,465 in BJP constituencies. The packets are being given to people who are not able to arrange two meals a day.Data revealed that most packets were distributed in Kishanpole constituency of Congress MLA Amin Kagzi ( around 53,000) and least in Amber constituency of BJP MLA Satish Poonia (5,000).Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty said 40,000 families in his area need ration, but JMC has failed to provide. “Thousands of labourers are employed in paper, cloth and other industries in Sanganer. All of them are daily wage earners. JMC officials under Congress pressure are not fulfilling their duties,” said Lahoty.Congress MLA Rafiq Khan opposed this allegation. “Our MLAs donated money from MLA LAD funds but BJP MLA didn’t donate a single penny. You will find Kishanpole area despite being the smallest constituency getting most rations packets because it is in the hotspot. Residents of the area are locked up for a month. We have to provide them extra ration. Apart from this there have been no discrimination,” said Khan.Congress MLA from Hawa Mahal Mahesh Joshi supported Khan’s claim and added that none of the BJP and RSS workers is on field working for people but busy in making false allegations. “They are donating funds in PM relief fund despite state government asking financial help from central government. Their MLA had tried to communalise the food distribution process. Their approach in wrong and there is no discrimination in giving ration,” said Joshi. When Poonia was asked to respond, he said it was the policy of minority appeasement of the Congress that number of positive cases in Ramganj has increased. “In Walled City, people other than one community were ignored while giving ration and we have informed this to the team from Delhi and governor. The state government is dependent on financial help from Bhamashah and MLA LAD fund but haven’t spent a penny from their pocket,” said Poonia. Ration distribution is done on a door-to-door basis by JMC officials every day. The number of ration is increasing and only after proper verification of the person it is delivered at people’s doorstep. Every day JMC is receiving 5,000 calls in their call centre for distribution of ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-data-reveals-cong-areas-got-more-ration-than-bjp-ones/articleshow/75611964.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Extent of ecological damage unclear, animals near polymer plant perish||Visakhapatnam: The styrene leak from the LG Polymers unit has also led to the death of a large numbers of animals in the plant’s vicinity. According to a visible count, nearly 22 cattle, six dogs and a pet cat were found dead. Leaves on several trees withered or got burnt. Sources in the animal husbandry department said that most of the animals killed are domestic animals. They, however, said the damage done to birds and smaller species is yet to be ascertained. B Rama Krishna, joint director of animal husbandry, said, “We are still on the field and in the process of identifying damage to the livestock. A majority of the animals that have died are either milch animals (cows, buffaloes) or pets.” He said they were assisted by animal rights’ groups. Sources said the areas close to Meghadrigedda reservoir is also being scouted to assess the damage. So far, five wild birds have been rescued. With regard to the damage to trees and plants, K Sailaja, assistant director, horticulture department, said, “Most of the trees in the area are old mango trees. They wear a weathered look.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/extent-of-ecological-damage-unclear-animals-near-polymer-plant-perish/articleshow/75610982.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||On Buddha Purnima, Vatika inaugurated at Haldwani||NAINITAL: On the occasion of Buddha Purnima, the Uttarakhand forest department inaugurated a ‘Buddha Vatika’ in the campus of the Uttarakhand Forest Research Centre in Haldwani. The Vatika that spreads across an acre of land has been planted with 13 tree species that had special relevance in Buddha’s life, according to the forest department. Chief conservator of forests (research), Sanjiv Chaturvedi, said that the forest department has used various scriptural and literary references to identify these 13 plant species that are believed to have had a significant impact on Budhha’s life. “There are over sixty one names of forests mentioned in various Buddhist scriptures such as Tripitkas, Attakathas, Jatakas and geography of that period. Lord Buddha, during his travel, generally spent his nights either near a pond or in an Amravana (mango grove), Amalakavana (emblic myrobalan) or Aranyavana (natural forest),” Chaturvedi added.He further said that the saplings planted in the campus include an Ashoka tree, similar to the one under which Gautam Buddha is believed to have been born and a peepal tree which is associated with the Buddha’s enlightenment at Bodhgaya. “In Japanese Buddhist iconography, his deathbed is surrounded by tall, slender sal trees with golden or yellow leaves while in the Sanskrit Buddhist tradition, half an amalaka fruit was the final gift to the Buddhist Sangha by the emperor Ashoka. Therefore, we have included these trees as well,” Chaturvedi said. The forest department has put up plaques near each of these saplings explaining both its significance in Buddha’s life and their biological functions. “The Vatika has been inaugurated and entry for visitors will be free. The move has been aimed at bringing out conservation efforts out of abstract ideas and connect it to the religious and cultural importance so that common people can feel connected,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/on-buddha-purnima-vatika-inaugurated-at-haldwani/articleshow/75607923.cms||Prashant Jha
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Not ‘gas leak’, says man who worked at unit for 12 years||VISAKHAPATNAM: Anantram Ganapati, a chemical engineer from the city, worked for 12 years at the LG Polymers plant when it was owned by the UB Group. Ganapati, who worked as an assistant manager at the styrene plant of Hindustan Polymers — as it was called before being taken over by the South Korean group in 1997 — handled both the product and raw material and had also executed several revamp projects at the plant. According to Ganapati, there was no gas leakage at the plant. “Styrene is a monomer with a boiling point of 145 degree Celsius. It is a liquid aromatic hydrocarbon that is stored at lower than ambient temperatures so that it does not polymerise. A polymerisation inhibitor is also added to it,” he explained. “Once it starts reaching temperatures higher than ambient conditions, it will give off vapours and also start polymerising. The leakage of styrene vapours might have taken place due to this. We can’t call this gas leakage, the fumes were vapours of the styrene monomer,” Ganapati added. Exposure to styrene liquid or vapours can cause irritation of the skin or give a burning sensation, he said. “It can also affect the respiratory tract, besides causing dizziness as the nervous system gets impacted. The best immediate remedy is to flush the affected parts with water,” said Ganapati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-gas-leak-says-man-who-worked-at-unit-for-12-years/articleshow/75610999.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||After reaching Uttar Pradesh, migrants find little support||AHMEDABAD: Naresh Yadav and Kamal Yadav did not get a bus or a transport provided by authorities to travel to their hometown Baliya and had to hire a tempo for Rs 2,000 ignoring social distancing.  They say that in Gujarat they may have been charged for rail fare, but they at least got buses free and the authorities ensured social distancing was followed. Yadav says when they landed in UP, they were taken to a room where they were checked by a team of doctors. They the received clearance to travel to their hometown. Yadav had boarded a train from Sabarmati to Agra Fort on Saturday, but instead of stopping at Agra Fort the train stopped at Kanpur. “We were put up in a school and checked. The food served was inadequate. We were served four puris and sabji in lunch and khichdi in dinner. It was litti chokha with chillies in breakfast,” says Shailendra Singh. On Thursday afternoon, a final check was made by the doctors, and those who’d returned from Gujarat were issued individual letters stating they were not infected and could travel to their homes. “However, when we asked for transportation we were told to make our own arrangements. We did not have any money, and hence we all got together and told the tempo driver that we will pay him when we reach our village. The tempo driver settled for Rs 2,000. There were 10 to 15 of us in the tempo and there was no way to maintain social distancing,” said Naresh Yadav. “I personally feel that Gujarat was much better. They charged us Rs 500 but also gave a train ticket for the same amount. The government had at least made arrangement for buses to bring migrants from all talukas of Ahmedabad,” said Yadav. Abhishek Singh, a resident of Ambedkarnagar district said there was a bus, but they were dropped off mid-way from where they had to walk for two hours to reach their village. “When we reached our village we were told we will have to stay in the school building for 14 days. Lunch, dinner and even drinking water has to be supplied by our family and the administration has made no arrangements for quarantined people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-reaching-up-migrants-find-little-support/articleshow/75611028.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||5 squalls in a month, Kolkata gets unusually high pre-monsoon rain||KOLKATA: It has been an exceptionally mild summer in Kolkata and Gangetic Bengal so far with the region receiving substantially higher rainfall than normal during the pre-monsoon period. While Kolkata has received 42% more rain than the normal mark between March 1 and May 7, Gangetic Bengal has got 82% more rain during the period. Frequent formations of systems like cyclonic circulations and low-pressure troughs have led to thunderstorms and rain that kept the mercury down. Kolkata has recorded a highest temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius so far while the mercury is yet to touch 40 degrees in south Bengal, which is unusual, according to weathermen. In Kolkata, the normal rain count between March 1 and May 7 is 112.2mm while the city has received 159.5mm. Five squalls have struck the city since April 10, the last being on Wednesday morning that lashed Kolkata with a wind speed of 71 km/hr. At least two more squalls have been predicted this week. Gangetic Bengal has received 181mm rain, which is close to double the usual figure of 99mm. Apart from the systems that have led to thunderstorms, a high-pressure zone above the Bay of Bengal has been supplying moisture, thus aiding the systems. “The high-pressure has made a big difference this time. There has been adequate heating in the central parts of India and the moisture from the Bay of Bengal has been leading to thunderclouds. For instance, we had a high-intensity squall on Wednesday that was triggered by clouds formed in Madhya Pradesh. The cloud cells travelled all the way, reaching Kolkata early in the morning,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. Kolkata and south Bengal receives around six thunderstorms between March and May. “Often, we receive more. This time, for instance, we have had more than 10 already with five squalls while more may be in store. Due to the high-pressure zone and the consistent formation of systems, we have had a series of thunderstorms. Usually, there is a break and the interim period gets very warm till the next thunderstorm strikes. But this time, there has hardly been a break,” said Das. Kolkata is set to receive a thunderstorm by Friday, which could be followed by yet another one during the weekend. “Till the high-pressure persists, chances of thunderstorm will remain high,” said Das. On Wednesday, Kolkata was lashed by a squall that struck with a wind speed of 71km/hr. It lasted for three minutes, leaving a trail of uprooted trees, toppled lampposts and snapped electrical wires across the city under lock down. On Wednesday, Kolkata received 46.6mm rain The squall struck at an unusually early hour – 3.55am. It was, however, not the first early morning squall this season. In mid-April, another early morning squall had hit the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-squalls-in-a-month-kolkata-gets-unusually-high-pre-monsoon-rain/articleshow/75611044.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 8, 2020||Kanpur||Criminal cases against 15 Tablighi Jamaat members||Kanpur: Police on Tuesday registered criminal cases against 15 Tablighi Jamaat members at the Anwarganj police station of the city and charged them under sections 188/271 of IPC and section 3 / 4 of the Epidemic Act 1897. Incharge of Anwarganj police station Pradeep Tomar had lodged the FIR against Mohd Aquib , Mohd Faraz, Faizan , Hasan Ali , Abdul Qadir, Mohd Faheem, Moin Ahmad, Haidar, Afzal, Mohd Waseem, Salman, (all residents of Chandpur, district Bijnor), Mohd Ali Zafar, resident of Leader Road, Prayagraj, Mohd Junaid of Faridabad (Haryana), Mohd Ashad of Badhola (Bijnor) and Faiz of Saray Chandpur (Bijnor). Though the date of the incident mentioned in the FIR is April 1, but the report was lodged on May 4. The complainant stated in his report that the accused had flouted the lockdown rules and violated section 144 of CrPC by assembling near Haji Inayat Masjid on April 1. Police arrested them and after their medical examination, quarantined them at Narayan Engineering College in Panki. During the medical examination, one Abdul Qadir and those who had come in his contact were found Covid-19 positive and the chain thus turned the Quli Bazar area as hotspot. According to sources, 15 Jamaatis had stayed at Sheikh Lallan Masjid of Anwarganj area after returning from Nizamuddin Markaz. Of the 15 Makkaz returnees, Abdul Qadir was found infected. His travel history revealed that four people, who had come in his contact tested positive on April 15. Thereafter, 51 persons were found corona positive in Quli Bazar area the third week of April, the source added. A vegetable vendor, who was found positive on April 15, spread the infection in the area after which the entire Quli Bazaa area under Anwarganj police station was declared a hotspot. Sub inspector Pradeep Tomar said police have issued notices to the accused who have been kept in Panki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/criminal-cases-against-15-tablighi-jamaat-members/articleshow/75587534.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 8, 2020||Business||HCL outperforms peers, grows 16.7% in last fiscal||Bengaluru: HCL Technologies outperformed its Indian IT peers, growing 16.7% year-on-year in constant currency (which discounts the impact of currency fluctuations) in 2019-20. HCL CEO C Vijayakumar said 10.7% of growth was organic and 6% was on account of acquisitions. Even the organic growth was higher than Infosys’s constant currency growth of 9.8% and TCS’s 7.1%. HCL’s revenue for the year stood at $9.9 billion, widening the gap with Wipro, which did $8.3 billion. HCL’s net income rose 7.8% to $1.5 billion during the same period. The company joined peers Infosys and Wipro in suspending its revenue guidance due to the uncertainty generated by the pandemic. During the March quarter, the company delivered an Ebit margin of 20.9%. For the year, the Ebit margin was 19.6%. Its “Mode 2” offerings, comprising digital, cyber security, analytics and IoT, grew 27.6% YoY in constant currency. In the March quarter, revenue sequentially grew 0.8% in constant currency to $2.5 billion, and 13.5% year-on-year. The company said early response with a robust business continuity plan that was put in place after the first human-to-human transmission was detected in January, translated into negligible Covid-19 impact in the March quarter. Vijayakumar said Covid-19 will have a bearing on its business in the June quarter. “The impact is going to be more in the first quarter because customers have some reduction in volume based billing, project spends are getting deferred, and because of price discounts and extended payment terms. The demand side is in a fluid state and it should stabilise in the second quarter. We are confident of momentum in the medium to long term, as digital transformation will accelerate more than before,” he told TOI. The industries among HCL’s portfolio that have been impacted include aviation, industrial and entertainment. Telecom, financial services and professional services have seen lower impact. “We see pockets of good demand in weak verticals and pockets of weak demand in strong verticals. Given our portfolio mix, we don’t see this pandemic influencing our multi-year engagement beyond the short-term,” he said. During the year, the products & platforms business grew at 60.5% in constant currency, mainly due to the $1.8 billion acquisition of select IBM products. HCL added 1,250 employees in Q4, taking its overall employee headcount to 150,423. HCL HR head Apparao said the company will honour its commitment to hire 15,000 people from campuses this year, however, the dates for onboarding could vary. There will be no Covid-related redundancies, he said. Vijayakumar said they have not decided on pay hikes yet, and indicated there could be a moderation in variable payouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hcl-outperforms-peers-grows-16-7-in-last-fiscal/articleshow/75609520.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Odisha high court directive leaves Gujarat government worried||GANDHINAGAR: After the Odisha high court (HC) directed the state government of Odisha to allow migrant workers to enter the state only if they test Covid-19 negative, the Gujarat government has had to cancel three trains that were expected to carry 3,600 migrant workers back to their home state Odisha. Fearing that more states are likely to put similar clauses for migrant workers who are returning back in thousands, the state government is hastening the travel of those who intend to leave for their native places. Until now, about 100 trains carrying 1.10 lakh migrant workers have left Gujarat. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary (ACS), labour and employment department, said, “I have spoken to the chief secretary of Odisha and he has said that the state government will once again make a representation before the HC, allowing for migrant workers’ travel after a primary health check-up, as testing so many people for Covid-19 is very challenging.” Mittra added that so far, over 1.10 lakh migrant workers have left through 100 trains, and 20 trains are being operated on a daily basis from the state to destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states. “We are strictly following all the guidelines of the government of India. We are hopeful to send all migrant workers who want to return to their states,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/odisha-high-court-directive-leaves-gujarat-govt-worried/articleshow/75611055.cms||Kapil Dave
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Aspiring doctor among 11 who died||VISAKHAPATNAM: A year ago, 19-year-old Chandramouli took admission in the state’s top medical institute – Andhra Medical College (AMC) — with the dream of graduating as a doctor. In a cruel twist of fate, his body lay in the same AMC on Thursday, awaiting post-mortem. One of the 11 casualties of Thursday’s chemical tragedy included first year MBBS student A Chandramouli. He had, like the others, asphyxiated after inhaling styrene. His father, too, was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state and is still not out of danger. Chandramouli’s body, however, bore injury marks. “From the injuries, it can be surmised that the medical student had fallen down from a height while trying to escape from the toxic fumes which had engulfed the area. Since the gas created a haze and there was a visibility problem, Chandramouli probably could not see properly and fell down from a considerable height, which led to the injuries. However, the exact cause of the death — whether due to the injuries or asphyxiation — can be ascertained only after post-mortem,” Dr N Deepchand, president of AP junior doctors’ association, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aspiring-doc-among-11-who-died/articleshow/75611012.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Beer sale down despite hike in hard liquor prices in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The liquor market in Karnataka is witnessing an unusual trend ever since retail shops reopened after the government eased lockdown norms on May 4 — beer sale has significantly plummeted even after the government jacked up prices of Indian-made liquor (IML) brands. From May 4 to May 7, Karnataka sold alcoholic beverages worth Rs 639 crore. Of this, IML contributed Rs 580 crore with a sale of 87.7 lakh litres during this period. However, retail shops could manage to sell only about 18.6 lakh litres of beer. The skew is despite IML getting dearer with tax rates going up by 25-31%. While the 6% hike in additional excise duty (AED) on IML, which was proposed in 2020-21 budget, kicked in on Tuesday, the government on Wednesday again hiked AED on hard liquor from 17-25% across 18 price slabs. On the other hand, tax rate on beer remains unchanged for more than a year now. While beer attracts excise duty of Rs 10 per litre and 175% of AED on declared price, a litre of IML attracts excise duty of Rs 50 and AED ranging from Rs 179 to Rs 4,445 on declared price depending on the slab in which it falls. “Normally, sale of IML and beer is in the 60:40 ratio, but over the last four days it has been in 85:15. Consumption of IML is increasing exponentially but beer sale is picking up rather slowly,” said G Govindaraj Hegde, president, Federation of Wine Merchants Association. Stakeholders cite multiple reasons for decline in beer sale. “Excise officials are pushing IML since it fetches more tax revenue than beer and they are also putting more pressure on retailers to buy more hard liquor,” said KS Lokesh, managing director of Madhuloka Liquor Boutique Pvt Ltd. “They are pushing IML sale to help the cash-strapped government offset revenue losses suffered during the lockdown. On some days, we are not getting beer stocks at Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited depot,” added Chennagiriyappa, a wine shop owner in Koramangala. Another major reason for the decline is closure of pubs, clubs and bars and restaurants, where beer is sold in large quantities. “These are places where people, especially the young crowd, prefer to consume beer,” said a pub owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/beer-sale-down-despite-hike-in-hard-liquor-prices/articleshow/75611031.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Doon Tibetan community celebrates Buddha Purnima||DEHRADUN: Following strict social distancing norms, the Tiebtan Buddhist community celebrated the Buddha Purnima festival , regarded as the 2564th birth anniversary of Gautam Buddha, on Thursday by organising online ‘dhamma talks’ and distributing ration kits and cloth masks to the needy. Tsering Luding, vice-president of the Doon Buddhist Committee, said, “The community viewed the lockdown as a wonderful opportunity to put the teaching of Lord Buddha into practice and serve the distressed especially the poor and the voiceless animals. Ration kits and face masks were distributed in Rajpur, Sahastradhara Road and other nearby areas with the help of police. Only one public gathering happened at the Buddha Chowk where just five people were present. Earlier, there used to be events where hundreds of community members used to come but this year we didn’t organise it due to the lockdown.” Kalden Sakya of the Sakya Centre, a prominent spiritual centre for the Tibetan community, located on Rajpur Road, said, “A Facebook Live was organised by us which people from across the world joined and got lessons on the teachings of Buddha. Most of the Buddhist community members in Dehradun stayed in their houses and prayed on the occasion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-tibetan-community-celebrates-buddha-purnima/articleshow/75608004.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 22 held for attending religious function||RAJKOT: Organizing religious function can land you in jail during this lockdown period. As many as 22 people were arrested for the alleged violation of the lockdown period when they participated in Satya Narayan Katha in Kalavad taluka village of Jamnagar district on Wednesday night. Of those arrested included Jaisukh Lunagaria (57) and his wife Rasila Lunagaria (53) and two brahmin priests — Vasantrai Joshi (52) and Mayur Joshi (32) — who conducted the religious discourse in Bamangam village of Kalavad taluka. The rest of those arrested were 18 women. “We raided the Lunagaria’s house after we received a tip-off that Satya Narayan Katha was going on there. As the assembly of more than four people is prohibited under this lockdown period, we arrested them for the offence,” said P P Jadeja, ASI, Kalavad rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/22-held-for-attending-religious-function/articleshow/75609527.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: At KGH, distressed attempt to trace kin||VISAKHAPATNAM: It was utter chaos, confusion, human suffering and a ray of hope at King George Hospital (KGH) on Thursday morning as scores of people — many unconscious — were rushed in ambulances and other vehicles for emergency medical care, and doctors rushing in to provide succour to the distressed people. Soon, KGH was filled with cries of relatives as people began going around the wards in search of their near and dear ones, while ambulances brought in more people affected by styrene leak from LG Polymers unit. It had all happened within a couple of hours and many were fast asleep at home when the pre-dawn tragedy unfolded at Gopalapatnam, about 20 km away from KGH. Soon the British-era hospital turned into a mega emergency medical unit with doctors and paramedical staff attending to scores of people. The doctors had to attend to the anxious relatives even while providing medicare to the affected. K Swathi had been searching till late afternoon for news of her sister K Sailaja and brother-in-law K Prasad, a Naval Dockyard employee. “I wish to hear that they are safe and have been admitted to the hospital. I have been searching for them but in vain,” she said. Like Swathi, G Venkata Lakshmi was also on the lookout for her aunt G Kanakamma who was taken ill after exposure to styrene. Similar tales of woe were witnessed at KGH as relatives of the styrene leak victims struggled to locate family members.  Nearly 30 ambulances were pressed into service to transport the affected people to the hospital and by afternoon, as many as 130 persons were admitted in KGH. Even as relatives intensified their search, the sudden rush of patients caught doctors and medical staff unawares. Initially, the absence of connections to install oxygen cylinders delayed treatment. However, the situation was dealt with on a war-footing. “Sufficient oxygen was available and we were prepared to supply it to patients. In KGH, one bed was initially allocated for the two children,” said Andhra Medical College principal Dr P V Sudhakar. The lockdown played a part in the timely response to victims at KGH. Low occupancy rate of beds also helped the staff provide beds to the affected people as soon as they were brought to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-kgh-distressed-attempt-to-trace-kin/articleshow/75611042.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Goons selling liquor in garb of food distribution||Nagpur: Death of 22-year-old from Parvati Nagar has bared murkier truth about how goons, including the ones slapped with murder charge and booked under Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), have started their illegal activities in the garb of volunteering in food and ration kit distribution drives in different parts of the city, especially South Nagpur. Sources claimed these goons are also selling liquor on the pretext of providing butter milk while distributing ration and food. The goons are also using the opportunity to establish their domination in localities with an aim to fulfil their political aspirations, the sources added. Some hardened goons, either released on bail or acquitted in some cases, have been roped in for food/ration distribution by some political outfits for using their clout to dominate vote bank politics in the localities. Police sources claimed a few days ago, the deceased from Parvati Nagar had participated in food distribution programme with Golu Borkar and Guddu Nikhare, both allegedly involved in a gang war in which they had fired upon Amol Mehar at Hawrapeth in 2015. Borkar, who flaunts his connections with a local public representative, was also named in a murder case in the past. It’s also learnt that Borkar’s accomplice Gijriya too had been engaged in food distribution at Kaushalya Nagar, which is close to Parvati Nagar. Gijriya was caught by the crime branch around a week ago from a gambling den. An illegal moneylender and liquor trader Sumeet, brother of a murder accused, is also learnt to be engaged in food distribution work. He roams in swanky cars with food and ration kits. Sources claimed that Sumeet also ferries liquor in the car. According to a senior officer, the goons who are now distributing food have been out on bail or acquitted by court. “Unless they are caught doing mischief, it is difficult to stop them as they have been cleared by the court,” said the officer. It’s also learnt gangsters and bookies are also engaged in operating social media groups for betting on online ludo game. Swapnil, a leading bookie, has even started a group named ‘Lockdown ludo’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goons-selling-liquor-in-garb-of-food-distribution/articleshow/75612011.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Thirsty Tamil Nadu buys 20 lakh litres of liquor in one day||CHENNAI: After a six week-long ‘dry period’, liquor outlets in Tamil Nadu, barring Chennai, opened on Thursday and thirsty men and women bought about 20 lakh litres worth Rs 170 crore. The liquor consumed across the state in a single day was just four lakh litres less that the 24 lakh litres of milk supplied by state-owned Aavin across the state. Official sources said 3,700 of the 5,300 outlets of Tasmac, the liquor monopoly in the state, sold approximately two lakh cases of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) (each containing 48 bottles of 180 ml) and about 50,000 cases of beer (each containing 12 full [650 ml] bottles). This translates into tipplers collectively buying more than two million litres of IMFL and beer on a single day. On a normal day, about 1.6 lakh cases of IMFL and beer are bought in a day in the state including Chennai. "The beer sale was relatively less as there was a cap on selling only bottle to one customer," an official said. Officials said wooden barricades were placed 200 feet before every outlet, 50 circles were drawn to ensure social distancing and customers were given sanitizers. Long queues, often stretching up to 1km, were seen in some places as people waited patiently for the precious liquid. In a few places, no rules were followed as customers wanted to be the first to grab a bottle. At Thuckalay in Kanyakumari, customers braved a heavy downpour and waited in a queue to get their brew. Staff of some outlets issued tokens and sold only one 750ml bottle per person. Tasmac officials in Coimbatore, where 207 of 295 shops were opened, sales were three times those on a normal day. "A shop which used to sell Rs 2 lakh worth liquor a day made Rs 6 lakh today," said one. Many had to take what they got as many brands were unavailable but few complained. In Madurai, police were deployed and rules followed for the first one hour, but soon chaos ruled. At Sellur, angry residents staged a protest objecting to reopening of the Tasmac outlet in the locality and got it closed. Staff of one outlet in Trichy provided chairs and a shamiana for the sweating customers. (With inputs from Nivedha Selvam, V Devanathan and Gokul Rajendran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thirsty-tn-buys-20-lakh-litres-of-liquor-in-1-day/articleshow/75612016.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Over 4.60L dry ration packets distributed in Jaipur||Jaipur: So far, around 1.5 lakh poor and needy people including migrant workers have been distributed over 4.60 lakh dry ration packets in the rural and urban areas of Jaipur. These are those poor families that are not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Nearly 2.6 lakh cooked food packets are distributed on a daily basis by the district administration and around 90,000 packets are distributed by the NGOs and civil society groups. In all, 3.5 lakh cooked food packets are distributed in the district on a daily basis. “There are about 53 food points in the district through which these cooked food packets are distributed,” said Lok Bandhu, CEO, Jaipur Smart City limited, who is also in charge of distribution of cooked food packets. Nearly 4,500 migrant workers were dropped at the Uttar Pradesh border on 125 roadways buses on Thursday. These migrants workers were on their way to heir home districts in Pilibhit, Shahjapur, Farukabad and Jalon. “Of the total, 50 buses left from Jaipur sub-division with 1,750 migrant labourers. These also included chhildren,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jaipur sub-division Yugantar Sharma. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-4-60l-dry-ration-packets-distributed-in-jaipur/articleshow/75612004.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Business||Jio is in talks with NPCI to get UPI apps on its phones||BENGALURU: In a move that can significantly boost digital payments in India, Jio is working with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) to bring leading Unified Payments Interface (UPI) apps to Jio Phones, two people aware of the matter said. A majority of Jio’s last reported 388 million subscribers use devices that run on KaiOS, which is different from Android or Apple’s iOS. Jio has already started working on the NPCI infrastructure for the same, a banker aware of the matter said. Industry sources said this could bring in a significant number of new users to UPI and create a massive reach for payment apps like PhonePe and Google Pay. This comes at a time when NPCI, which manages UPI, is looking to grow the platform’s adoption as monthly volume and value dropped for the first time in April due to the lockdown. UPI currently has about 100 million users, which is also expected to see a boost when WhatsApp Pay goes live. “They have been working on the NPCI library, which essentially brings the payments screen where one puts a password after initiating a transaction. They need to build this through NPCI library separately because of the different operating system, which has few non-Jio Apps,” a person aware of the matter said. Incidentally, amid the pandemic, the government is also reportedly working on a version of Aarogya Setu for Jio Phones. This further signifies the large user base Jio has across the country. Emails sent to Reliance Jio and NPCI did not elicit any response till the time of going to press. Jio has its own JioStore with a host of in-house apps like MyJio, JioSaavn, JioTV, JioCinema, JioXpressNews, JioVideoCall, JioPay and JioGames. Additionally, Jio device users can access customised versions of popular social media applications like YouTube, WhatsApp and Facebook. “The work has been going on before the Facebook deal was announced. It is moving at a fairly good pace. It would be a big boost for all stakeholders — UPI network and payment apps,” another person aware of the development said. These sources, however, could not indicate a finalised timeline for the rollout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-is-in-talks-with-npci-to-get-upi-apps-on-its-phones/articleshow/75609546.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rise in mental illness during lockdown: Study||Ahmedabad: The lockdown situation in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic has not only caused financial stress but also led to mental illness issues. A study conducted recently by a team of experts points out that there has been a rise of about 25% in mental illness. The study shows that the cases of panic attacks have seen the biggest rise of 44%, while depression cases are up by 27% in the lockdown period. Cases of adjustment issues have seen a rise of about 23%. Addiction related problems have also gone up by 18%, while domestic violence has seen a rise of 9.5%. Problems arising due to the matters related to religion are up by 2.1%, it said. The study has been carried out by Gujarat Psychological Intervention Helplines (GPIH). It has been formed by a team of 150 members which includes medical college lecturers and professional psychologists. The GPIH runs 10 helplines. Its findings are based on the counselling sessions of 40,350 persons across Gujarat. On May 7, the GPIH wrote to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani that the mental conditions of people during the lockdown was worrisome. The group of experts has advised the chief minister to think of measures beyond the lockdown to curb Covid-19 pandemic. It also suggested that rehabilitation and de-addiction centres be allowed to open to treat patients as the unavailability of tobacco or other addictions during the lockdown can lead to severe physical and mental issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rise-in-mental-illness-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/75611080.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||106 +ve in two days, Mominpura surpasses Satranjipura||Nagpur: The city has registered 106 positive Covid-19 cases in last two days. Number of corona positive from Mominpura, city’s second hotspot, increased to 119 with 85 new cases in just two days. Tally of Satranjipura is 114, including 12 in last two days. Three Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients admitted at GMCH also tested positive on Thursday, increasing new cases (not from existing containment zones) to six. Three persons from Bada Tajbagh, Ganeshpeth and Khushi Nagar had tested positive on Wednesday. Areas of remaining three positive persons could not be known. The district’s total cases increased to 267, of which 87.2% cases are from Mominpura and Satranjipura. Meanwhile, four positive persons were discharged after recovering complete in last two days, increasing their numbers to 65. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Thursday notified three more containment zones — Bada Tajbagh, Ganeshpeth and Khushi Nagar. The NMC has started to trace and quarantine family members and close contacts from these three areas. Mundhe told TOI, “119 cases from Mominpura and 114 from Satranjipura are result of NMC’s mass quarantine model. One positive person can spread disease to over 400 persons as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Thus, we succeeded in identifying positive cases and give them treatment in time. Also, model helped in preventing mass spread of Covid-19 to other areas.” The cases from Mominpura swelled as the civic body’s team led by assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin quarantined over 500 persons from Choodi Gully and Dobi Nagar in last one week. Reports of many quarantined persons are awaited. In a major worry for NMC, positive patients have continued to come from different localities of Mominpura. A pregnant woman was admitted for delivery at IGGMCH on Wednesday from Lal Pathar area, from where no case had been registered till now. Earlier, a pregnant woman from Dobi Nagar had come for delivery, tested positive and some of her family members and close contacts also turned out to be positive. After the death of 22-year-old from Parvati Nagar on Wednesday, 151 persons were quarantined. The NMC team led by assistant commissioner Kiran Bagde traced and quarantined another 80 persons on Thursday. Samples of all these were collected and reports will come in next few days. GMCH doctors said, “Three patients were admitted for SARI treatment. As per ICMR guidelines, all patients having SARI are tested for Covid-19. We are regularly collecting samples and testing SARI patients. But for the first time, three of them have tested positive,” they said. Their details, including localities of the three patients, could not be known. Sources from GMCH said the patients are from different areas and do not come under containment zones in existence. This indicates Covid-19 is spreading into other parts of the city, with three more areas added to list of containment zones on Thursday. Till now, positive persons have been registered from 17 localities. If three SARI patients are identified from different localities, number will increase to 20. Four RPF staffers ‘home quarantined’ Four staffers of Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Central Railway have been sent to home quarantine on Thursday by senior officials as a preventive measure. The RPF personnel had gone for escort duty in one of the parcel trains. One of their colleagues from a different section later tested Covid-19 positive. In order to prevent spread, the RPF senior officials had asked the staffers to remain home quarantined at their respective barracks at Ajni and Motibagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/106-ve-in-two-days-mominpura-surpasses-satranjipura/articleshow/75612053.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi DM writes letters in Garhwali to spread awareness about Covid-19||UTTARKASHI: To spread awareness about Covid-19, the district magistrate of Uttarkashi, Ashish Chauhan, who is a native of Rajasthan, has penned letters in Garhwali, asking villagers in the district to follow social distancing and other guidelines. In the letters, which were sent to gram pradhans and circulated in social media, the DM also appealed to people to show sympathy and offer help to migrants coming from outside Talking to TOI, Chauhan said, “We have been able to protect Uttarkashi from the Covid-19 pandemic successfully. However, we need maximum support from people to continue the success rate, as things will get tougher with increasing inflow of migrants in the district. Therefore, I decided to write letters in Garhwali to connect with the sentiments of villagers. ” “We have arranged institutional quarantine facility for migrants showing coronavirus symptoms, whereas other migrants will be quarantined in government schools and panchayat buildings of their respective villages. By sending letters to every gram pradhan, we have tried to avoid any mismanagement in the villages, as they might get frightened or get over excited to see their migrant relatives,” he added. Meanwhile, locals have appreciated the effort of the DM. Chairman of Red Cross Society Ajay Puri said, “It is a thoughtful gesture for the DM to write to village heads in Garhwali, as it will bring home the message of social distancing and other protocols to be followed effectively.” District president of gram pradhan sangathan Pratap Rawat said, “The DM's letter has boosted the morale of villagers, who were feeling distressed during this crisis. It has also made us aware of the safety guidelines to be followed and precautions to be taken. All villagers are commited to offering support to both the administration and migrants who are returning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkashi-dm-writes-letters-in-garhwali-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19/articleshow/75608075.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 8, 2020||Business||Vasant Nangia is CEO of Chumbak||Lifestyle brand Chumbak Design has appointed Vasant Nangia as CEO. Prior to this, Nangia was managing Fossil Group's Asia-Pacific business. He spent many years with Titan and Tanishq and then started a jewellery brand called Oyzterbay that was acquired by Fossil. Chumbak founder Vivek Prabhakar will continue as head of marketing and digital, and co-founder Shubhra Chaddha will continue to head product and design. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vasant-nangia-is-ceo-of-chumbak/articleshow/75609567.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Minor sisters in K’taka to reunite with parents in Sirohi after 52 days||Hubballi: Ten-year-old Romu Kumari and her sister Posu, 7, will be reunited with their parents after 52 days as the lockdown kept the family apart — the siblings staying with a relative here and the parents in Rajasthan. Moved by their story shared on social media, the district administration arranged for the children to travel to Sirohi in Rajasthan by car with two people accompanying them. The journey of more than 1,300km is expected to take about 26 hours, with a halt in Surat. They are likely to reach on Friday or Saturday. The girls’ father, Talasaram Bhilvas, runs a Rajasthani chat centre in Durgadbail in Hubballi. While Talasaram has been in Hubballi for 10-14 years, his wife Manju Devi and children moved in January this year as the family decided to settle here. On March 16, Talasaram and his wife had to return to their native village, Bag in Sirohi district, for a funeral. They left Romu and Posu with a relative in Hubballi, promising to be back soon. To their shock, a week later, the PM had announced a nationwide lockdown, and all public transport came to a halt. “We did not bring the children with us as it is a long journey and the tickets are expensive,” said Manju Devi. “We have been speaking to them over phone daily since we came here. They have been crying and asking us to come to Hubballi soon. We tried to get permission to travel but failed and were wondering what to do since the lockdown has been extended till May 17. I’m very relieved and happy that they are coming to us now.” “We were very sad and Posu was crying most of the time,” said Romu, who studies in Class 2. “We used to play on the terrace to pass the time. We are very happy to go home to our parents finally.” Sangam Hanji, a social worker, posted an account of the family’s ordeal on social media and sought help from district administration. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan arranged for transport and deputed tahsildar Shasidhar Madyal to ensure the family was reunited. “Pass arrangements have been made after consulting with officials in Rajasthan. I was concerned about their safety and care during the long journey so asked for a woman to accompany them. Fruits and other refreshments for the journey have also been provided,” the DC said. “My friend Ramesh agreed to drop the children to Rajasthan and come back. After the district authorities requested that a woman also accompany them, Ramesh’s brother’s wife Bhavana stepped forward,” Hanji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-sisters-in-ktaka-to-reunite-with-parents-in-sirohi-after-52-days/articleshow/75612020.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 8, 2020||Patna||Wife dead, man held on dowry charges in Patna||PATNA: A 30-year-old man was arrested in Patna after his wife was found dead at their home in Shivpuri under Shastri Nagar police station area on Thursday. The couple, Manish Kumar and Anita Devi, were marred in 2017. Shastri Nagar SHO Vimlendu said, “An FIR for dowry death was lodged against Manish and his parents on the basis of a statement recorded by the 25-year-old woman’s father Mangleshwar Kumar Rai.” The deceased was originally from Naubatpur in western Patna. The SHO added, “ The girl’s father reached Shivpuri in the wee hours of Thursday after someone informed him that her daughter’s condition was not good. Rai found his daughter lying dead inside a room where she lived with her husband. A ligature mark was seen around her neck creating a strong suspicion that she may have been strangulated to death.” Vimlendu further said the father had alleged that Anita was being pressured by her husband and in-laws for a sports bike and around Rs 5 lakh and was tortured for it and was allegedly killed for the same reason. The SHO said the couple have a one-and-half-year-old girl child. “The body was handed over to Rai after post-mortem and further investigation were on in the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wife-dead-man-held-on-dowry-charges/articleshow/75609940.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: With migrant workers back home, local labourers demand more wages||JAIPUR: The departure of labourers has affected the functioning of industries in Vishwakarma Industrial Area (VKI) in Jaipur. Due to shortage of workers, the local labourers are demanding more money for the work. The problem is so acute that industries are finding it difficult to get labourers for simple loading and unloading job. Earlier, these labourers were taking Rs 250 to Rs 400 per day. But now, they are demanding Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day for loading and unloading the commodities. TOI on Thursday spoke to various labourers, industry and factory owners at VKI which are mainly involved in the production of pulses and edible oil. “We are left with almost negligible labourers for loading and unloading of our goods. Earlier, labour cost was Rs 250 to Rs 400 per day for loading and unloading work, but it has now increased to Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day,” said Sitaram Agarwal, an industrialist and president of Rajasthan Steel Chamber, on Thursday. He added that labourers from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are hard working and many of them were on pay rolls in various factories and industries. “Now, we are facing acute shortage of labourers engaged in the production of goods and loading and unloading of material,” said Arun Agarwal, executive president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI). However, labourers said that they were not getting their salaries on time which is the reason why they are looking to return to their native places. “Industries remained closed almost for a month since lockdown. Now, we are planning to move and return to our native places,” said Purab Kumar, a labourer working at a VKI-based factory involved into polishing of pulses. Increased wages of the labourers has also affected the Muhana Mandi, the biggest wholesale market of fruits and vegetables. “We are into loading and unloading on our own since labourers are asking for Rs 800 to Rs 1,200 per day for the job, said Pappu Lal Prajapat, a wholesale dealer of fruits and vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-migrant-workers-back-home-local-labourers-demand-more-wages/articleshow/75621136.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 5th coronavirus death, reports eight more cases||PATNA: Bihar recorded its fifth Covid-19 fatality on Thursday with the death of a 70-year-old man at the Narayan Medical College and Hospital at Hamuhar in Rohtas district on Thursday. The man’s test report came after his death earlier in the day. The state also recorded eight new cases on Thursday, including a 60-year-old retired BMP jawan in Patna. The total cases now stand at 550 while there are 327 active cases and 218 have recovered so far. Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19, confirmed the death and said, “The man from Rohtas district had a history of tuberculosis and was having breathing problems.” She attributed old age as another reason for weak immunity of the deceased. Sources claimed he was referred from Sasaram Sadar hospital to the Narayan Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday. “His sample was sent on Wednesday and we got the report by around 2pm on Thursday. However, he died early morning between 3 to 4am,” said Rohtas DM Pankaj Dixit, adding, “His last rites will be performed following the standard operating procedure set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research.” So far, five Covid-19 positive people have died in Bihar and all of them had comorbidities. While two were suffering from cancer, one was suffering from serious complications related to brain and another had chronic kidney problems. As per information shared by health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, of the total cases reported on Thursday, two are from Sasaram in Rohtas and one each from Madanpur in Aurangabad, Bharthua in Jehanabad, Garhwa in Sheohar, Kishanganj Town and Bhagalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-5th-virus-death-reports-eight-more-cases/articleshow/75609880.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 8, 2020||Business||Co-founder of Swiggy quits, to start Pesto||Bengaluru: Rahul Jaimini, one of the co-founders of Swiggy, is leaving, according to an announcement by the food delivery startup’s co-founder and CEO Sriharsha Majety. Nandan Reddy is the other founding member of the Bengaluru-based firm. Jaimini, who joined Majety and Nandan Reddy to start Swiggy in 2014, is joining as a co-founder of Pesto, a startup that reskills engineers on an income-sharing-agreement (ISA) model. Pesto, started by Ayush Jaiswal in 2019, raised $2 million from Matrix Partners last year. Though relatively new, ISA as a concept is slowly expanding in the country. “So, while Rahul will no longer be involved in day-to-day responsibilities at Swiggy, he will continue to be a board member and a shareholder at the company,” Majety added in his post. Jaimini, who previously has worked at Myntra, was looking after the technology of the platform. Pesto did not immediately comment on Jaimini’s role in the startup. In 2018, Swiggy rival Zomato’s co-founder Pankaj Chaddah had also quit the venture to launch a startup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/co-founder-of-swiggy-quits-to-start-pesto/articleshow/75609636.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar changes tack, to go for 1,000 random Covid-19 tests a day||PATNA: With the increase in inflow of migrants to Bihar, the state government has decided to go for a new strategy to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic — random samplings of 1,000 migrants in a day with focus on those coming from red zones. And, one of the major weapons in this new strategy will be the use of Truenat machines, which are used to test drug resistant Tuberculosis (TB). CM Nitish Kumar has directed that the procurement of these units be expedited. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said the change in strategy has been initiated keeping in mind migrants who are coming back in large numbers. “Now we are concentrating more on migrants. Also locally we are not getting many positive cases. We are going to do random testing because many positive cases are asymptomatic,” he said, adding, “We will go for one thousand random tests in a day and have started this process from Thursday.” Sanjay further said migrants coming to Bihar have been classified into three categories, depending from which zones they are coming, red, orange or green. Those coming from red zones will be tested on priority basis. “District magistrates have been told to go for smart random testing. That is, even though random testing has to be done, officials will stress on migrants who have come from red zones and even among them those who are above 60 years,” he added. It is estimated that around 27 lakh migrants are stranded outside the state in this lockdown. Approximately two lakh had come back before the issuing of the May 1 guideline by the Centre. Sanjay said Truenat machines will be used for the first time in Bihar for screening of Covid-19 cases. “Thirty machines have been given by the Centre and the state is procuring 10 on its own. Fifteen of these machines are on way and are expected to reach Bihar on Friday. Each district hospital will get one machine. If a sample tests negative on Truenat, it means no coronavirus. But if a sample tests positive on this machine, then it will be again tested on RT-PCR,” said Sanjay, adding, 40 to 42 samples can be tested on one machine in a day. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on April 10 validated the use of Truenat machine for Covid-19 test. So far, only reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method was being used in Bihar for Covid-19 test. As per the information shared by state health society, 29841 samples had been tested till Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-changes-tack-to-go-for-1k-random-tests-a-day/articleshow/75609837.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: With migrant workers back home, local labourers demand more wages||JAIPUR: The departure of labourers has affected the functioning of industries in Vishwakarma Industrial Area (VKI) in Jaipur. Due to shortage of workers, the local labourers are demanding more money for the work. The problem is so acute that industries are finding it difficult to get labourers for simple loading and unloading job. Earlier, these labourers were taking Rs 250 to Rs 400 per day. But now, they are demanding Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day for loading and unloading the commodities. TOI on Thursday spoke to various labourers, industry and factory owners at VKI which are mainly involved in the production of pulses and edible oil. “We are left with almost negligible labourers for loading and unloading of our goods. Earlier, labour cost was Rs 250 to Rs 400 per day for loading and unloading work, but it has now increased to Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day,” said Sitaram Agarwal, an industrialist and president of Rajasthan Steel Chamber, on Thursday. He added that labourers from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are hard working and many of them were on pay rolls in various factories and industries. “Now, we are facing acute shortage of labourers engaged in the production of goods and loading and unloading of material,” said Arun Agarwal, executive president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI). However, labourers said that they were not getting their salaries on time which is the reason why they are looking to return to their native places. “Industries remained closed almost for a month since lockdown. Now, we are planning to move and return to our native places,” said Purab Kumar, a labourer working at a VKI-based factory involved into polishing of pulses. Increased wages of the labourers has also affected the Muhana Mandi, the biggest wholesale market of fruits and vegetables. “We are into loading and unloading on our own since labourers are asking for Rs 800 to Rs 1,200 per day for the job, said Pappu Lal Prajapat, a wholesale dealer of fruits and vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-migrant-workers-back-home-local-labourers-demand-more-wages/articleshow/75612029.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||After 21 days of quarantine, 65 sanitation workers of Doiwala set to resume work today||Dehradun: After spending over 21 days in quarantine, 65 sanitation workers, of the total 120, at the Doiwala municipal council are expected to return to work from Friday. The officials said that the workers have tested negative for novel coronavirus on May 5 by the team of doctors. The workers were quarantined in Keshavpuri and Rajeev Nagar localities after two cases were reported from there. The workers, however, continued to work in these two wards. Vijay Chauhan, executive officer of Doiwala municipal council, said, "It will be a big relief to us as in the absence of more than 50% of the sanitation staff, managing the daily operation had become very difficult. In one ward, at least four workers are required for sanitation and other daily jobs. With the additional task of daily sanitisation of areas with sodium hypochlorite, and door-to-door waste collection, we are under tremendous pressure." "We will run another thermal scan on all the 65 sanitation workers after which they will be deployed across 20 wards from Friday. We are recording the temperature of every sanitation worker before they are sent to work every day. In addition, training session are also being conducted for them as precautionary measures," Chauhan added. Doiwala municipal council has a total strength of 120 sanitation workers against a population of over 70,000 people. “The sanitation workers are looking after a very large area. We have to ensure that each worker has a soap, sanitizer, gloves and mask with them,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-21-days-of-quarantine-65-sanitation-workers-of-doiwala-set-to-resume-work-today/articleshow/75608105.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hubballi||MGNREGA work begins in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Labourers hit by the Covid-19 pandemic heaved a sigh of relief as work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) began in Hubballi taluk on Thursday. Those who returned to villages from cities have been enrolled for jobs under MGNREGA. Labourers took oath to maintain social distancing before work on building a bund in the agriculture field started in Umachagi gram panchayat limits. They were briefed about MGNREGA, Kayaka Mitra app and five formulas of Covid-19 to be followed at the workplace. Taluk panchayat assistant director Gangadhar Kandkur said the department has set the target of creating 4.60 lakh man-days for this year. About 12,000 man-days have been created so far. “In Hubballi taluk, farm ponds, bunds, cattle sheds and construction of Ashraya houses are under the scheme. For these, 90 man-days are being provided,” he said. Kandkur said the aim is to complete the construction of bund for all farm ponds and check-dams before the onset of monsoon so that rainwater could be stored. The labourers are being paid Rs 285 per day. Kandkur said at least 40 labourers are available for MGNREGA works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mgnrega-work-begins-in-hubballi/articleshow/75602258.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||VMC not to confirm deaths until declared by audit panel||Vadodara: Nineteen more Covid-19 cases were reported in the city even as one person who had tested positive died due to the disease. While sources in the GMERS, Gotri Hospital confirmed the death, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that details of deceased will now be declared only after an audit by death audit committees appointed on instructions of the state government.VMC said in a release that deaths will now be declared only after the audit report is studied in consultations with the government. A committee of a community medicine expert, clinical expert and critical care expert was appointed at GMERS and SSG Hospital to evaluate deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-not-to-confirm-deaths-until-declared-by-audit-panel/articleshow/75609614.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra unlikely to rollout rapid test kits: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said Maharashtra will not roll out Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs) and instead will focus on increasing the number of RT-PCR testing centres and reducing the number of containment zones. Tope said the test kits were nixed after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) expressed doubts over their efficacy. The ICMR on April 27 had asked states to suspend use of RTKs after it discovered massive variations in test results. The kits were imported from China and supplied to the states after approval from ICMR. “But we may end up not using these kits at all as ICMR is now not convinced about the results from these kits," the minister told TOI. The state, Tope said, will now increase the number of RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) testing centres to about 75 from the existing 54. Authorities will also ensure stringent monitoring within containment zones. “We currently have 975 containment zones. Efforts will be made to reduce that number," the health minister said. Maharashtra is also currently carrying our 8,000 to 9,000 tests every day. And with just 10 days to go for the end of the national lockdown's third phase, Tope said authorities will pivot focus towards slum areas in the coming days. Most of the cases being reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Aurangabad are from the densely populated zones. The top health official said while villages have been relatively free of infection, all efforts would be made to ensure orange zones turn to green and green zones stay free of new (index) cases. “We have lined up massive surveillance with special stress on those with comorbidities and the elderly. If we need to isolate people, railway authorities are ready to give us coaches that can be converted into treatment units," he said. The minister said the state's death rate — currently at 4% — will be reduced further through increased surveillance and timely detection of severely ill patients. Tope said he forsees a further rise in cases but added that he remains confident of a flattening curve if "steps are taken in the right direction". The minister said the decision was made to open up liquor shops and other stores to protect the economy from damage. He urged citizens to maintain social distancing guidelines after lockdown rules are relaxed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-unlikely-to-rollout-rapid-test-kits-tope/articleshow/75612038.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: In just 11 days, areas in PMC limits add 1,000 Covid-19 cases||PUNE: The first 1,000 Covid-19 cases within the Pune Municipal Corporation limits emerged over a period of 48 days. But the most recent batch of 1,000 cases was added within just 11 days. By Wednesday, the number of positive cases within PMC limits had hit the 2,000 mark. The new tally takes the number of cases within the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) — including PMC, PCMC, and rural areas — beyond the 2,300 mark. But besides the increase in positive cases, authorities have also reported an increase in the number of cured patients. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC said in the past seven days, over 50 patients have been cured and discharged daily. “Active positive cases against the total positive is now 65%. On April 28, it was 79%. Efforts are underway to further reduce the positive case load,” Agarwal added. A total of 665 Covid-19 patients were discharged until Wednesday within the PMR. The number included 584 from the PMC limits, 56 from PCMC limits and 25 from rural areas. Since the beginning of this month, nearly 313 patients have been declared infection-free and discharged within PMC limits. The first two cases within PMC limits emerged on March 9 after a couple who had returned from a trip to Dubai tested positive. Since then, the PMC area has witnessed a steady increase in cases. Detection too has gone up significantly in the past two weeks with more than 50% cases being added to the tally. Data released by the district heath office indicates the PMC area crossed 500 Covid-19 cases on April 18 and breached the 1,000-mark on April 25. The jump to 2,000 cases came in just 11 days with a daily average addition of 90 cases. Officials with the PMC said the corporation's containment plan hopes to arrest the spread the infection. While much of the sealing has been removed now, 69 micro-clusters with a high number of positives have been identified by authorities. Most of these micro-clusters have formed within the jurisdictions of five civic wards, including Bhavani Peth, Shivajinagar, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, Kasba-Vishrambaug and Dhole Patil road. The administration has boosted contact tracing, surveillance and health screenings at these locations. On May 6, the were 86 positive cases reported within PMC limits. On May 5 and May 4 the fresh case load was 65 and 64 respectively. The increase in the number of cases is also due to ramped up testing, contact tracing and screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-just-11-days-areas-in-pmc-limits-add-1000-covid-cases/articleshow/75612047.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 8, 2020||Goa||Revised Goa University circular includes six other courses||PANAJI: The revised terms for the new academic year 2019-20 issued by Goa University on May 5 will also be applicable for the bachelor of education, bachelor of physical education, bachelor of performing art, bachelor of social work, master of education and master of performing art programmes. Earlier, circular said that the norms are applicable for general stream undergraduate programmes of BA, BSc (including home science), BSc BEd, BA Bed, BCom, BBA and BCA. As per the revised terms for undergraduate programmes, the summer vacations will upto May 31. The second term has been extended upto July 31. The regular examinations will be held from June 22 to July 15 and the new academic year 2020-21 will begin from August 1. The varsity has said that no student appearing for these examinations will be detained from moving to the next semester. Students shall have an opportunity to improve their grades through supplementary examinations. The timetables for the various examinations in the current semester shall be prepared by the respective colleges depending upon the number of students ensuring that social distancing is maintained. The colleges have been told to conduct the examinations in two or three shifts per day taking into consideration the space and infrastructural facilities. There will be no revaluation or challenge evaluation of papers for TY. Instead, the provision of personal verification available in the ordinance and provided to FY and SY students shall be followed by TY students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revised-gu-circular-includes-six-other-courses/articleshow/75612061.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Two cameras go missing from CTR, admin on alert||Nainital: The Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) administration has been put on alert after two cameras set up in the Kalagarh range of the park were stolen. The disappearance of the cameras comes in the midst of an alert sounded by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau that some poachers of the notorious Bawaria gang might be active around the tiger reserve. The CTR which has the highest number of tigers in the country has been conducting a count of big cats. These cameras trap the movement of tigers and, therefore, are instrumental in counting their numbers. At present, there are around 500 cameras in the reserve, and according to the reserve officials, each of them covers 2 sqkm of the forest. Speaking to TOI, CTR director Rahul said that the cameras were likely to have been stolen almost a week ago but its disappearance became known only during a routine checkup on Thursday. "Our staff keeps conducting these routine checks. During one of these checks, we discovered that two cameras had gone missing. We have initiated a search and have apprehended a few people. The cameras have now been recovered but we are still questioning the accused," Rahul said. According to the alert by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, some members of notorious Bawaria gang have gone missing from their homes and are active around CTR. In 2016, one of the gang's members was arrested with five tiger skins. The gang has been operating in CTR and adjoining Lansdowne area for years. The CTR administration, however, said that they are on a high alert and its officials are making rounds to avert any poaching attempt. "Our officials and forest guards are patrolling the most vulnerable areas of the reserve. Till now, we have not seen any attempt by the gang to infiltrate here but we are questioning the people we have apprehended and trying to find if they have any association with the gang," Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-cameras-go-missing-from-ctr-admin-on-alert/articleshow/75608158.cms||Prashant Jha
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: VFPCK launches online booking of farming kits||KOCHI: Within a week of launching the ‘vegetable challenge’ to promote kitchen gardens, Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) is all set to expand its campaign by accepting online bookings. VFPCK has received orders for 5,000 kits from individuals and groups since the inauguration of the vegetable challenge on Saturday. Residents associations have been booking in large numbers as the kit is compact and people can grow in balconies too. The kits handed out in a cotton bag have grow bags, vegetable seeds, neem oil, coir compost, and organic manure. A kit with seven items costs Rs 250 kit while a kit with ll items, including additional organic manure, can be bought for Rs 600. In order to push for more community activity and increase production of home-grown vegetables, VFPCK is also offering home delivery of vegetable kits for bulk orders of 30 kits or more. Following an increase in enquiries from other districts, the Kochi-headquartered VFPCK has decided to launch online sale. Booking can be made on the website vfpckonline.com or people can go to the district VFPCK offices to collect their kits. For details, contact 9497713883. Kits will also be available at VFPCK Krishi Business Kendras in Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, seed processing centre at Alathur, Palakkad, and the hi-tech vegetable seedling production centre at Nadukkara, Ernakulam. For farmers looking at large-scale production, VFPCK has offered its technical expertise to help them manage their cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vfpck-launches-online-booking-of-farming-kits/articleshow/75609714.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||IGNOU postpones June examinations||Panaji: The Indira Gandhi Open University (IGNOU), which conducts its term end examinations in June and December every year, has postponed its June exams due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, G Shrinivas, assistant regional director of Goa centre, said. The exams were scheduled to commence from June 1. The new exam schedule will be announced later taking cognisance of the situation, and students will be informed at least 15 days in advance, Shrinivas said. As per order of the IGNOU vice-chancellor, the dates of submission of assignments, examination form submission and readmission have been extended upto May 31, in view of the issues faced by learners due to the continued lockdown. The project submission process has also been made online, for which guidelines will be issued by IGNOU separately. IGNOU has already started accepting scanned copies of handwritten home assignments through email, Shrinivas informed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ignou-postpones-june-examinations/articleshow/75612070.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Seven more succumb to contagion, 161 test positive in Pune||PUNE: Seven more people, all aged above 60, succumbed to Covid-19 and 161 tested positive for the contagion in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday. With this, the casualty and case counts have increased to 134 and 2,461, respectively, in PMR. Besides, 97 patients were cured and discharged from various hospitals and quarantine facilities on Thursday. According to the civic administration, all the deceased were male. While six of them died at various private hospitals in the city, a 78-year-old man from Ganj Peth died at the Sassoon hospital. The other deceased included a 60-year-old man from Ganj Peth, two men aged 65 and 66 from Bhavani Peth, a 70-year-old man from Laxminagar in Yerawada, a 75-year-old man from Ashoknagar in Yerawada and a 69-year-old man from Kondhwa Budruk. All deceased had co-morbidities. As for the positive cases, highest 129 cases were reported in Pune municipal area, followed by rural parts (26) and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (6). PMC officials said the testing and swab collection had gone up in last few days, which led to the rise in positive cases. When it comes to PCMC limits, 77 patients were still undergoing treatment at various facilities on Thursday. A total of 84 people were quarantined in PCMC limits on Thursday, taking count of quarantined people to 4,807 so far. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-more-succumb-to-contagion-161-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75612060.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police stop checking vehicles in non-containment areas for e-passes||PUNE: The city police on Thursday stopped checking vehicles in the non-containment zones for digital passes. The police also stopped telling shopkeepers to close their establishments before the prescribed timings. Late on Wednesday evening, city police commissioner K Venkatesham had posted a tweet on his official Twitter handle stating that the field staff has been intimated about the orders passed by the Pune municipal commissioner regarding shop timings in the non-containment and containment areas and the district collector’s order regarding sale of fuel to people without the requirement of an e-pass or I-card. The tweet did not make any mention about his position on e-passes for vehicles in the non-containment areas and on Thursday too, the police chief preferred silence. “I don’t want to speak anything on this matter,” Venkatesham insisted when contacted by TOI on phone. A senior police officer said “We are following all the guidelines issued by the Pune municipal commissioner and no action is being taken against any shopkeeper in the non-containment areas. The number of vehicles has increased on the city roads due to relaxation in lockdown norms.” He added, “As such, checking e-passes is not possible as it will cause traffic snarls at the check points. We are, however, maintaining a strict vigil in and around the containment zones and also the buffer zone between the containment and the non-containment areas.” The TOI on Thursday visited areas along the Pune-Satara road, Sinhagad road, Camp and Navi Peth, among others and none of the police personnel posted at the check points demanded e-passes for verification or asked reason for travel. In Pimpri Chinchwad, a senior police officer said, “The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has permitted shops selling essential commodities in the non-containment areas to operate between 10am and 4pm. We are following these timings.” R R Patil, assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad, said the police never forced anyone to down their shutters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-stop-checking-vehicles-in-non-containment-areas-for-e-passes/articleshow/75612072.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Dial in to help a girl child realise her dreams||CHENNAI: R Abinaya, who lives in Arani, dreams of becoming a maths teacher. But coming from an economically challenged background, the Class 10 student has few role models around her that she can emulate. That’s why, to encourage girls like her and give them a window to another world, Aarti Madhusudan launched ‘Call And Connect’, an initiative wherein women from various walks of life volunteer to make three phone calls to a girl child being supported by an NGO. “The idea is to see give girl children who come from underprivileged backgrounds an opportunity to talk to someone who is very different from the people she usually interacts with,” says Aarti. “Right now, the world is shifting to non-physical communication, this is a safe, learning opportunity.” The volunteer just has to place three calls within 10 days. And the interaction gives the child the confidence to talk to a stranger. “The girls are aged 13 to 18 and we have told them that if they feel uncomfortable, they can hang up and block the number,” says Aarti, who has tied up with several city NGOs – ASSCOD, Team Everest, Arunodhaya, Nalandaway, Chudar and Sevalaya --that work with the underprivileged. The kind of interaction that takes place depends entirely on the rapport the duo strikes. And the initiative has been successful so far. When Aarti put out an appeal for women who can speak Tamil to volunteer, 377 women signed up. And many of them have gone on to offer a helping hand to the girls they have interacted with. Uthra Dorairajan, HOD, physics department, DG Vaishnav College, for instance, signed up for the programme as she has been mentoring young people as part of her work. And, after interacting with a Class 12 student, she has committed to helping the girl with her college admissions. “She wants to be a lawyer or study physics but doesn’t know how to fill online applications. Since she doesn’t have any extra books to study, I asked her to go back to her science books from Class 10 and 11 and strengthen her foundation,” says Uthra. The children have also been enjoying the interaction. “A woman who works in a company called me,” says Abinaya. “In the first call, we introduced ourselves and by the second one she told me stories.” Encouraged by the success, Aarti is extending its scope. “We have tied up with two organisations -- YOU are IDEA Foundation in Pune and Deepalaya in Delhi, and are looking out for women volunteers who can speak Hindi,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dial-in-to-help-a-girl-child-realise-her-dreams/articleshow/75612064.cms||Priya Menon
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Mentally ill software engineer, who was living as beggar in Haridwar, rescued||Haridwar: A 32-year-old software engineer from Odisha, was found living as a beggar in Haridwar and was rescued by police with the help of a social activist. The man, identified as K Bhawani Shankar Patro, was later reunited with his family on Thursday, after the police managed to trace his family address through Facebook. Patro used to work as a software engineer in Hyderabad at a software company and had come to Haridwar before lockdown. Police said that he seemed to have lost his memory and had become mentally unstable. A social activist Anurag Sharma, who first spotted him, told TOI, “He was quite different from others and his language and dialect was also not common. He looked like an educated person. That’s why I informed the police.” Circle officer, Haridwar, Abhay Singh told TOI, “ Fortunately, Patro was able to remember his brother’s name, after which we searched for him through social media platforms. We shortlisted a few accounts and showed him their photos. Patro was able to identify his brother, after which we approached his family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mentally-ill-software-engineer-who-was-living-as-beggar-in-haridwar-rescued/articleshow/75608216.cms||MS Nawaz
May 8, 2020||Goa||Varsity: No detention for engg degree course students||Panaji: Goa University in a new circular has said that students of the degree programme in engineering, who appear for exams for the current academic year 2019-20 in June-July, should not be detained from moving to the next semester. Earlier, similar instructions were issued to colleges offering general stream undergraduate programmes. “Such students shall have to clear the examinations for the course/s in which he/she has failed, whenever the examination is held next. Such students shall also have an opportunity to improve their grades by appearing for the current semester course(s) in the succeeding semesters/years or through supplementary examinations,” Goa University registrar YV Reddy has said in a circular. The results of semester I to IV will be declared by the colleges and from semester V to VII by the university, the circular states. The university has said that the duration of each examination shall be of maximum two hours. Examinations that are currently of over two hours shall be conducted with reduced marks. The marks will then be scaled up to meet the maximum marks requirements, reads the circular. The syllabus completed through digital learning after the suspension of classes should be included as additional choice in the semester end examinations for the students of the ongoing semester, Goa University has said. “Paper setting and examination schedules and time table for all repeat examinations (semester I-VIII) for the RC 2007-08 and RC 2016-17 programmes shall be centralised and done by the university. However, the colleges shall carry out the evaluation of the answerbooks,” the GU has said. In the case of outstation and foreign students, engineering colleges too, like for other UG programmes, have been asked to hold special exams, where these students are unable to answer exams held due to their absence from Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/varsity-no-detention-for-engg-degree-course-students/articleshow/75612075.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospital’s dilemma over Covid-19 moms’ newborns||KOLKATA: Three infants — all girls — born to Covid-19 positive mothers have the authorities of MR Bangur Hospital in a fix — whether to keep the babies with the mothers or discharge them to prevent transmission from their mothers. Eventually, the hospital administration decided to go by the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to let the babies stay so that they could be breastfed. The country’s top medical research body said that there are no recorded cases of breastmilk testing positive for Covid-19. “Though doctors were divided in their opinion, we decided to let the girls be with their mothers. Breastfeeding is very important for a newborn baby because it will give them the immunity they need to fight any infection,” Partha Guha, acting superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital, told TOI. Two of the babies are three days old and one is four-day-old. Their mothers tested Covid positive after delivering them at KPC Medical College and Hospital at Jadavpur and were transferred to MR Bangur Hospital on Wednesday. On Thursday, MR Bangur doctors, recommended that the babies shouldn’t be separated from the mothers. The babies’ swab samples have been sent to check their Covid-19 status.” So, the nursing mothers have masked and sanitized themselves. They are asymptomatic, Guha said, and housed in the women’s isolation ward. Queene Aditya, a gynaecologist with Narayan Memorial Hospital, said, “The hospital’s predicament is understandable. But the benefits of breastfeeding outweighs any other inherent risk of contagion. Yet, the fear of the baby contacting infection from the mother is always there because physical proximity is part of breastfeeding. Express milk could be an option, but for that, too, the baby needs to be near the mother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-dilemma-over-covid-moms-newborns/articleshow/75611226.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: South Point alumni shoot 7-minute video, pay tribute to nature||KOLKATA: Former students of South Point High School from across the globe came together on an online platform during the lockdown to shoot a seven-minute music video that paid tribute to nature and its various facets. Among these former students are Suranjan Das, vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, Kunal Basu, writer, Bedabrata Pain, scientist and filmmaker, Rajat Ganguly, actor, Aniruddha Roy Choudhury, filmmaker, Tanmoy Bose, musician, Arnab Gupta, surgical oncologist, Chandrabali Rudra Datta, singer, Amitava Chanda, neurosurgeon, Papia Adhikari, actor, Bhaswar Chatterjee, actor, Pratim D Gupta, filmmaker, Urmila Bhowmik, dancer, Abhijit Dasgupta, filmmaker and several others. Shot with hand-held devices, “Bhebhe Dekhecho Ki?” acknowledges the blessings of nature and asks for “her mercy” to overcome the pandemic. The concept for the video came from Sutapa Chaterjee while Santanu Mukherjee wrote the script and Utsav Dan edited and directed it. “This is a spontaneous effort by about 35 former students of South Point High School, who are living in different parts of the globe. They have come forward with a common intention to express their feelings and creativity for humanity in time of the present crisis. From conception to execution, it took us about 15 days, during which everyone recorded their respective portions on mobiles and tablets. The entire video was compiled, edited and finished in-house,” said Krishna Damani, president, South Point Ex-students’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-point-alumni-shoot-7-minute-video-pay-tribute-to-nature/articleshow/75611221.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Ariyalur folk want ban on liquor sales to continue||TRICHY: A day after Ariyalur district registered 188 cases, the opening of Tasmac outlets has not gone well with the public. They have demanded a blanket ban similar to Chennai on sale of liquor to prevent people from stepping out, and avoid fresh Covid-19 cases. “Liquor sales in Ariyalur, one of the most-affected districts is not the need of the hour now. The risk of daily wagers stepping out to buy liquor is high. It may further increase the spread of Covid-19,” A Thirumurugan, a native of Veppankuzhi said. The Ariyalur district administration maintained that out of 53 Tasmac outlets, only 29 were opened. Meanwhile, the Perambalur district administration has opened 31 out of the total 35 Tasmac shops. Liquor shops in containment zones were closed. “We are ensuring social distancing at the Tasmac outlets through local police stations and volunteers. Liquor was sold to only those who were wearing a mask,” a district administration official said. With a majority of loadmen having returned from Koyambedu, a Covid-19 hotspot, villagers have criticised the decision to reopen Tasmac outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ariyalur-folk-want-ban-on-liquor-sales-to-continue/articleshow/75611218.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 8, 2020||Pune||Officials to decide if teachers can travel for answer sheets||PUNE: State education commissioner Vishal Solanki said on Thursday that it was for the police and the local administration to take a call on the movement of teachers within red and containment zones for collection of answer sheets from the designated centres as well as their submission. On Monday, the education department had instructed teachers to start assessing the answer sheets of board examination from the confines of their homes. To facilitate this, it had requested the district administration to give special passes to teachers for travelling to the designated exam centres/ board offices for collecting answer sheets and bringing them back to the moderator post assessment. However, teachers living in various zones, marked as per the severity of Covid-19 spread, were not sure whether they would be allowed to travel to the centres for collecting answer sheets. A teacher from Mumbai division said that the decision to assess answer sheets, especially in areas with high Covid cases, is not in their best interest. "Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur etc are hotspots in Maharashtra for the disease and, hence, minimum travelling must be exercised. Moreover, all divisional boards and schools must be sanitised before teachers go to pick up or drop off answer sheets. Assessment process of other boards is not on at the moment," said the teacher. Solanki said that the board’s first priority was to declare the results as early as possible after which the department will take a decision on supplementary exams. As far as the movement of teachers was concerned, Solanki said, "It all depends on the local municipal corporation or the administration." Solanki further said that at the moment there was no standard operating procedure for teachers to venture out and collect the answer sheets. "We need to check with the medical experts about developing an SOP for checking answer sheets apart from normal precautions, such as washing hands before and after handling the papers, wearing of mask etc" he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-to-decide-if-teachers-can-travel-for-answer-sheets/articleshow/75612098.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 8, 2020||Goa||Goa wants industries but offers no plan to woo them||Panaji: In an online interaction with Assocham, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday promised to roll out the red carpet for industries looking to exit China, but offered no concrete roadmap to entice new industrial units. Sawant also promised to speak to the Centre about the liquidity crunch faced by MSMEs in Goa. “For MSMEs, there is a good environment for industries in the state of Goa. From the government’s side we are ready for all the sectors. We are fully prepared to welcome industries that want to leave China,” Sawant said during the 50-minute webinar with Assocham. Assocham national president Niranjan Hiranandani offered a reality check by pointing out that of the 40 industries which moved out of China in the last 30 days, 23 industries have been shifted to Vietnam and only two industries opted for India. “This ratio of industry, choosing India for business setup is highly alarming. We really need to focus on the ‘ease of doing business’ in order to attract more and more business to Goa,” said Hiranandani. The chief minister admitted during the webinar that Goa faces a shortage of funds and that the state government is in touch with the Union finance ministry regarding the issue. “The state government is requesting with the Cente and the Reserve Bank of India about the liquidity and the GST compensation which is an issue,” said Sawant. “I don’t know exactly how it will go, but in the long run, we are requesting the help from the finance ministry,” Sawant said. Assocham secretary general Deepak Sood, and chairman of Assocham Goa state council Manguirish Pai Raikar participated in the discussion with Sawant. Assocham offered recommendations and assistance to put Goa on the path of recovery quickly. Sawant said that the state welcomes all industries those who are ready to come to Goa, and that the Investment Promotion Board Goa is ready to offer all assistance. “We are coming up with some reforms in agriculture, especially the Agricultural Produce and Market Committee (APMC) Act, which will be friendly for the industry,” said Sawant. The chief minister also said that though Goa is “struggling” to restart iron ore mining, he hopes that in a “short span of time the solution” will be found. He had also said that Goa will start tourism activities once the lockdown is lifted Raikar urged the state to focus on building a technology park which could create employment opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-wants-industries-but-offers-no-plan-to-woo-them/articleshow/75612108.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Hope shines on Angriya, Karnika crew||Panaji: More than 90 Goan seafarers aboard Karnika and Angriya in Mumbai are likely to be signed off over the weekend and brought to Goa by road. Both the vessel owners have informed the Goa government that it intends to disembark Goan crew in Mumbai on Saturday or Sunday and send them to Goa by road, but the government is awaiting more details from Karnika. “Angriya has informed us that they intend to sign off 16 Goan crew in Mumbai and bring them by road to Goa. But Karnika has to take permission from Mumbai police for the 83 Goan crew and is yet to give us all the details of the mode of transport. We are waiting for their clear cut plans,” ports secretary P S Reddy stated. Covid-19 tests were conducted on crew of both vessels and sources say the results are all negative. “They will, however, have to undergo 14-day institution quarantine in the state as they will be passing through a red zone,” he said. The crew on board Karnika were informed on Thursday by the company that they will be signed off on Saturday, but they haven’t been given details about their quarantine in Goa, with some hoping they will be placed in home quarantine. Angriya that had responded to the government of India’s call to assist in repatriating stranded Indians has also agreed to disembark 16 Goan domiciled crew at Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hope-shines-on-angriya-karnika-crew/articleshow/75612099.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune police team tracks down 100 Covid-19 positive patients||PUNE: The city police helped the Pune Municipal Corporation track down 100 Covid-19 positive patients in the past 30 days during the contact tracing exercise. The police tracked down over 2,500 people coming in direct contact with positive patients. The information about them was passed on to the civic and medical authorities. Subsequently, these people were quarantined and checked. The Covid-19 positive patients were then shifted to hospitals. A team comprising additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale, assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar and inspector Sunil Gavali have been continuously working on details of the positive patients to contain the spread of the virus through timely intervention. The contact tracing team collected the call data records and cellphone locations of the infected persons and tracked the people who directly came in contact with the former, Morale said. The team was still tracing suspected positive persons in the city and alerting the civic officials, he said. The police identified a few employees of shopping malls, who later tested positive for the virus. Subsequently, the malls in Erandwane, Sahakarnagar and Kondhwa were sealed. The police team also tracked visitors to the malls, who came in contact with the salesmen. They were told to visit nearby hospitals to get themselves tested. Morale said the information was passed on to the civic hospital authorities without any delay. The medical teams tested these people and 100 of them tested positive. “These people had come in contact with the positive persons for only a couple of minutes. Had they been neglected, they would have infected many others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-team-tracks-down-100-covid-19-ve-patients/articleshow/75612103.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||UT cop loses Rs 20,000 in ATM card fraud||tnnChandigarh: The police on Thursday booked an unidentified person for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 20,000 from the account of a UT constable. Karnail Singh, a cook at SP headquarters and resident of Sector 22, said in his police complaint, “I received a message that Rs 10,000 were withdrawn from my account on April 20. A few minutes later, I received another Rs 10,000 withdrawal message. Bank officials told me that the transaction was made with my debit card at an ATM kiosk in Ropar.”Karnail said his card was with him and he never shared any OTP with anyone. Later, he freezed his account and submitted a complaint at SSP public window.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-cop-loses-rs-20000-in-atm-card-fraud/articleshow/75611233.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: MCH admits 4 positive Covid-19 patients on 1st day as tertiary facility||KOLKATA: Medical College Hospital (MCH) Kolkata took in four Covid-19 positive patients on Wednesday, the first day of its operation as a full-fledged tertiary-level facility for Covid-19. The hospital also got 18 new ventilator machines on Wednesday. These will be used to treat patients in need of intensive care facilities. As many as 29 Covid-19 suspects have been admitted to the hospital. Their swab samples were sent for confirmatory tests. Earlier, the hospital would shift confirmed patients to Covid-19 designated hospitals. “Our chief minister has chosen this hospital as the tertiary-level hospital for Covid-19 treatment. All departmental heads will be involved, along with junior doctors, in treating Covid patients,” said Nirmal Maji, chairperson, Rogi Kalyan Samity at MCH. On Wednesday, the hospital held an orientation programme on managing Covid patients for all senior faculty members and junior doctors. The hospital brought in tropical medicine specialist at School of Tropical Medicine Bibhuti Saha, critical care specialist Sugata Dasgupta of RG Kar Medical College and infectious disease specialist Yogiraj Rayfrom ID Hospital, Beliaghata for the programme. “Director of medical education Debasis Bhattacharyya and college principal Manjshree Banerjee, too, were present. It was part of our initiative to encourage the doctors who will be taking care of Covid patients,” said Maji. All the four Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the 200-bed super-speciality building that includes 25 CCU beds. The suspected cases or SARI patients are being admitted to the Green Building, where 150 beds have been reserved for an isolation ward. With 150 beds at the Eden Ward and 50 beds at the mother and child ward being part of the Covid hospital, sources said these could be used exclusively to treat pregnant women, many of who are turning positive during delivery. But no decision has been taken yet. As many as 20 more beds in the surgical ward will be part of the Covid facility. “The hospital has 2,200 beds. So we can raise the number of beds as and when required,” said a source in the hospital. On Wednesday, few OPD patients turned up. The hospital will stop OPD services on Thursday. But the emergency wing will continue to tend to critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mch-admits-4-ve-patients-on-1st-day-as-tertiary-facility/articleshow/75611243.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Mavadikulam tank gets Rs 1.92 crore facelift||Trichy: The district administration has sanctioned Rs 1.92 crore to desilt the Mavadikulam tank in in Ponmalaipatti and strengthen the bund. A 700m walking track will be developed around a portion of the tank. The tank, falling under ward 31 of the corporation, is fed by the New Kattalaimettu canal that branches off from Cauvery near the Mayanur check dam. Anti-social elements had been mining soil in the tank in recent times, affecting the water storage. Multiple demands were made by the residents in the past five years to revive the tank as it attracts a significant number of migratory waterbirds. Meanwhile, the district administration through the public works department (PWD) sanctioned the amount. “While desilting the tank, the administration should find a solution to prevent the discharge of wastewater into the tank,” KC Neelamegam, an environmental activist said. While the preliminary desilting work commenced on Wednesday, around 10 machines will be deployed to complete the work within two months. “The tank bed will desilted in a uniform manner to improve the water storage capacity. Tank bund will also be strengthened before the arrival of Cauvery water,” a PWD official said. Residents have urged the corporation to facilitate lights around the tank and also proposed the establishment of islands within the tank to attract migratory water birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mavadikulam-tank-gets-rs-1-92-crore-facelift/articleshow/75611231.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Six-yr-old among 11 tested positive for Covid-19 in city||Chandigarh: Eleven persons, including a six-year-old child, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Chandigarh on Thursday, taking the total to 135. While 10 of 11 cases are from Bapu Dham Colony, one is from Sector 30. Total cases in Bapu Dham now stand at 76.In the first half of the day, five cases were reported from Bapu Dham in Sector 26. The youngest is a six-year-old boy, who is the community contact of a positive case in the same locality and has eight family contacts, all of whom have been sampled. Three more residents of Bapu Dham from a family also tested positive. They are the contacts of a previously reported case from their family. Besides, a 36-year-old woman, also of the area, too, has contracted the virus. She is the community contact of a case in the same locality. In the afternoon, five more cases were reported positive at Bapu Dham, of which three belong to the same house and are community contacts of a case from the locality. Remaining two cases are family contacts of an already diagnosed positive case, said doctors. Other family members of this case have already been sampled. From Sector 30, a 12-year-old girl was reported as positive; she is the family contact of the already diagnosed positive cases. As many as 1,845 people have been sampled in the city to date, of which 1,698 tested negative. While 22 have been treated and discharged, the result of 311 is awaited.Nayagaon patient discharged A 30-year-old healthcare worker beat coronavirus and was discharged from PGIMER on Thursday. He is a resident of Nayagaon. He was admitted to NHE Covid Hospital on April 23. He had developed complications, but responded well to the treatment and remained stable thereafter. Finally, with two consecutive tests coming negative, he was discharged. He, however, will be home quarantined for 14 days, as per the standard protocol.4 of PU employees home isolatedAfter a resident of Bapu Dham, a PU security staff member, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the university asked four of its staff members to home isolate themselves. As per authorities, the positive case had not come to PU after April 23.Virus spreads tentacles in EWS colonies Chandigarh: Starting from the core urban area of the city’s Sector 21, the Covid-19 pandemic has gripped the economically-weaker section (EWS) in colonies. Over one-third of the cases have been reported from these areas as the spread of the virus is the highest in congested zones. This has not only raised a challenge for the Chandigarh administration, but also made the task tougher to ensure essentials’ supply in bulk to the thousands of residents. Over 4,200 have been home quarantined in different areas of the city (largely contacts or neighbours of positive patients) and more than half of them are in these congested colonies. Cops are also finding it tough to control the situation.After the first positive case was reported in Sector 21 on March 18, only 27 cases were seen throughout the city till March 24. But after the detection of a positive case in Bapu Dham on March 24, the virus started spreading. Before Bapu Dham detection, cases also came from the EWS Colony of Sector 30, one each from Kachchi Colony, Dhanas and Maloya. To date, around 75 cases have been reported from Bapu Dham alone. Later, cases started pouring in from other congested colonies too, like Mauli Jagran, Ram Darbar, EWS colonies of Dhanas and sectors 52 and 56.“Though the affected areas of the colonies have been sealed and regular health monitoring was being done, it has become tough to manage the situation due to the crowded living,” sources in the UT administration said. Since all these colonies are either EWS or rehabilitation settlements, the houses are small and lie cheek by jowl. Besides, the areas are thickly populated and many people live in one house.Maximum cases are from these areasBapu Dham ColonySector 52 ColonySector 56 ColonyKachchi Colony, DhanasEWS Colony, DhanasMaloya Rehabilitation Colony, Sector 30Rehabilitation Colony, RamdarbarRehabilitation Colony, Mauli Jagran||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/six-yr-old-among-11-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/75611227.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Collector cancels Arni Municipal Council’s solid waste removal tender||Yavatmal: District collector MD Singh on Thursday cancelled tender for removal of solid waste from Arni Municipal Council jurisdiction after receiving preliminary inquiry report from district administrative officer Shashimohan Nanda of municipal council department pointing out at some irregularities. The collector has directed the district administrative officer to issue show cause notice to chief officer of Arni civic body Amol Malkar to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him. According to a press release, irregularities were detected in the procedure of floating tenders and its finalization. A preliminary inquiry was ordered after former municipal council chief Ariz Baig and sitting councillor Raju Virkhede alleged corruption in awarding the tender. The complainants have alleged that none of the requisite norms was followed in awarding the tender to a Nagpur contractor. The complainants also claimed that till a couple years ago, the contract was awarded at Rs54 lakh while the current tender was passed for Rs1.77 crore. Rules regarding the tender form cost, deposit and the time schedule for finalizing the tender etc were blatantly flouted to pocket the public money under the guise of garbage management, the complainants had alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-cancels-arni-municipal-councils-solid-waste-removal-tender/articleshow/75612110.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops start probe into Jadavpur University girl’s online abuse||KOLKATA: The cybercrime department of Kolkata Police has registered a complaint following a 22-year-old Jadavpur University student’s allegation that some unknown men had outraged her modesty on social media.  “We have received her complaint and are verifying the facts. We will also speak to the victim and others she has mentioned in the complaint,” said a senior police officer. The victim, a resident of Regent Park in South Kolkata, said cops had called her up on Wednesday night after she had apprised the cybercrime department of the online abuse through email. She alleged that some unknown men had shared her pictures on Instagram and Whatsapp groups and made derogatory remarks on her body parts. The incident came a day after Delhi police had arrested the administrator of an Instagram private chat group named Bois Locker Room, where teenage boys planned gangrape and made random derogatory remarks on girls. The JU student claimed that earlier in January, she had received a text message on her Instagram chat from an unknown youth who had sent her a screenshot of a Whatsapp chat. “The screenshot had a photograph of mine where men commented on my private parts and were verbally fantasizing of sexually assaulting me. The youth told me that he was from my university. I blocked him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-start-probe-into-ju-girls-online-abuse/articleshow/75611236.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mylab ramps up capacity to 2 lakh Covid-19 tests every day||PUNE: City-based Mylab Discovery Solutions on Thursday said it has scaled up its production capacity of Covid-19 testing kits to enable 2 lakh tests every day. A single Mylab kit can test 100 samples for coronavirus. The company is now ready to produce 20,000 test kits daily. The company said the increased capacity does not mean that the quality of the test would be compromised. “Our focus on quality is more than ever. Equipped with endogenous internal control for the housekeeping gene, our kits can detect samples which were not collected, transported or processed correctly and remove false negatives,” Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, said. The two key tie-ups — with Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla and Biocon subsidiary Syngene — helped the company ramp up its manufacturing operations. Poonawalla’s multimillion-dollar investment in Mylab gave it the scale to go big, while the tie-up with Syngene helped the company to further localise the kits and reduce dependence on imports. “As production capacity increases to 2 lakh tests per day, we will now be able to meet India’s growing demand for testing completely,” Poonawalla said. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research, India had tested about 13.5 lakh samples by May 7 (9 am). The testing capacity has now been ramped up to around 80,000 tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mylab-ramps-up-capacity-to-2-lakh-tests-every-day/articleshow/75612114.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 8, 2020||Goa||Seven persons kept in isolation||Panaji: The health bulletin released by directorate of health services on Thursday stated that 229 persons were placed in facility quarantine and 386 samples tested negative for Covid-19. Seven persons were admitted in isolation ward, with five in Goa Medical College and hospital, one at North Goa district hospital, and two in the sub district hospital. Beside, Goa Tourism Development Corporation residencies, contacts have been quarantined in Ginger hotel and International Centre, Goa. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-persons-kept-in-isolation/articleshow/75612124.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||City-based firm proposes Global Safety Centre||Vadodara: In a bid to tackle pandemics effectively, a city-based firm has proposed a Global Safety Centre (GSC) to the state as well as central government. Sure Safety India Ltd (SSIL) has proposed to jointly set up the centre that will be equipped with facilities to deal with any pandemic swiftly and save lives. “After the coronavirus outbreak, we sent a proposal to the state government and Centre for setting up GSC in the city. The centre will have state-of-the-art research and development facilities, testing laboratories and capacity to produce one million face masks per month and have inventory for three months,” said Nishith Dand, managing director, SSIL. Dand said the idea came up after coronavirus outbreak and how the world was unequipped to take on this pandemic. “We are ready to jointly fund the centre with the government,” Dand told TOI. SSIL is already making personal protective equipment (PPE) that is being supplied to the state government, Centre and defence forces. “We are currently making 1.75 million PPEs per month and by next month our capacity will reach two million,” Dand added. The company has been in the business of making protective gear and equipment since many years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-based-firm-proposes-global-safety-centre/articleshow/75609646.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Cos can get workers from other states||Panaji: Paving the way for industries, especially pharmaceutical units to bring in their workers from across the border, the state government on Thursday approved a standard operating protocol for such workers to cross into Goa. The workers will be allowed into Goa based on information provided by each industrial unit. The workers be housed in a designated quarantine centre where they would also tested for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), said under secretary A S Mahatme. Mahatme said that the cost of the quarantine stay, testing and other arrangements shall be borne by the respective industrial unit. The protocol said that if the result of the Covid-19 test is negative, the employee would be allowed to move and work with his or her respective company. Each employee who enters Goa will have to submit a self declaration stating that he or she has not left his home for the last 14 days and has not come into contact with any individual who had influenza like symptoms. The worker would also need to download the Aarogya Setu app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cos-can-get-workers-from-other-states/articleshow/75612115.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Vishwajit Rane checks parameters of Panaji urban health centre||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday visited the Panaji urban health centre to assess the situation since resumption of services at the out patient department (OPD), which began on Tuesday along with OPDs at government hospitals and other centres. Rane said he conducted a thorough inspection of the OPD services at the urban centre. “Since our immunisation programme is now active, I interacted with parents to ensure that everything is under control and managed well,” Rane said. He said he has instructed officials to follow social distancing and that persons visiting the OPD must wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-checks-parameters-of-panaji-urban-health-centre/articleshow/75612129.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Dharchula residents request district administration to allow Indian citizens return from Nepal||Pithoragarh: A group of local residents and social activists of Dharchula have requested the Pithoragarh district administration to facilitate the return of Indian citizens stranded in Nepal border. Though there is no official confirmation as to how many citizens are stuck at the border, the group claims that there are more than 45 Indian citizens. Among the stranded include the Rung community of Dharchula, who live on the banks of Kali river in India and Nepal, and many villagers from Vyas Chaudas and Darma valleys who went to Nepal before the lockdown, the group has claimed. Speaking TOI, block development committee (BDC) member of Dharchula, Mehandra Budiyal said, “More than 40 from Dharchula tehsil are stranded in Nepal. I spoke to them on the phone a few days back, they want to return home. Krishana Garvyal, a BJP worker, said, “The Indian citizens stranded in Nepal are facing ration and medical problems, so we requested to the administration to make arrangements for their return.” Gram Pradhan of Nabi village, Sanam Nabiyal, said some people from the village are also stuck. “They went to went to lower the valleys of Nepal in winter. They normally return by mid-April, but due to lockdown they are stuck there,” Nabiyal said. Reacting to the matter, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, “Since it is a matter involving both the nations, India and Nepal, the decision will be taken according to the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. We have sent a letter to the state government and the Centre, seeking advice.” Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate AK Shukla said they have requested to the Nepali authorities to take care of the stranded Indian citizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dharchula-residents-request-district-administration-to-allow-indian-citizens-return-from-nepal/articleshow/75608330.cms||Prem Punetha
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Poaching accused held, leopard skin and blackbuck horn seized||YAVATMAL: The forest officials here have arrested a poacher from Uttarwadhona town under Darwha forest range and seized skin of a full grown leopard and a blackbuck horn. According to DCF Bhanudas Pingle, the accused Gajanan Kunkar was arrested on Monday and he has confessed to the crime. He has been booked relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Further investigation is being carried out by RFO of Ner, Vinod Kohale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poaching-accused-held-leopard-skin-blackbuck-horn-seized/articleshow/75612127.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Panaji mkt opens after 6 weeks, shoppers queue up from 8am||Panaji: The Panaji municipal market complex opened its gates for buyers on Thursday, after a hiatus of six weeks. The complex opened its gates at 7am for shopkeepers to ready their respective stations and closed by 6pm for the public. Sources said that shoppers started lining up as early as 8am onwards. To avoid potential crowding, only 50 people were allowed in at a time. “We are ensuring that buyers maintain distance among themselves and also that there is limited interaction,” a vendor said. Meanwhile, apart from restarting their businesses, the shopkeepers voiced one other concern, that of retaining the cleanliness level of the freshly sanitized buildings. In the runup to the reopening, the migrant force employed by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had been working very hard since the past few days to wash off paan stains, clean the toilets and disinfect the entire building. Now, the tenants of the market complex have taken it upon themselves to ensure that hygiene is maintained. They have already instructed the pay toilet contractors to keep hand wash at basins and asked vendors to take individual responsibility to keep the toilet clean. There are four pay-toilets within the market complex that are managed by contractors. “Vendors will have to lead by example. We have warned them and their workers that they will not be allowed to enter the toilets with cigarettes, paan or ghutka,” Panaji Municipal Market Tenants’ Association, president, Rajendra Damaskar said. “Even the staff managing the toilets have asked to ensure that they do not permit buyers inside the toilets with tobacco products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-opens-after-6-weeks-shoppers-queue-up-from-8am/articleshow/75612134.cms||Nida Sayed
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Hailstorm, rain in Garwhal region hit apple growers hard||DEHRADUN: The ‘untimely’ hailstorm and rain that lashed several parts of Garhwal in the last two days have devastated the apple growers in the region, pushing them at the brink of loss worth crores of rupees. Among the areas that are worse hit include Naugaon, Mori, Bhattia and Purola —which is considered to be the ‘fruit bowl’ of the Uttarakhand. A Naugaon-based farmer, Vijendera Rawat, said, “I have 400 trees orchid. Due to hailstorm and rain, more than 50% of the apple crop has been destroyed. If this (referring to rains and hailstorm) continues, then entire fruit belt of the region would suffer huge losses this season.” For fruit growers, April and May are very important. “During this time, the trees generate flowers which helps to yield the fruit. However, rains and bouts of hailstorm, that has been happening from Sunday, have caused the flowers to drop off from the trees and those remained have started developing spots,” said Rawat. Another apple grower, Jagmohan Chand, said, “Unlike the neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, apple farmers here do not have anti-hailstorm guns to handle the situation. The hailstorms this year have wreaked havoc on the crops. The total produce is likely to drop by at least 50%.” On an average, an apple grower sells a box of 20 kg at the price between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 depending on the quality. “This year, a big chunk of the fruit has gone wasted. So, it all depends on the quality of fruit that remains on trees till July and August. And the price of apple box is likely to reduce by 50%,” said Chand, who owns an apple orchid in Naugaon. Meanwhile, the state agriculture secretary, Meenakshi R Sundram, said the affected growers would be provided relief. “Apple crop is covered under the insurance scheme. The apple growers will get relief as per the SDRF norms.” However, growers say that the insurance only covers apple orchards and not other fruit crops like plum and apricot. “The total damages would run into crores of rupees for the entire region here, which has over 3,000 farmers growing apple. The insurance covers only the apple orchards, not other crops like plum, pear, apricot and peaches,” said Dalbir Negi, an apple grower in Mori village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hailstorm-rain-in-garwhal-region-hit-apple-growers-hard/articleshow/75608379.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 8, 2020||Goa||Hospicio OPDs likely at new district hospital from Monday||Margao: The Out Patient Departments (ODP) of the Hospicio hospital, Margao will soon be shifted to the new South Goa district hospital which is yet to be inaugurated, as a “temporary measure” to tide over the space crisis in the old hospital. Dr Ira Almeida, deputy director, health services, and the medical superintendent of the Hospicio, told TOI that the OPDs at the new district hospital are likely to be made operational by Monday. “Shifting of the OPDs to the new hospital has been planned as a purely temporary measure to ensure that proper social distancing is maintained in the OPDs. This is being done in the interest of the safety of the patients and the health workers too,” Almeida said. Pointing out that patients visiting the OPDs in the Hospicio have to queue up outside the hospital which usually extends onto the roads owing to paucity of space, Almeida said that shifting of the OPDs to the new hospital will save the patients the hardships. “There is likelihood of a heat wave in Goa next week, and the rains are also approaching. Keeping all this is mind, it has been decided to shift the OPDs to the new hospital,” she said. However, all other departments of the Hospicio, including the casualty, as well as general admissions will remain functional as usual in the old hospital. Three completed floors of the much-delayed South Goa district hospital were recently handed over to the government by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC). The 500-bedded hospital has missed several deadlines for its completion. During his last visit to the hospital in August 2019, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said they were aiming to inaugurate the hospital by November 2019, but the target was widely missed. The hospital will have a nine-bedded cardiac care unit which will function under the supervision of the Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim, Sawant had then said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hospicio-opds-likely-at-new-district-hospital-from-monday/articleshow/75612190.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Industrial tragedy a constant in past one decade||VISAKHAPATNAM: The City of Destiny may fast be turning into a city of industrial accidents. Over the past eight decades, Vizag city has grown into a major industrial hub on the east coast, with both public and private sector companies setting up base here. While it has become an industrial nerve centre, helped by its proximity to a mining zone and railway-port connectivity, growth has come at a cost in the form of an increasing number of and growing scale of industrial accidents in the city. Over the last decade, the city has witnessed a number of major and minor industrial accidents resulting in more than 54 deaths and several injured, as well as growing concerns about the environment. With the recent industrial accident at LG Polymers so far claiming 11 lives, activists and citizens have questioned the manner in which industrial growth of the city is being propelled. Former bureaucrat and activist EAS Sarma said, “Relaxing environmental clearance procedures and encouraging polluting industries in the name of easing of business is responsible for the mess.” On the need for stringent measures to ensure that industries do not flout norms, Sarma added, “IPC proceedings and heavy civil penalties are called for.” Director of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE)-Visakhapatnam Dr Prasad Veerapaneni called for stringent monitoring measures, constant drills and training and a more professional attitude from human resources. Dr Veerappaneni said, “It is time for India to have a permanent accident monitoring unit concerning ‘red category’industries instead of setting up committees to submit reports after accidents have taken place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/industrial-tragedy-a-constant-in-past-1-decade/articleshow/75611320.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 8, 2020||Shimla||Ensure home quarantine: Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed senior officers of state government to ensure that the people entering Himachal Pradesh from other states must strictly follow quarantine norms, while presiding over a meeting to review situation in the state in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. He said that all those returning from other parts of the country must be examined, after which it should be decided if he/she needs to be kept in home quarantine or institutional quarantine. Thakur said complete data of persons who have arrived in Himachal Pradesh from other states should be compiled and those coming from the red zone must be kept in the quarantine centre. He said, institutional quarantine centres must be identified in the state and care must be taken. He said that these centres should be in secluded place away from residential and busy areas. He said that it must be ensured that person jumping home quarantine should be immediately shifted to institutional quarantine. He said that the passes for the people of the state, keen on coming back to the state from other parts of country must be issued in a staggered manner to avoid unnecessary crowding at the entry points of the state. He said that steps must also be taken to facilitate people of other states, particularly students and labourers stranded in the state, to go to their respective destinations. He said that as per the guidelines of Union ministry of home affairs, elaborate arrangements have been made to bring back people of Himachal Pradesh stranded in other states. He said that state government had already appointed adequate number of supporting officers to the nodal authority to coordinate movement of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ensure-home-quarantine-himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur/articleshow/75613657.cms||Anand Bodh
May 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Work restarts on Kathputli project, with Covid riders||NEW DELHI: The construction work of DDA’s much-delayed Kathputli Colony in situ slum redevelopment project has restarted amid the lockdown with necessary safety measures. Arranging manpower for the construction work, however, is proving to be a challenge. “We had over 500 workers before the ban on construction to check pollution. After that, it was Holi and crop cutting season followed by Covid-19 lockdown,” said Navin M Raheja, CMD of Raheja Developers Limited which is carrying out the redevelopment project. “During the lockdown, we are left with less than 250 workers on the site who have been provided accommodation, food, sanitation and medical care throughout,” he added. Raheja said that work has started on full-scale and all protocols of safety and distancing are being followed. “We are looking at absorbing more manpower from within the city and have requested for transfer of skilled workers languishing in shelter camps,” he told TOI. The structure and finishing work for the project has started simultaneously and if we are able to retain the current strength of workers, possession to the first batch may be offered within 120 working days subject to availability of external infrastructure, Raheja claimed. “The construction site is regularly sanitised and all packaged material, pipes and fittings will be disinfected,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-restarts-on-kathputli-project-with-covid-riders/articleshow/75613330.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 8, 2020||Delhi||Fought pain tooth and nail? You can expect some relief soon||NEW DELHI: Those in need of emergency care for dental health issues are among the worst sufferers during the Covid-19 crisis. With clinics shut over the fear of spread of the infection, most patients are forced to take heavy painkillers that not only leave them vulnerable to serious side-effects but it also raise the risk of serious complications if the problem remains unattended for too long. Sumedha Sharma, a resident of Anand Vihar, said it’s been around a month since her dental implant came out. “All dental clinics near me are closed. My regular dentist prescribed me painkillers and antibiotics, but it will be 40 days before I can get it checked out,” she said. Senior citizens with dental problems are suffering even more, as they are more vulnerable to infection by the virus. “My father has had a toothache for three weeks. Even if dental clinics open, I don’t know how to take the risk of taking him to one,” said Nikhil Kumar, a resident of Malviya Nagar. Dr Pradeep Yadav, who runs a private clinic, said dental procedures involve inspecting the mouth for detailed examination and, if needed, conducting procedure such as root canal for toothache, caries or puss formation. “All these procedures generate aerosol, which can spread Covid-19. That’s why we are currently not conducting any such procedures, except in emergency cases,” he said. Dr Munish Bhagirath, director of Paramount Dental Centre said he is offering consultation to patients over the phone mostly. “But there are emergency cases that have to be attended to in the clinic. We wear protective gear and take precautions such as disinfecting touch surfaces before conducting the procedure,” he said, adding that it may take some time for normal operations to start. Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences (MAIDS), one of India’s premier dental hospitals, has devised a detailed protocol for dental treatment. “We have triaging facility outside the hospital. Only emergency cases are being attended to. And the specialists have to wear full protective gear while working,” said a senior doctor, who is also a member of the Dental Council of India (DCI). DCI has issued fresh guidelines and recommendations on how to re-start dental services. Lieutenant colonel Vimal Arora, chief clinical officer at Clove Dental, said they plan to re-start services partially in NCR. “In my view, patients should pre-book appointments and discuss their problems with the dentist. They should also ascertain that the dentists wear PPEs while operating and sterilise the clinic regularly,” he said. Non-urgent dental treatment includes check-ups, preventive treatments such as scaling and appointments for braces, which can be postponed. But if there is pain, swelling, or injury, the patient may require urgent attention as this can lead to complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fought-pain-tooth-and-nail-you-can-expect-some-relief-soon/articleshow/75613322.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Two held for killing nilgai in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: A father-son duo were arrested by the forest department of Chhota Udepur district on Wednesday for killing a nilgai on April 21. The gun used for hunting was also recovered from the accused —Kamsing Rathwa and his son Ishwar Rathwa. On April 21, the duo along with eight other persons had shot at a nilgai at a farm in Bhumaswada village of Kawant taluka in Chhota Udepur district. After firing two, the accused had left from there as they had planned to visit the spot again late in the night to collect the carcass. However, on the same evening, a team of forest department found the injured nilgai and brought it to Chhota Udepur for treatment. The animal succumbed to injuries during treatment the next day. “We had suspicion that the hunters were from the same village or from neighbouring villages. As the village borders Madhya Pradesh, we contacted the forest department there and formed a joint team to nab the hunters,” said deputy conservator of forests Nilesh Pandya. He added that around 100 people were questioned for over 10 days to zero in on the accused. Based on the information, the team nabbed the father-son duo along with their gun. “They have admitted to the crime and also revealed names of eight of their accomplices whom we are trying to track down,” Pandya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-killing-nilgai-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/75609709.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Visakhapatnam: Man unites child with parents amid gas leak||VISAKHAPATNAM: While state authorities were busy dealing with the fall out of the gas leak incident, a parallel incident was unfolding in another part of the city.  A vegetable vendor helped unite a lost child and her parents in a matter of five hours. At around 5am on Thursday, vegetable vendor Kalla Suresh found five-year-old Sucharita on the road leading to LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram. Thinking on his feet, Suresh quickly took the girl, later identified as Sucharita, to the nearby SRS Hospital at Gopalapatnam to check her health condition. He realised that the child might have got separated from her parents in the confusion of the evacuation. When doctors confirmed that she was healthy, Suresh took her home at Chintala Agraharam, Gavarapalem Colony, 5kms away from the incident spot. Suresh then used social media to look for her parents. He posted her picture and description. Soon after calls started to flood in. “I got so many phone calls within two hours. But finally it paid off. I got through to her parents and handed her over to them,” Suresh told TOI. The parents, Raju and Neelima are residents of Srinagar Colony, Gajuwaka. The girl was at her grandmother’s house at Venkatapuram. On Thursday morning, the girl along with her mother and uncle had gone outside. She went missing during the confusion and panic over the gas leak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-unites-child-with-parents-amid-gas-leak/articleshow/75611348.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Tricksters using social media to lure citizens||Nagpur: Tricksters are coming up with new tactics to dupe citizens. Sources said tricksters have become active on social media during lockdown. In the latest trend, tricksters made a fake Facebook page of an eatery and offered two free thalis on purchasing one. According to a press note issued by city cyber cell, the tricksters also gave a mobile number. When any citizen contacted on the number, the accused collected information about the caller and also asked them to share OTP. Two such cases have been reported in the city. In the first case, a citizen was duped of Rs12,000 while in another case cyber cell sleuths managed to return money to the complaint. Cyber cell of city police have urged citizens not to share any personal or bank details with anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tricksters-using-social-media-to-lure-citizens/articleshow/75613338.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Ex-MLA’s Facebook math class reaches lakhs||CHIKKAMAGALUR: Before taking the plunge into the world of politics, former Kadur MLA and senior JD(S) member YSV Datta was a teacher, and the lockdown has offered him a golden opportunity to return to his former profession. Although Datta holds classes for SSLC students to help them revise in time for their exams in his hometown, Kadur, every year, the former legislator is reaching out to children across the state this time around. Datta, using the Facebook Live app, is helping students of both English and Kannada medium students hone their skills in mathematics. The first of his FB Live classes was streamed on Tuesday, and nearly 5.3 lakh students tuned in to listen to the leader-teacher, in addition to being shared by 5,200. After his second session received an encouraging response again – more than 2.2 lakh students attended the virtual classroom – Datta told TOI that he was delighted with the response from the children. “I have covered eight lessons so far. I am taking lessons in both English and Kannada to ensure that all of them benefit,” he said. The former MLA said that it was primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar who inspired him to take to teaching students on a virtual platform. “A few days ago, I met Suresh Kumar accidentally on the road, and we just sat together by the side of the road, and spoke at length. He voiced his concerns about SSLC students’ preparations being affected owing to the lockdown and how he wanted to keep them reading. That was when I decided to use technology to help students. Teaching is something I derive a lot of satisfaction out of,” said Datta, who added that several students posed questions online during the class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/former-mla-turns-teacher-reaches-lakhs-of-students-on-fb-live/articleshow/75611356.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 2,000 Covid cases in 7 days, no new red zones||NEW DELHI: Though the number of Covid-positive cases has risen sharply, no new containment zones were created in the city since April 30. In the past seven days, over 2,000 cases have been reported. While there were 3,515 cases till April 30, the numbers rose to 5,532 by May 6. Compared with Mumbai, Delhi has a negligible number of containment zones with nearly half as many cases. The capital currently has 86 containment zones, while Mumbai has 2,473 red areas with 10,527 positive cases. On April 14, when Delhi had 1,500 positive cases, there were 55 containment zones. Their numbers rose to 100 when over 3,300 positive cases were reported on April 28. The first containment zone was created in Dilshad Garden and Seemapuri on March 26. The authorities converted localities into containment zones when three or more Covid-positive cases were reported from the area. Some apartments were made into containment zones after a single positive case was detected. The areas were sealed and barricades were placed at the entry and exit points. Policemen were deployed to ensure no one entered or exited the sealed area. An extensive sanitisation and screening exercise was mounted to ensure that coronavirus didn’t spread. While the government maintains area-wise information of the positive cases, it is not disclosed even to the media. Most of the 2,000 positive cases that have been reported since April 30 have not come from the existing containment zones. Delhi government’s “Operation Shield” has been quite successful. Under it, extensive screening, testing, sanitisation and delivery of essentials has been done in the containment zones. A few red zones witnessed a spurt in cases, but the infection didn’t spread outside the sealed area. “The creation of containment zones made people in neighbouring areas careful. It prompted them to follow social distancing out of fear. It also exerted a positive pressure on the district administration to intensify the fight against coronavirus,” said a senior IAS officer. Countering apprehensions that no new containment zones were created despite over 2,000 cases, a government source denied any adverse pressure by the government on the authorities. All 11 districts are in the red and creation of more containment zones would keep them that way. No economic activity is allowed within a containment zone. A senior official said the strategy to fight novel coronavirus was evolving and the focus had shifted to multiple aspects, like home isolation. “The 700-odd homes where people were under home isolation couldn’t be made into containment zones,” he added. Delhi Medical Council member Dr Harish Gupta said that surveillance is extremely important. “Delhi has made significant achievements in the fight against coronavirus and the creation of containment zones has been very effective. Such zones should be increased, if required,” Dr Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2k-cases-in-7-days-no-new-red-zones/articleshow/75613343.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Youth who returned from Chhattisgarh dies in Pilibhit, Covid-19 suspected||PILIBHIT: A 24-year-old youth, who had returned to his native place in Neuria town with four colleagues during the lockdown from Chhattisgarh, where he worked as a cycle mechanic, died on Thursday evening, minutes after he was admitted to Neuria community health center (CHC). His family said the youth was suffering from high fever with respiratory congestion since Thursday morning. They also alleged that Dr Dinesh, who was on duty at the CHC, declined to attend to him from fear of transmission of Covid-19. The youth died 15 minutes after they reached the CHC, the family claimed. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Seema Agarwal, said the health department had been informed that the youth’s family already reported that he had been vomiting, following which, he had been shifted to the CHC on a government ambulance. She said the administration will send his body for autopsy to identify the cause of death. His family demanded that the youth be tested for Covid-19, which, the CMO has clarified, is not possible during autopsy. On being asked if the youth had been quarantined after his return, additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi said he and his four colleagues had been duly screened for novel coronavirus at the time, when none of them had shown any symptoms, as a result of which they had been recommended home quarantine. But apprehensive of the youth having died of Covid-19, the department has now decided to send samples of nasal and throat swabs of all his four colleagues for testing, said Chaturvedi. Neuria police station SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said the dead body has been sent to the mortuary of the district government hospital, Pilibhit, where his autopsy wil be conducted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-who-returned-from-chhattisgarh-dies-in-pilibhit-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75608482.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Gangotri highway blocked due to landslide||UTTARKASHI: A massive landslide triggered due to incessant rain for the past few days blocked the Gangotri national highway near Sunagar region of Bhatwari block in Uttarkashi district on Thursday morning. As a result, traffic movement on both sides of the highway remained interrupted throughout the day, leaving nearly three dozen people stranded. After getting information, teams of Border Road Organization (BRO) and disaster management department were deployed at the site to evacuate the stranded people. However, despite efforts by the BRO workers, the highway remained blocked till late evening. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “The BRO workers are facing some difficulties due to rocks falling from the hill top in regular intervals. We will most probably restore the traffic movement in the highway till Thursday late night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangotri-highway-blocked-due-to-landslide/articleshow/75608481.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APPCB under radar for not holding public hearing||HYDERABAD: What has gone wrong in the LG Polymers plant that led to styrene leak early in the morning? While the LG Polymers engineers are supposed to check the refrigeration of styrene storage tank and inspector of factories of the industries department is supposed to look into safety aspects at the unit, the role of AP Pollution Control Board has come under the scanner now. Charging the APPCB with giving consent for operation and expansion of the red category plant despite its location in a thickly populated residential locality, environmentalists alleged that PCB did not even conduct a public hearing before granting approvals for the South Korean company to expand the plant. Former IAS officer EAS Sarma and environmentalist Purushottam Reddy alleged that the PCB gave the nod in 2018 for expansion of the unit, which handles hazardous gases and hydrocarbons like styrene. Interestingly, the company while filing its environmental clearance application (a copy of which is available with TOI) tried to push the worries over safety aspects under the carpet. To a question “if any vulnerable groups of people could be affected by the plant,” the company answered, “No sensitive receptors are present in the immediate vicinity of the site. The project shall not have any significant impact on vulnerable groups of people.” Venkatapuram habitation is very close to the LG plant and thousands of people reside in the area. When contacted, a PCB official said the MoEF sends them an order to conduct a public hearing for ‘A’ (red) category industries if they propose to set up or expand their units. “For expansion purposes, specific industries are exempted,” he said. A senior PCB official, however, tried to lay the blame on the storage tank staff. “Their negligence is clear. The role of inspector of factories will also be looked into by the enquiry committee,” he said. Joint chief environmental engineer (APPCB) T Rajendra Reddy told TOI that LG Polymers has consent for operation of the plant. “It has got all the requisite permissions during its expansion. We have not noticed any violations by the company. For that matter, no action has been initiated so far against LG Polymers,” he asserted. Meanwhile, DGP Gautam Sawang said 10,000 people who have been evacuated after the styrene leakage will not be brought back till they get a clearance from the authorities on the quality of air in the area. “The factory has been functioning in the area for a long time and residential colonies came up much later. There should have been a mechanism to look at safety and refrigeration aspects of the storage tank even during the lockdown,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/appcb-under-radar-for-not-holding-public-hearing/articleshow/75612870.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Associations oppose I-T dept’s move to revert 150 staffers||Nagpur: Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to establishments not to retrench employees or deduct their salary, the Income Tax Department’s office in the city has allegedly reversed promotions of as many as 150 employees belonging to backward categories. According to aggrieved employees, the action was carried out on April 22 when the lockdown was on citing a judgment of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Mumbai bench, of November 30, 2018. Accordingly, the reservation in promotions were denied to staffers. Protesting the move, the All India Income Tax SC/ST Employees’ Welfare Association’s city unit has written to the PM requesting him to reverse the order of demotion. “The order was implemented by the I-T chief commissioner without following guidelines of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). It was done intentionally. Since the both commissioner and central government were the respondents, it was their prime duty to save the employees from demotion,” secretary Kiran Jadhav told TOI. Dr Ambedkar Employees Association has also written to the PM stating that the I-T Department should have challenged the order in high court. “The I-T Department conducted a review meeting on March 18 and 19 and issued reversion order without providing any notice to the SC/ST employees. It is in gross violation of principle of natural justice and against the government’s policy on reservation,” president Sanjay Thul said. He demanded immediate action against those who failed to protect the rights of backward category employees. “All these staffers are working with the department since over five years and their salaries are deducted. The inspector is reverted to tax assistant after demotion and so on,” Thul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/associations-oppose-i-t-depts-move-to-revert-150-staffers/articleshow/75613355.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi RWAs write to state govt, seek white paper on Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Residents’ Welfare Associations, which have been quite active in supporting the government in the fight against novel coronavirus, have expressed displeasure over the letter sent by deputy CM Manish Sisodia to chief secretary Vijay Dev mentioning that RWAs were “making their own rules to restrict entry of self-employed, which is unacceptable”. Around 70 RWAs, activists and environmentalists under the banner of “Save Our City” campaign on Thursday tweeted a joint letter demanding a response from both the Centre and Delhi government regarding their preparedness in dealing with the pandemic. They also sought a white paper mentioning the exact number and location of Covid-19 patients and from where they had originated. The RWAs also asked for a tour along with the media of any of the 10 quarantine centres and five Covid-designated hospitals to ascertain the status of treatment facilities and how patients were being kept. They also raised questions about the patient handling capacity of the government and its testing ability. The associations claimed they were not consulted in the past 45 days, yet they made efforts to restrict movement of outsiders, raised funds to supply rations to stranded migrants, distributed food packets, took care of senior citizens, among other measures. “Delhi government’s letter to restrain RWAs is disappointing,” said Pankaj Aggarwal of Safdarjung RWAs. “The closing of malls and shopping complex will have no impact on containing the infection as 60% of mixed land use shops and offices are on every road, colony, village and unauthorised colony,” said Rajeev Kakria, convener, Save Our City campaign. A letter was also sent by RWAs from 23 localities to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia seeking clarity on the letter to the chief secretary. On Wednesday, Sisodia had written to Dev to direct all district magistrates and DCPs to ensure commencement of economic activities allowed by the Centre without any hindrance. The letter by Sisodia stated, “The government has received complaints about RWAs prescribing their own rules regarding entry of self-employed people like electricians, plumbers, and domestic workers. These instances are unacceptable.” Expressing disappointment, Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjivan Vihar RWA in south Delhi, said, “The letter by Delhi government seems to indicate that they clearly do not wish RWAs to undertake any measures. We had earlier written to the government requesting clarity on all grey areas.” A Delhi government official, however, said, “The guidelines were issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. We are just ensuring their implementation without hindrance.” The letter by the 23 RWAs stated, “The residents’ bodies have laid down certain procedures to regulate the entry of individuals in colonies to avoid unwanted entries. This by default applies to electricians, plumbers, domestic workers and office employees to contain the spread of the virus. We now fail to understand the government’s stand. Either they should allow us to adopt procedures to protect our residents or clarify the dos and don’ts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-write-to-govt-seek-white-paper-on-covid/articleshow/75613356.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 8, 2020||Delhi||Double impact: Delhi-Meerut RRTS to offer comfort, speed||NEW DELHI: The high-speed Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, on which a distance of 82km will be covered in an hour, will have aerodynamic, state-of-the-art trains offering business-class luxury to commuters, apart from a reserved coach for women. National Capital Regional Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is executing the project, has finalised the procurement of rolling stock. As part of the “Make in India” initiative, the trains will be manufactured by Bombardier Transportation India Private Ltd in Savli, Gujarat. A total of 30 train sets of six coaches each will be manufactured for the regional transit services and 10 sets of three coaches each for the local Meerut transit services. The high-speed aerodynamic trains with a design speed of 180 kmph will be self-propelled on electric traction. ‘The delivery of the rolling stock will start in 2022,” NCRTC said. The RRTS train would be designed keeping in mind the high-acceleration and deceleration it would need to undergo, given the maximum operational speed of 160 kmph and stations at every 5-10km. The “aircraft-like” trains will have automatic plug-in doors, which will help reduce air-friction and noise. “Keeping commuter convenience in mind, the 3.2m-wide trains will have 2x2 transverse seating arrangement like Shatabdi Express, besides a comfortable standing space,” NCRTC claimed. There will be one business class and a reserved coach for women in each train. Keeping in mind the intercity travelling needs, there will also be luggage racks. While the general coaches will have more standing space, the business class ones will offer a more luxurious ride for a higher fee. The charges are yet to be decided. “There are also plans of providing free Wi-Fi in these coaches,” a source said. A separate enclosure or lounge with proper seating and other facilities have been planned on the platform. The passengers will get a separate travel card for entry into the segregated lounge and the coaches, the source added. Entry into a business class coach will be facilitated by dual AFC gates — one for entry into the paid area of the station, while the second will be installed at the platform level for entry into the coach. Passengers will be able to decide their class of travel at any time with the help of these gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/double-impact-rrts-to-offer-comfort-speed/articleshow/75613351.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||1,400 migrant labourers arrive in Kheri from Maharashtra||BAREILLY: As many as 1,450 migrant labourers who were stranded in various parts of Maharashtra, finally reached home in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. A special train ferrying them from Mumbai arrived at Sitapur railway station earlier In the day and then, 21 buses brought them to Lakhimpur Kheri district in the afternoon. Medical screening of all the migrant labourers would be done at tehsil headquarters. Those having symptoms of Covid-19 would be sent to quarantine centres, where their samples would be taken for Covid-19 tests, officials said. Most of the migrants work at brick kilns in Maharashtra. One of them, Indra Lal, told TOI, “I have returned with my parents and wife. We had purchased had purchased a ticket each for Rs 620 for the journey.” Many migrants said their tickets were provided by their respective employers and they did not pay anything for their journey. Sunandu Sudhakaran, SDM of Dhaurahra, said, “All the asymptomatic migrants from rural areas will be sent back home, where they need to remain in quarantine for 21 days. Also each migrant family will be provided a ration kit containing food items worth Rs 1,200. In rural areas, surveillance team consisting of ASHA workers and lekhpals with the support of gram pradhans will monitor them every day and submit a report at the tehsil office A poster will be pasted outside the house of the migrants as well." Chief medical officer, Dr Manoj Agarwal, said, “Since the number of positive cases in Maharashtra is quite high, we are intensely screening everyone and ensuring that all the symptomatic migrants are identified and kept in quarantine. We have deployed a team of six doctors in each tehsil. The total number of suspected cases is expected to be identified by Thursday night. We have ordered that the entire family be placed under quarantine if any member is found to be symptomatic." Arun Kumar, SDM, Sadar, who is looking after the migrants in urban area, told TOI, “We have lodged the migrant workers at schools and marriage halls. The health department is intensely screening all of them. We have arranged for their food and other necessary items. Also, nearly 400 more migrants from other states have returned to Kheri on Thursday and we are also looking after them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1-4k-migrant-labourers-arrive-in-kheri-from-maharashtra/articleshow/75608505.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Cracker makers expect 40% dip in production||MADURAI: With the lockdown leaving fireworks units in Virudhunagar district closed for the past 42 days, manufacturers expect the production to come down by as much as 40% for this year’s Deepavali. The hub of fireworks industry in the country, the district has over 900 units many of which commenced functioning on Wednesday following the guidelines imposed by the district administration. Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (Tanfama) president P Ganesan told TOI that nearly 70% of the units in the district have started functioning. The units were strictly following standard operating procedures such as engaging 50% employees, maintaining social distancing and obtaining vehicle passes. Since the officials are swiftly providing vehicle passes for transportation of employees, functioning of the cracker units has been smooth during the past two days. “The fireworks industry in the district faced a loss of nearly Rs 300 crore following the closure of the cracker units for 42 days. Though the units commenced production, we are only permitted to engage half the employees. These factors would have an impact on the industry, thereby cutting the production by 40 % this year,” explained Ganesan. Normal production can be expected after the lockdown is lifted across the country, he added. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that permission is granted for functioning of industries when they apply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cracker-makers-expect-40-dip-in-production/articleshow/75612878.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Residents call for tests in retail veggie mkts||Trichy: After five people in the temporary wholesale vegetable market at G corner ground were suspected to have contracted Covid-19, demands to conduct testing on labourers, truck drivers and vegetable vendors at the retail vegetable markets here have grown shriller. However, officials maintained that the results of samples collected from the G corner market are yet to be finalised and disclosed. After Koyambedu became a Covid-19 hotspot, Trichy corporation had collected 180 samples from people in the temporary wholesale market on May 4. Official sources said that five people residing in the city were suspected to have been infected. They were traced and moved to MGMGH on Wednesday night, a corporation official said. However, as on Thursday night, authorities maintained that the results of the samples collected needed further verification. “We are yet to confirm the test results of all the swabs collected from G corner market,” a senior corporation official said. Officials said that five people who tested positive from Trichy on Thursday were not from G corner market but from rural Trichy. But people opined that since Covid-19 cases are suspected in G corner, the wholesale market should be made safer. They asked the local body to test the retail vegetable vendors who purchase vegetables from G corner market. “It is high time Trichy corporation collected samples at the eight retail markets as people purchase vegetables directly from the markets. Vegetable vendors using pushcarts should also be screened,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur said. With the Koyambedu market temporarily closed, vegetable-laden trucks were suspected to have been rerouted to Trichy’s G corner in the past few days. Considering its vulnerability, residents pitched for the decentralisation of G corner market’s operation to avoid overcrowding. Wholesale vegetable sales are sought to be decentralised as English vegetables, country vegetables, tomato and coconut sales separately in four different places. “We will decide about the market’s functioning based on the test results of 180 samples collected from G corner,” a corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-call-for-tests-in-retail-veggie-mkts/articleshow/75611362.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Fake pass: Advance bail plea rejected||Madurai: Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of a man who had prepared fake vehicle passes to help transport people from Chennai to Ramanathapuram illegally by violating the lockdown norms. The Parthibanur police had booked Sankar,50, a resident of Keelakkarai, and others for preparing the fake passes under various sections. Shankar, who apprehended arrest filed an e-anticipatory bail petition which was heard recently. The petitioner’s counsel said that Shankar had made arrangements for travel for the other accused and was not involved in the offence. Stating that three co-accused in the case were already granted anticipatory bail, the counsel also sought anticipatory bail to Shankar by considering the extremely urgent circumstances. The public prosecutor submitted that when the revenue officials were involved in vehicle inspection at the border check-post at Parthibanur on April 22, six people were travelling in the vehicle with passes issued by the Ramanathapuram district collector. When the officials verified the genuineness of the passes, they found that they were forged and prepared by the petitioner. He submitted that another similar case was registered against Shankar and the investigation is in a preliminary stage. Hence, he objected the grant of anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-pass-advance-bail-plea-rejected/articleshow/75612872.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paramilitary units deployed in containment zones||Ahmedabad: The seven companies of paramilitary forces sent to Gujarat were deployed in the worst Covid-19 affected containment areas of Ahmedabad and Surat, to augment security measures. These companies have mainly been deployed in containment areas of walled city and some ‘red zone’ areas. Moreover police bandobust and patrolling in containment areas has also been beefed up, said DGP Shivanand Jha. Jha said that in order to stop ‘super spreaders’ entering and leaving these areas, every vehicle is being checked and shops other than those selling milk and medicine have been directed to shut down. “This decision was taken to comings and goings of people from such areas to keep the virus from spreading to other areas. This move is in the people’s interest and I appeal to citizens to support the administration in enforcing the strict lockdown in the city” added DGP Jha. Jha added that to reduce people’s movements, some city roads have been barricaded and only a few have been left open. “From 7pm to 7am, all city roads will be blocked to stop the movements of people. Where needed, police points will also be set up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paramilitary-units-deployed-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75611366.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana set to audit 36 units using industrial gases||HYDERABAD: Authorities in Telangana have identified 36 units dealing with industrial gases and will carry out an audit of these industries considering the gas leak at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. “There are 36 units that deal with industrial gases. These are mostly mid-scale industrial units with an investment of around Rs 50 crore,” said industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan. He said authorities will also check whether any unit was using styrene, adding that precautions were being taken to avert a Vizag-like mishap. “The audit of these units will be completed in three days. The audit will be carried out by industries department and factories department,” Ranjan said, adding that authorities will check whether these units, dotted in and around Hyderabad, are following the guidelines prescribed during the establishment of the units. Sources in the industries and environment ministries said that the process of granting approval for an industry in the state was a multi-pronged one, including several departments as well the Telangana State Pollution Control Board which gives the final consent for operation. Disaster response force personnel put on alertProcess adherence and storage are to be monitored by the PCB,” said Ranjan, adding some compliances are overseen by the factories department also. The city civic apparatus is being prepared for any untoward incidents, said officials. Viswajit Kampati, directorate, enforcement vigilance & disaster management in GHMC, said a team of 30 disaster response force personnel are on alert. Kampati said as per disaster management protocol, DRF personnel first ensure their own safety for which chemical suits and breathing equipment are available. “They cordon off the affected area for which they are helped by other peripheral units including cops, before evacuating civilians to reduce casualties,” he added. A huge number of rescue personnel were deployed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-set-to-audit-36-units-using-industrial-gases/articleshow/75612890.cms||Uttara Varma
May 8, 2020||Indore||Indore’s 70% +ve cases are a result of family transmission||Indore: Indore administration has managed to stop Covid-19 infection from going to community spread stage but its prevalence as ‘family-transmission’ has been reported in around 70 per cent of cases, senior health officials said. “In first two days of random sampling and testing of people in different parts of Indore, no positive case was reported. On basis of results, we are getting confidence of stopping the disease from entering the level of community spread,” said CMHO Dr Pravin Jadia adding that the disease is however prevalent in the society as ‘family-transmission’. He said that there are basic reasons behind increasing spread of disease among members of same family from each other. “People should ensure that they follow the lockdown rules while basic precautions including washing hands frequently, using hand sanitizer, sanitizing objects that are touched by hands, wearing masks and immediately seeking medical assistance on developing any symptoms of cough, cold and fever,” Dr Jadia said. He added that around 70 per cent of positive cases reported so far in Indore are result of ‘family-transmission’ while the same could be checked by people by following the Do’s and Don’ts. According to local health department, they have so far collected around 11,000 samples of which about 1700 have come positive. In Indore, maximum cases have reported due to people avoiding basic precautions and not following rules of home isolation. According to local experts and senior officials of health department, people, especially those residing in slums, are required to be educated about the importance of lockdown to help check spread of the disease. “There are cases reported in Siddhipuram, Azad Nagar, Taatpatti Bakhal, Khajrana, Bambai Bazar and Ranipura, wherein, all members of a family have reported positive and had to be shifted to hospitals for treatment. The same could be checked through education and encouraging people to take precautions,” a senior health official, wishing anonymity, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indores-70-ve-cases-are-a-result-of-family-transmission/articleshow/75611371.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||In Tuticorin, public can buy masks from vending machines||TUTICORIN: The Tuticorin Corporation has installed two mask vending machines in the city to make masks available for the public at ease and at a nominal price. Masks have been made mandatory at many public places to prevent the spread of Covid-19. However, considering the demand-supply gap and high costs of masks, they are out of reach for many. The vending machines have been installed in front of the corporation main office and at Amma canteen in Rajaji Park. Corporation commissioner V P Jeyaseelan said, “We bought three machines from a Coimbatore-based manufacturer, who manufactures sanitary napkin vending machines. The mask vending machines operate in a similar manner. We conducted a trial run by installing one at the corporation office for a week and a few hundred masks have been successfully disbursed.” He said the corporation had purchased triple layer masks at Rs 6 per piece and was offering them at a subsidised price of Rs 5. “Public can insert a Rs 5 coin into the machine and get a mask. Each machine, priced at Rs 22,500, can hold 120 masks. There is no cap on the number of pieces per person. There is a system to replenish the machines,” he said. A self-help group has been entrusted with the task of packing each mask and loading it into the vending machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-tuticorin-public-can-buy-masks-from-vending-machines/articleshow/75612880.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||One more bar burgled, tally touches 9 in city||Nagpur: Deprived of regular supply booze because of the prolonged closure of bars and wine shops, miscreants have started targeting liquor shops in the city frequently. Ninth such incident has been reported since the lockdown was imposed wherein unidentified burglar broke into a bar in Dongargaon near Hingna and decamped with liquor worth Rs1.37 lakh between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. In the latest incident, bar run by Arvind Jaiswal, 48, was targeted by a burglar who sneaked into the staff room by breaking the lock and stole liquor and beer bottles worth Rs1.37 lakh. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after a staffer visited the bar and found the lock broken. Since March 18, all bars and wine shops have been closed following the lockdown over the outbreak of Covid-19. All these establishments were sealed off by state excise officials who had also taken a report of the stock at these shops. Earlier, country-made liquor shops in Tandapeth and Kamptee and bars in Jaripatka, Gaddigodam, Koradi, Mankapur, MIDC and Nandanvan were targeted by miscreants who had fled with cash and liquor worth lakhs. Earlier, cops had told wine shop and bar owners to keep extra security at their establishments. However, no CCTV was installed at Jaiswal’s bar. The spate of bar burglaries puts a question mark over the efficacy of police patrolling as the men in khaki are said to be on the streets 24 X 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-bar-burgled-tally-touches-9-in-city/articleshow/75613361.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Health care tax on petrol, diesel and liquor; post cremation rituals permitted at Haridwar||DEHRADUN: On the heels of other states, the Uttarakhand cabinet, too, on Thursday brought in a ‘special health care tax’ on liquor, petrol and diesel. The revised prices would be effective from May 8 and applicable for a year. The tax on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) would range between Rs 20 and Rs 200 per bottle whereas a tax of Rs 475 per bottle would be applicable on foreign liquor and a tax of Rs 20 per bottle would be levied on countrymade liquor. Similarly, the rate of petrol in Uttarakhand which was Rs 72.55 per litre earlier , has gone up to Rs 74.55 per litre after the cabinet okayed tax to be levied on fuel. Diesel prices, too, have gone up to Rs 64.17 litre from Rs 63.17 per litre. Commenting on the cabinet decision to ley the tax, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, "The special tax on liquor will generate an additional revenue of Rs 250 crore per year and increase in petrol and diesel prices will provide an additional revenue of Rs 120 crore. As of now, the special tax would be applicable for a period of a year." In another major decision, the cabinet also decided to permit people from other states to come to Haridwar for post-cremation rituals. However, only a driver and two members of a family or their relatives and friends have been allowed for the rituals. Many people come to Haridwar from across the country and even outside to perform post cremation rituals, especially to immerse the ashes in river Ganga. Kaushik said that taking this into account, a decision was taken to allow families to come to Haridwar for the rituals. He added that family members of the deceased will have to take permission from their respective state governments which will be checked at Uttarakhand border. He added that the cabinet gave permission to lease owners – who had permission for mining up to 50 hectares - to use machines for the process. Meanwhile, in a move to stop locals – who were working in other states and had returned to Uttarakhand after the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown – from going back after the situation improves, the cabinet also approved the ‘CM Swarozgar Yojana.’ "Under this project, we have created two sectors – construction and services. These are further sub-divided into three categories," Kaushik said, adding, "We will be providing grant to all these categories on the basis of their project report and the funds expected to be required." The maximum grant for construction sector would be Rs 25 lakh and for services sector, it would be Rs 10 lakh, he added. The minister further alleged that work is progressing speedily to bring back people stuck in other states. "We have set targets for the next three days. On May 7, we brought back 4,592 people from different states. On May 8, we plan to bring back 2,281 and on May 9 we intend to bring 1,868 people," Kaushik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-care-tax-on-petrol-diesel-and-liquor-postcremation-rituals-permitted-at-haridwar/articleshow/75608519.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao urges Europe to invest in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana industries minister KT Rama Rao has asked European diplomats and representatives of European Business Group (EBG) to consider investment opportunities in pharma and life sciences, IT, defence and aerospace, and textile sectors in the state. Assuring them of all possible assistance from the state, KTR appealed to the diplomats during a video conference on Thursday to support the government in attracting investments. “I will be interacting with the heads of industries from various countries soon,” he said. KTR discussed the impact of Covid-19 on the industry and investment opportunities that might emerge in the post Covid-19 world. He also presented an overview of the progressive industrial environment prevailing in the state. “Telangana has established international standards in ease of doing business by introducing and effectively implementing industrial policies such as TS-iPass. In the past five years it has given permissions to more than 13, 0000 companies to set up their units in the state,” KTR said. The minister said the state has created an innovation ecosystem by setting up T-Hub, WE-Hub, and T-Works.He opined that companies should rethink about setting up major industries in a single country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-urges-europe-to-invest-in-telangana/articleshow/75610071.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops call for patience from workers||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad and Rachakonda police have appealed to migrant workers to remain patient and wait for their turn to go home. They even asked them to consider taking up available work in the city. Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar conveyed that the government has made arrangements for safe travel of the migrant workers to different states. “But, as train services are very limited and the receiving state governments have to consent the movement, it will take time,” Sajjanar said. With several industries starting operations and construction activity also permitted, Sajjanar urged workers to start working here rather than going home and being placed under quarantine.Meanwhile, Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat visited the labourer registration counter in Vanasthalipuram and interacted with them. He too asked them to stay back if possible and contribute to the state’s development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-call-for-patience-from-workers/articleshow/75610023.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Fever survey across Telangana on the cards||HYDERABAD: With no definite treatment protocol in place and a vaccine yet to be introduced, a coronavirus screening survey in the state looks likely. Asha workers are likely to get the responsibility to conduct this survey. “They (Asha workers) are already burdened and any additional work will need additional payment. This needs to be worked out” said an official adding that each worker can be allotted about 1,000 people and a decision may be taken soon. Presently, there are around 32,000 Asha workers in the state providing 60 different kinds of services. Each worker is paid Rs 5,000 per month for their services. Across the country, 10 lakh Asha workers are employed under the National Health Mission. During the screening, if any one is found to be have fever-like symptoms they will be sent to primary health centres (PHC) where they will be tested further, with the help of X-rays, to know more about the symptoms. Currently PHCs are not equipped with X-ray machines and will have to be set up.  “The virus will not go for some time. In this case, it is better to be vigilant in the present circumstances” said a top source with the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fever-survey-across-state-on-the-cards/articleshow/75610049.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Don’t let domestic helps work at home till May 15, says municipal department||HYDERABAD: The municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department has instructed residential welfare associations (RWAs), gated communities, apartments owners and residents to refrain from allowing maids and domestic helps till May 15. However, drivers are allowed to stay in common areas. The decision was taken as there were cases of people contracting the virus from their domestic help. “After May 15, government will take a call. The order has been drafted taking into consideration several factors,” said Arvind Kumar, principal secretary MA&UD department. He said the order has been drafted keeping in mind the safety of maids, domestic help apart from people who hire them for work. “Domestic help working in multiple houses, commuting through buffer zone and their daily commute were some factors taken into consideration before the order was rolled out,” he added. The rule applies to Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. On Thursday, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation(GHMC) zonal commissioners were instructed to monitor the activity. In case there is any pressing need, a clearly written “No Objection Certificate” (NOC) should be obtained from the concerned GHMC zonal commissioner. For localities falling outside GHMC limits, the concerned municipal commissioner in urban local bodies (ULB) shall monitor the activity and the onus of issuing the NOC lies with them. The order was issued after many RWAs and apartment owners as well as gated communities sought clarification whether outsiders like delivery staff and domestic help - including maids and house help - can be permitted during the lockdown period. Speaking to TOI many residents welcomed the move. “We are not allowing maids as it is a threat to them as well as to us,” said Vivek Varma a resident of Jayabheri Orange County in Nanakramguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-let-helps-work-at-home-till-may-15-municipal-dept/articleshow/75609882.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Criminal with Rs 25,000 bounty nabbed after encounter||BAREILLY: A wanted criminal, who was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head, was arrested on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, after an encounter with police at Chandausi in Sambhal district. The criminal and a police constable were injured. This was the second gun battle in two days in Sambhal. Another criminal was arrested after an police encounter on Tuesday. A police constable was also injured in that shootout. The assailant was identified as Nadeem, wanted for six cases of robbery and road rage in Sambhal district, police said. Yamuna Prasad, superintendent of police, said a police team was checking vehicles at Raya Khurd crossing, when it signalled two men on a motorcycle to stop. “When our team tried to stop the two fon a motorbike, they opened fire. A constable, Rohit, was injured in the firing.” The police team retaliated and Nadeem was injured in the exchange of fire, the SP added. His accomplice managed to flee. Both injured men have been admitted to hospital and are stated to be in a stable, police said. “We are conducting raids to nab the absconder," SP Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/criminal-with-25k-bounty-nabbed-after-encounter/articleshow/75608534.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Told to rejoin work, lecturers wonder how to commute||BENGALURU: Resentment is running high among first-grade government and aided college lecturers after the department of collegiate education asked all its teaching faculty members to return to work in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru. With the three districts falling under the red zone, absence of public transport is a major problem the educators are facing. “People like me who rely on public transport are at a loss on what to do. Some of us carpool and walk some distance to college. Not to mention the risk of exposure to virus,” said a lecturer from a Bengaluru government college. Times ViewThere are two issues here. If the call for teachers to return to work is an indication of the situation in red zones improving, why aren’t public transport workers being asked to return first? Surely, the first step towards restoration of normalcy should begin with public transportation. If the risk of infection in red zones is not reducing - current data don’t indicate a trend one way or another yet - why are teachers being asked to come back?It is well and good for the government to ask its employees to return to work, but it also needs to ensure they have the means to do so.“Some teachers who had travelled to their hometowns and villages for Ugadi are still unable to get back to the city. In my department, we have teachers taking online classes from Bidar and Davanagere. There are faculty members from places like Rajarajeshwari Nagar who find it difficult to travel out of the ward,” said another lecturer. The department, however, maintained the circular is in keeping with the government directive asking all six lakh government employees to get back to work. “Many teachers conducted online classes and over 3,000 videos were uploaded. However, there are some who couldn’t do so due to network issues or lack of resources. These teachers can use the computer lab for work. Teachers whose subjects have practicals can make demo videos from college labs. University Grants Commission has already issued guidelines with a set of tentative dates, based on which teachers have been assigned duties,” said Pradeep P, commissioner of department of collegiate education. However, many teachers are of a different opinion. They feel demo classes may not help and lack of infrastructure is also a problem. The department has also issued a set of instructions for teachers on the duties they have to finish on campus, including working on details for NAAC and preparatory work for next academic year’s admissions. According to the department, all teaching faculty members and 33% of group C and D employees have to be present in red zones. The teachers are to continue classes online for UG and PG courses, upload PPTs, PDFs and videos on social media, WhatsApp groups or the college website. Needed: Hands-on learning Demo classes for practicals is like teaching swimming by post. Students need to conduct experiments by themselves to learn. Considering the current situation, online teaching seems to be the only solution, but it’s not foolproof. Even infrastructure is not up to mark in government colleges. Computers in the lab don’t have cameras and the network is poor in my staff room - A lecturer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/told-to-rejoin-work-lecturers-wonder-how-to-commute/articleshow/75610681.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Panchayat VP arrested for marrying minor girl||TUTICORIN: The Tuticorin district police arrested a 36-year-old panchayat vice-president on Thursday for marrying a minor girl. District child protection officer (DCPO) B Jothikumar said the 17-year-old girl from Nanguneri, was a Class 12 student and the youngest daughter. “Her parents were not financially sound . They solemnised her wedding with Sundar Raj of Asirvathapuram,” he said. The wedding took place in Peikulam village on Wednesday morning, but could not be stopped as information reached Childline and child protection unit only by afternoon. A team of officials rushed to Raj’s place and rescued the girl. She was taken to the reception unit for rescued girls in Tuticorin. The Tiruchendur all women police station booked the accused and his parents under sections 9 (punishment for male adult marrying a child) and 10 (punishment for solemnising a child marriage) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006. “Sundar Raj was arrested remanded in judicial custody on Thursday,” said inspector of AWPS, Prema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/panchayat-vp-arrested-for-marrying-minor-girl/articleshow/75612889.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad society bans doctors’ entry into their own homes||GHAZIABAD: Calling it “discriminatory”, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has objected to an advisory from the Ghaziabad administration asking the city’s doctors and paramedical staff who work in Delhi to stay back in the national capital and not travel home daily. And within hours of the IMA saying such advisories would only give RWAs the opportunity to harass and “selectively target” the doctor community, a condominium in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali did just that. It banned the entry of medicos residing in the society from Sunday, taking the bizarre step of denying people entry to their own houses. The apartment owners association (AOA) of Neelpadam Kunj cited a letter from Ghaziabad municipal corporation commissioner Dinesh Chandra in its notice, which said, “We respectfully appeal to our fellow residents, who are doctors, paramedical staff and working in different hospitals in Delhi to make a temporary arrangement of their stay in Delhi till the lockdown period and attend their duties from Delhi-based residence only. As we are already staying in a government-sealed complex, we have to implement this at the earliest date. Hence, we will stop the exit and entry of doctors and paramedical staff who are residing in NPK from early morning of Sunday onwards.” The society is in a containment zone. Ram Tiwari, the AOA head, could not be contacted for comments. The district administration later came out with a clarification, saying it had just made an appeal to doctors to stay back in Delhi. But a slew of directives, advisories and orders during the lockdown have created a haze around rules and laid the ground for arbitrary notices like these to be issued by RWAs and AOAs. Although the appeal had been issued by the health department on April 30, it came to the notice of doctors only this Wednesday after Chandra directed officials to coordinate with local councillors and RWA office-bearers and publicise the directive. Chandra told TOI his “instructions” were based on the CMO’s “appeal”. Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said police would look into the AOA notice. “We haven’t received a complaint yet,” he said. The IMA came out with a statement on Thursday, said it would not accept the “objectionable” letter. “The RWA does not have any right to stop any person from coming to his residence. It is an infringement of one’s right and a punishable offence. To say that the doctor or paramedical staff is at risk of spreading corona in the public is highly condemnable. Are you (district authorities) pitting RWA against the doctor?” the statement read. IMA treasurer Navneet Kumar Verma said the health department’s notice would only dampen the morale of doctors and paramedical staff. “This will encourage the society to see doctors with contempt. RWAs will selectively target doctors and paramedical staff and prevent them from coming to their home and obstruct their work,” he said. “Instead of this, the administration should have urged the Delhi government to make arrangements for its employees. We would also like to question if only healthcare staff are bringing coronavirus from Delhi to Ghaziabad,” he added. The IMA also objected to the language used in the health department’s directive. It demanded that the order be withdrawn soon and requested the administration not to issue any such directive in the future. “All are working in some form or the other by putting their lives at stake here. Passing orders with such confusing language is not acceptable at all,” the statement said. Following the controversy, the Ghaziabad health department issued a clarification on Thursday evening that the April 30 notice was only an advisory and not an order. “The appeal was made keeping in mind the rising number of cases related to movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad, and on the basis of the surveillance team’s report that there is a huge chance of cross-border transmission of the infection. However, it is just an advisory and not binding on anyone,” chief medical officer NK Gupta said “We have also made arrangements for people from other districts who work here so that they do not go back home,” he added. Read this story in BengaliWatch Covid-19: Ghaziabad society bans entry of doctors, AIIMS RDA seeks intervention by Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-society-bans-doctors-entry-into-their-own-homes/articleshow/75611981.cms||Aditya Dev
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Four booked for attempt to murder, one nabbed||PILIBHIT: Police on Thursday morning booked four villagers of Inta Roda village under Bisalpur Kotwali police station, for grievously attacking another villager with sharp-edged weapons with the intention to kill him. One of the accused was nabbed by police on the spot. The incident occurred on Wednesday evening after a dispute involving expenditure of money on the welfare of a temple. The complainant, Narendra Pal, said his younger brother Krishna Kumar had felled a semal (silk cotton) tree that stood along a narrow road in the village, with the consent of other villagers, as it was obstructing traffic, especially movement of tractor-trolleys. As the land on which the tree stood belonged to the government, they spent the money from selling the timber on renovating the village temple, he added. Annoyed that the public money had been spent on the temple, one Iqbal Ahmad of the same village and his three aides obstructed Krishna Kumar’s way, dragged him to a lonely spot and assaulted him. Kumar, who received serious injuries, was eventually rescued by other Muslim villagers, who rushed to the spot on hearing his screams. SHO K K Tiwari said Iqbal and his aides, Nayeem, Guddu and Chand Mian, were booked under sections 307 (attempt to kill), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention). Of the four accused, Iqbal Ahmad, identified as the key accused, was arrested, Tiwari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-one-nabbed/articleshow/75608552.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Migrants in a fix over lack of information||HYDERABAD: Lack of proper information about e-pass registrations and trains has left migrant workers running from pillar to post. With no local transport available, migrants are trudging towards the Secunderabad railway station to board trains, unaware that it was shut. “The special trains are from Ghatkesar, Charlapally, Bibinagar and Lingampally stations. But everyday a few migrants come here enquiring about the trains,” said a cop on duty at the entrance of the Secunderabad station. Among them is 20-year-old Ranjan Sarkar. He along with four others, employed in Nagarkurnool district, walked about 60 km from Shadnagar to Secunderabad station, only to find out that they couldn’t board a train home from there. “ We waited there for a day but were not provided any information,” said Ranjan adding that they eventually walked to Secunderabad. But with no luck even there, the workers have been waiting in front of the Gopalapuram police station (close to the station), for the last two days. When contacted, a senior police official from Hyderabad commissionerate said: “Revenue and police authorities have been picking up migrant workers from various places. But we realised, they are very anxious to return, due to which they have been walking 30 to 100 km. While our officers are giving them information, we cannot give them assurance about when they will be sent back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-in-a-fix-over-lack-of-info/articleshow/75610015.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No more containment clusters, only home quarantine from now||HYDERABAD: With new positive cases becoming a daily norm, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has tweaked the concept of containment clusters and decided to quarantine only the house or the apartment of the affected, instead of locking down the entire locality. “We are imposing home containment and if needed we are locking the house from outside. As people complained of hardships due to containment clusters, the government decided to resort to home containment,” a GHMC official said. Civic officials are pasting home quarantine stickers and a quarantine stamp is also put on the hand. After this the primary contacts are being probed. “Now we are only testing the primary contacts, who are having symptoms of coronavirus,” said a GHMC official. The houses contained and their primary contacts will be under vigil. “The surveillance team will update us if the home quarantine guidelines are flouted. Action will be initiated against people flouting home quarantine rules. People can also report irregularities at 040 2111 1111,” sa id a GHMC official. In case of emergency, people who are home quarantined can approach GHMC by calling the same number. For vegetables mobile Rythu Bazars will be pressed into service in the localities where a house or building has been contained. On Thursday, municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) principal secretary Arvind Kumar held a meeting with GHMC officials on the coronavirus situation. Civic officials were instructed to ensure spraying of disinfectants continues in localities where positive cases are traced. “Even containment zones which are de-notified will be sanitised,” said a GHMC official. In the meeting it was also decided to seal markets and rythu bazars which do not follow social distancing. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar, Hyderabad collector Shweta Mohanty and GHMC zonal commissioners attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-more-containment-clusters-only-home-quarantine-from-now/articleshow/75609915.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Nagpur-bound migrants get food and footwear in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: Moved by the plight of the migrant workers walking along the highway, several people displayed a big heart at Armoor in Nizamabad district. The generosity of the locals was captured live on Facebook on Thursday. The 3 minute 26 second video instantly got 6.6 lakh views, 182 shares and many commented lauding the gesture. Several migrants, who were walking towards Nagpur from Hyderabad, were stopped by A Ganga Reddy, who spotted them on NH 44. Reddy, who has an MBA degree from the UK, hired a DCM van to transport them to Nagpur. Even as Reddy is busy with the logistics, a group of youngsters approached the migrants with some food. Reddy had no clue about this group. “We saw these men and some women carrying their children. So we came to serve them food,” one of the youth from Velpur village, was heard talking to Reddy. As the migrants finished taking food and were about to settle in the DCM, another person Ravinder came with brand new footwear for the migrants. Ravinder said that he is from a nearby village. “We have been providing footwear to the migrants for several days. As they are walking in the hot sun, the footwear will be of some help,” Ravinder said. According to Ganga Reddy, thousands of people were seen walking on NH-44 everyday. They are headed to Chattisgarh, UP, Bihar and Maharashtra. With the Centre making it clear that migrants can be allowed to proceed in vehicles to their destinations, people are helping them by making travel arrangements. Truck drivers and others too are offering help to the migrants by transporting them up to some point. “The three different groups of people, unknown to each other, coming together to help migrants in their own way, is a demonstration of ‘people for people’ attitude. This is unique. That is the reason why I decided to share it live on FB,” Ganga Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nagpur-bound-migrants-get-food-footwear-in-nzb/articleshow/75609973.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara couple wedlocked amid lockdown with 20 guests only||Vadodara: When the pheras were done and the newlywed couple sought blessings, all the 20-odd guests blessed them saying, “Stay safe!” Amid the pandemic threat, a new chapter began in the lives of Amit Arya and Kanchan Santlani, who got married on Thursday in a small get-together. Shorn of all the usual wedding extravaganza, the couple took their sacred vows in a simple ceremony surrounded by their immediate families, and of course, the priest. Dressed to the hilt, all the guests were seated with face masks at a distance from each other at the Arya Samaj Temple in Warasia, while even the couple and the priest, who was reading the sermons, too kept their masks firmly on. The relatives earlier wanting the first wedding in the two families to be a grand affair, had indefinitely postponed the event. But they came to know that the wedding can take place, albeit within the restrictive norms including social distancing, masks et al. The families then sought permission from the district collector and got a go-ahead.While the groom, Amit, helps in his father’s business, the bride, Kanchan, is a student of chartered accountancy. Amit’s father Ved Prakash Arya told TOI: “We had planned for a big wedding as it is the first in both the families after many years. But nobody can can go against nature, or destiny. If it has to be this way, so be it. Hence, we followed all the guidelines and in presence of 20 people, solemnized the ceremony.” Ved Prakash, who is in the garment business, said that the extended family members watched the entire ceremony through video calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-couple-wedlocked-amid-lockdown-with-20-guests-only/articleshow/75609764.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Dehradun||Chamoli villagers take to street to protest against opening of liquor shops||DEHRADUN: Scores of villagers of Deval block in Chamoli came out to protest against the opening of the liquor shops in the district on Thursday. They even courted arrest when the police removed them from the main market. The incident took place around 10 am. A group of women and a few men from the near-by villages gathered outside a liquor shop in the market and demanded its immediate closure. A protester, Ranjan Singh Bisht, said, “We have been demanding the closure of the liquor shops, but the district administration and the local police have not heeded our demand. We want the liquor shops to remain closed till the Covid-19 outbreak is over.” Another protester, Asha Dhapula, said, “Police is saying that the liquor shops are open as per the state government’s directions. But no one is taking our objections seriously. The opening of liquor shops will mark the return of drunkards who create ruckus. We have been living peacefully during the lockdown, but if liquor shops open, our peaceful days will be over.” The protesters were later taken to Tharali police station and were let off with a warning. A local policeman in Tharali, told TOI, “We removed the protesters from the site because they were blocking traffic. They were taken to the police station and let off subsequently.” Deval block has over 46 villages and has a population of 25,000. Recently, the state government had allowed liquor shops to function and they have been witnessing long queues ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-villagers-take-to-street-to-protest-against-opening-of-liquor-shops/articleshow/75608555.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 8, 2020||Madurai||36 lodges to isolate foreign travellers||Madurai: The Dindigul district administrtaion has asked lodge owners to keep themselves prepared to home quarantine people who come from abroad when the lockdown is eased, and has identified 36 lodges for the purpose. Dindigul collector, M Vijayalakshmi, held a meeting with the owners on Thursday. She told them that Covid-19 positive people from Dindigul district are at present being treated at the Karur Medical College hospital. In the event of hospital beds becoming insufficient, many private institutions have been identified to isolate the patients. This included, Anna Engineering College, Gandhigram Rural Institute and Arulmigu Palaniandavar Arts College. People coming from other states were being screened at the checkposts and quarantined in educational institutions nearby till their results are received. Vijayalakshmi said the government had ordered that districts neighbouring the ones that have international airports should keep facilities ready to quarantine people who come into the country. So, a precautionary measure, the 36 lodges have been identified. They have a capacity to accommodate 4,496 people and categorised into A, B and C. Rates have been fixed for a 15-day stay, including food. The lodge owners association said that many international travellers have expressed their willingness to stay in their hotels and lodges as and when they arrive in India. The collector said that other establishments should also be ready to provide rooms in the event of more international passengers coming in. When people are quarantined on the premises, lodges would not be allowed to rent their rooms to others, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/36-lodges-to-isolate-foreign-travellers/articleshow/75612885.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||With 4 more Covid deaths in Akola, Vid cases surge to 554||Nagpur: After recording highest single day spurt in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Vidarbha recorded highest single-day deaths on Thursday. Four deaths were reported in Akola, highest for a city in one day as well. Officials from Akola informed all four were men living within the Akola municipal corporation limits. “Two of them were brought to Akola GMCH in a critical condition on Wednesday and died immediately afterwards. Their swab samples were taken on Wednesday and came positive today. Other two were the patients admitted in isolation ward. They died during treatment,” said resident deputy collector of Akola Sanjay Khadse. After 68 cases on Wednesday, Nagpur continued to record new positive cases on Thursday too. Total of 38 new cases were reported throughout the day. Of these, three were the patients of Severe Acute Respiratory syndrome (SARI). As per the ICMR guidelines, all patients having SARI are tested for Covid-19. For the first time, three such cases tested positive. Amravati reported six new positive cases to take its count to 76 on Thursday. This took the count of active Covid-19 cases to 59 in the 60-bedded Covid hospital in city. New cases are from Taj Nagar and Maulana Azad Colony. Taj Nagar accounted for five of the six cases, thereby taking its tally to 13 (including one death), the highest from any single locality. Maulana Azad Colony, which reported death of a 70-year-old woman two days ago, posted its second case today. Seven of the active positive cases at Covid hospital are on way to recovery as their first swab test after treatment has come negative. Yavatmal recorded no new positive patient on Thursday. The total active Covid-19 cases in isolation ward of Yavatmal GMCH are 82 now. In the last 24 hours, only two new admissions are reported there. 145 swab samples were sent to Nagpur on Thursday. On Wednesday, a 50-year-old man had tested positive from Ner town, 30 km from Yavatmal. He is a teacher who was infected from the earlier positive patients from single source who had visited Ner during religious tour. QUARANTINED PERSON BOOKED: Raju Datta Rakade, a resident of village Hivra under Mahagaon police station and a labourer kept in quarantine, was booked for violating it. He had returned to his village on May 6 and the Disaster Management Committee had quarantined him. Since he has no house of his own, they arranged his stay in local primary school. However, he started moving freely in the village and mixing with other people. The Disaster Management Committee chairman MI Sheikh, police patil Pravin Kadam and village development officer VD Sawalkar jointly lodged a complaint in Mahagaon police station against Raju on Thursday. Chandrapur recorded no new case on Thursday. Gadchandur police detained three people from Manikgarh cement factory premises suspecting them to be three positive patients who had fled from Nanded. Cops later stated that names given by them do not match those of Nanded patients. Still as a precautionary measure a medical team with cops from Nanded came to Gadchandur and took the three with them to Nanded for identification and medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-4-more-covid-deaths-in-akola-vid-cases-surge-to-554/articleshow/75613373.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Girl tries to kill self after row with dad||Madurai: An 18-year-old girl who attempted suicide by immolating herself after her father picked up a quarrel under the influence of alcohol, is battling for her life in hospital. The girl’s mother, who tried to save her also suffered grievous injuries and is stated to be critical. The incident took place in Nagathamman Kovil Street in Alanganallur a few hours after Tasmac outlets opened for the first time in several weeks. The victim, who is pursuing first year BA student and her mother are undergoing treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/girl-tries-to-kill-self-after-row-with-dad/articleshow/75612896.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Youth who returned from Chhattisgarh dies in Pilibhit, Covid-19 suspected||PILIBHIT: A 24-year-old youth, who had returned to his native place in Neuria town with four colleagues during the lockdown from Chhattisgarh, where he worked as a cycle mechanic, died on Thursday evening, minutes after he was admitted to Neuria community health center (CHC). His family said the youth was suffering from high fever with respiratory congestion since Thursday morning. They also alleged the doctor on duty at the CHC declined to attend to him from fear of transmission of Covid-19. The youth died 15 minutes after they reached the CHC, the family claimed. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Seema Agarwal, said the health department had been informed that the youth’s family already reported that he had been vomiting, following which, he had been shifted to the CHC on a government ambulance. She said the administration will send his body for autopsy to identify the cause of death. His family demanded that the youth be tested for Covid-19, which, the CMO has clarified, is not possible during autopsy. On being asked if the youth had been quarantined after his return, additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi said he and his four colleagues had been duly screened for novel coronavirus at the time, when none of them had shown any symptoms, as a result of which they had been recommended home quarantine. But apprehensive of the youth having died of Covid-19, the department has now decided to send samples of nasal and throat swabs of all his four colleagues for testing, said Chaturvedi. Neuria police station SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said the dead body has been sent to the mortuary of the district government hospital, Pilibhit, where his autopsy wil be conducted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-who-returned-from-chhattisgarh-dies-in-pilibhit-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75608568.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Festival off, but devotees hold ritual on Vaigai||Madurai: The Chithra Pournami festival that was supposed to be held on Thursday was cancelled, owing to the lockdown in place, but the devotees performed rituals at the Vaigai river bed. Chithra Pournami, the full moon day in the Tamil month of Chithirai, marks the culminating event of the 15-day Chithirai festival when the deity Lord Kallazhagar enters river Vaigai. The deity is taken as a procession from Alagarkoil to the banks of Vaigai river. But the event was cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 crisis. A handful of devotees who were not willing to give the rituals connected with the festival a miss gathered on the banks of Vaigai river in the morning on Thursday. One of the devotees, Muthumeenal, from Thiruparankundram, brought her two-year-old granddaughter for tonsuring her head on the river bed. The local barber had accompanied them, and he tonsured the child’s head near Alwarpuram on the Vaigai river bank. Muthumeenal and her family then lit a camphor and performed a pooja before leaving. ``I took a vow to get my granddaughter’s head tonsured on this auspicious day after she turned two and there was no way I would have skipped it,’’ said Muthumeenal. Shankar, another devotee said that he made offering to the almighty at the river bank. “We believe God is here and we hope the festival takes place as usual next year,’’ he said. All the devotees ensured physical distancing while performing the rituals. Many devotees were disappointed that the deity from Alagarkoil temple would not be brought to Madurai this year as part of festival. A group of people in West Kanmoi street in Tallakulam, made a makeshift palanquin and placed an idol of lord Vishnu on it and carried it along the streets, to make up for the ritual being cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/festival-off-but-devotees-hold-ritual-on-vaigai/articleshow/75612893.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Consider Dakshina Kannada, Udupi as contiguous unit for inter-district movement, urges Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry||MANGALURU: Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar to consider erstwhile undivided Dakshina Kannada district including present Udupi as a single unit for the purposes of Covid-19 inter-district movement. The two districts are an urban agglomeration with most population residing in suburbs/towns. Office staff, technical crew and labour of many industries reside in either districts. Drawing attention of the state’s top bureaucrat to the fact that people commute daily for work, thanks to an efficient transport system, Isaac Vas, president, KCCI said, the government has considered Bengaluru rural, Bengaluru Urban, Ramanagara, Chikkaballapur and Kolar as one unit vide order RD158/TNR 2020 dated May 3, 2020 (Clause 2(a). Udupi was carved out of Dakshina Kannada in 1997 for administrative purposes but emotionally remain one. The present restriction on inter-district movement in view of the lockdown is hindering kick-starting of industries and commerce. Workers are deprived of their livelihood and industry and business owners are finding it challenging to move forward. To add to this, the migrant labour is moving back to their native places further aggravating the situation. Stakeholders have requested KCCI to take up this matter with the government, Isaac said. Urging the bureaucrat to consider these two districts as one geographical area for the movement of people and private vehicles, he said the above order of his could be used as a precedent. “We earnestly request you to let DK and Udupi function on the same lines. This will facilitate movement of people for employment and business in both districts,” he said while urging to issue direction to the district administrations of both districts for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/consider-dakshina-kannada-udupi-as-contiguous-unit-for-inter-district-movement-urges-kanara-chamber-of-commerce-and-industry/articleshow/75613711.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 8, 2020||Madurai||1 lakh litre Kudineer distributed so far||Madurai: The city corporation, which started distributing ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ as an immunity booster for the last couple of weeks, has distributed up to 1.17 lakh litre of the decoction till Thursday. Officials said that 10,000 litre are being distributed every day on an average. The Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said that the decoction has reached every household in the containment zones. It is prepared at one spot and distributed through health workers, who carry it in stainless steel cans and deliver it using vehicles. There are 17 containment zones in Madurai as of Thursday and for people in non-containment zones in the city, it is being distributed through primary health centres and Amma Canteens. On an average, it is being distributed to 1.8 lakh people per day. Officials from the corporation said that 25 lakh servings have been made so far. Apart from it, 628 kg of Kabasura Kudineer powder, which has been procured at Rs 720 a kg, has also been distributed to households in containment areas. “The powder has also been distributed to corporation employees including health workers. Around 6,000 health workers and 2,000 employees from other departments have been deployed for containment measures,” an official said. They have already been given multi-vitamin and zinc tablets. All the frontline workers of the corporation are being given a banana every day as it contains zinc. The tablets have also been distributed to residents in containment zones. A large number of health workers were deployed at newly declared containment area in Meenambalpuram. Visakan said that disinfection is being carried out in all the containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1-lakh-litre-kudineer-distributed-so-far/articleshow/75612900.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Cheers, protests as liquor outlets reopen after over a month in dist||Madurai: Relief and joy filled him in equal measure as retired army man M Selva walked away from a retail liquor store, carrying a full bottle of whisky after Covid-19 lockdown forced him to stay sober for over a month, here on Thursday. “It has been over 40 days without a drop of alcohol. It was difficult. I am happy to get a bottle after a long time,” said Selva, returning home on his bike from Anna Nagar where the shop was open. Selva was one of many others who were lucky to be able to drink after month’s break. The district boasts 265 retail Tasmac shops, of which 51 in the containment zoned remained shut. A few other outlets did not resume operations due to unavailability of liqour. As the outlets were opened, a large number of tipplers made a beeline for the retail units. Anticipating a heavy rush for the liquor, police were in place in each outlet to ensure they maintained social distancing. The police constantly reminded tipplers through public address system that only those carrying aadhar card will be allowed to buy liqour. Youngsters, who turned up earlier than the time allotted for them, were sent back by the police. Later in the day, people of all ages were allowed to buy alcohol. Wooden poles set up to streamline crowd in front every shop. While police managed the crowd for a few hours, they retreated to nearby shelters, after finding the heat too much to handle. As police took cover from blazing sun, tipplers began stepping out of their allotted space, standing much more close to each other in the queue. Some shops of the rural areas saw hundreds thronged in their desperate bids to buy alcohol. Opposition parties like DMK, CPI (M), VCK and Congress staged stir in the city and rural areas, wearing black badge. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, DMK urban district secretary K Thalapathi, urban district president of Congress Karthikeyan, CPI (M) urban district secretary Vijayaragavan were present. Similar protests were organized at Thirumangalam, Uthapanaikanur, Usilampatti and Silaiman. Members of Madurai Makkal Pathai staged a protest at Thirunagar against the reopening Tasmac shops. Protestors poured alcohol in drainage to express their opposition at the state decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cheers-protests-as-liquor-outlets-reopen-after-over-a-month-in-dist/articleshow/75612903.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||UPSBC resumes Choupla flyover construction during lockdown||BAREILLY: The Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) has resumed construction work of Choupla flyover in the city. Officials at Bridge Corporation told TOI on Thursday that only 15% of construction work was completed in the project and thus, work has now been taken up even as the lockdown is still in place. All measures pertaining to pandemic are being followed. The labour deputed at the construction site has been directed to strictly adhere to the guidelines of social distancing while proper hand gloves, face masks, sanitisers have also been provided. Work on other pending projects will be resumed soon, said officials. UPSBC deputy project manager (DPM) Bareilly, BK Sen told TOI, “We have resumed construction of Choupla flyover in the city considering that much work is pending in the project. At present, carrying out construction is much easier as there is no traffic on roads and we do not need to do barricading. We wanted to utilize the lockdown period and thus, construction finally resumed on Thursday. So far, only 15% of work has been done in flyover construction at Choupla, but now, work has been taken up on a war footing.” DPM Sen added, “All precautions are being taken by the Bridge Corporation and the entire labour assigned at the project site. The workers have been issued guidelines to maintain social distancing even as they work in field and follow all rules and regulations stated during the Covid lockdown. Each one of them has been provided face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves to protect themselves.” Officials at UP State Bridge Corporation said that thermal screening of workers deputed will also be conducted from time to time while necessary steps are being taken up by the corporation employees, engineers, among others, who visit the project site. While all of them are being frequently briefed and sensitised of the dos and don’ts related to the pandemic. The construction of Choupla flyover in the city was taken up by UPSBC in 2019. Being developed at a total cost of Rs 59 crore, the 793-metre flyover is being constructed to ease traffic burden from Choupla junction and existing Badaun flyover. DPM Sen further said, “The upcoming flyover will connect Ayub Khan, Police Lines, Quila crossing and existing Badaun flyover. We have set July 2021 as the deadline to complete the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsbc-resumes-choupla-flyover-construction-during-lockdown/articleshow/75608595.cms||Maria Khan
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||NMC seals several areas, cops catering to migrants at borders||Nagpur: With fresh coronavirus cases emerging from hitherto unaffected areas, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has issued orders for sealing these areas. These include Kushi Nagar (near Jaripatka), Nirala Society on Umred Road, Tajabad Azad Colony, and Hudco ST Quarters, Ganeshpeth. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also closed down all stationery and hosiery shops in entire Dhantoli zone. This means such shops are closed in almost half the city. Mundhe stated in his order that only shops selling grocery and medicines would remain open in Dhantoli zone. In a major turnaround, the state government has relaxed the norms for screening of migrant workers who wish to leave the state. Earlier, every worker had to be issued an individual certificate. Now, a group certificate will do. The circular states that a single list of passengers indicating they have been screened and found not to be displaying any influenza-like illness be issued by medical person in-charge. There will be no need for individual certification and a certification of passengers manifest shall suffice. As per norms, the person desirous of travelling to home state should be screened at the time of starting the journey by use of digital thermometer and symptomatic examination. This is to be done through medical officers of government or municipal hospitals. If they are not available, the concerned municipal body should hire private doctors and pay for their services. Thousands of migrant workers are passing through Nagpur district on their way home. They are being screened at Jamtha by doctors doing social work. Meanwhile, the police department is arranging meals and clothes for migrants passing through the district, and also buses for transporting them home. A press release issued by the department stated that food was being provided to the migrants with the help of National Cadet Corps (NCC), ex-servicemen and social organizations. Lists were being prepared of the home state of the migrants, and number of persons desirous of going there was mentioned. “Pandals have been erected to provide them shade. They are being provided clothes, shoes, cloth bags etc. So far 50 private buses have been arranged for taking them to other states,” said the department. The police have set up seven check posts at Butibori, Panjri, Pardi, Dighori, Koradi, Kamptee and Wadi. Migrants have stopped here for food and rest in large numbers. Maximum number of people have halted at Panjri check post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seals-several-areas-cops-catering-to-migrants-at-borders/articleshow/75613379.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Residents slam corporation for political posts on social media||Trichy: The social media accounts of Trichy Corporation, which were revived recently after a two-month lull, have been criticised by residents for not sharing awareness messages and statistics on Covid-19 as done by other civic bodies. The corporation had shared a video of a state minister distributing welfare kits on Facebook and Twitter, which did not go well with the public. They wanted the civic body to be responsible in sharing Covid-19 updates.Residents were demanding that the social media handles are activated so that live updates about containment zones will be known to the public. On May 6, the civic body reactivated the accounts.Immediately, a video of Trichy East MLA and tourism minister Vellamandi Natarajan distributing welfare aid to people was shared. This attracted backlash from the public with many criticising the corporation for sharing political posts. “It is unprofessional for a civic body to share such videos. It can share info on Covid-19 hotspots and preventive measures taken,” I Prasanna, a resident of Subramaniapuram said.While many corporation staff are unaware of the official social media handles, officials assured that information will be shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-slam-corporation-for-political-posts-on-social-media/articleshow/75611406.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 8, 2020||Chennai||For Indians abroad, it’s an agonizing wait to get home||Chennai: A young pregnant woman and her husband, both on unpaid leave in Dubai, desperate to return home in Chennai; a dejected young man in Kuala Lumpur, sacked by his company after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the globe, forced to return home in Chennai; a distraught son in the US waiting to see his mother’s body — for many Indians abroad, the wait to get back home has been agonizing. Satheesh Muthupandi, an Indian in Pleasanton, California, told TOI that several Indians who formed a Facebook group decided to draw lots to hasten the waiting line. “At least 7,000 Indians are in queue. This is the number I know. There could be thousands more,” said Muthupandi, waiting to see the embalmed body of his mother who died in Chennai on April 1. Thousands of overseas Indians around the world, many of them laid off, patients, students and tourists are waiting anxiously for evacuation flights. After a long and painful wait, the first batch in Abu Dhabi on Thursday boarded two Air India flights to Kochi. On Friday, it would be the turn of Indians from Abu Dhabi to Chennai. “The Indian government is calling it the world’s largest evacuation with the fancy tag of ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. But, if they are operating only two flights a day from the UAE, it will take 564 days to fly out just the 2 lakh registered Indians,” Garth Mitchell, a volunteer with Valley of Love, an NGO in Dubai, told TOI. Some believe there may be deals being struck to get them on board. In Kuala Lumpur, the first rescue flight to Chennai has been scheduled to depart on May 9. Students and tourists, stranded in Malaysia, are worried whether they will be able to get a seat on the plane. In a group of 60 people who have come together to help each other, only a few got confirmation for travel on a flight to Trichy. Others keep getting calls from the Indian high commission but with no assurance. Manigandan Govindaraj from Chennai, stuck in Kuala Lumpur after he lost his job, said, “I got a call from the high commission regarding my flight. But I am not sure if I will be accommodated in the first flight. They told me priority is for senior citizens, patients, children and pregnant women." Students are high on the priority list. Aishwarya S is worried. Though she has completed her project, she lives with five other students in an accommodation provided by the college. She has not received a call about flights to Chennai or Trichy. She opted for Chennai when she registered with the Indian high commission. In Dubai, Aishwarya and her husband Ananda Kannan are worried too. “I have been advised not to travel after May 20. I have no hope of leaving here before that,” she said. Registration for travel back to India began last week. “I have sent the embassy several mails. They keep asking me to wait,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-indians-abroad-its-an-agonizing-wait-to-get-home/articleshow/75611410.cms||Jaya Menon
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: MNC booked for culpable homicide||HYDERABAD: Hours after the tragedy, AP police booked a criminal case against top South Korean company LG Chem, which owns LG Polymers where styrene leaked early in the morning. Based on a complaint from Venkatapuram village revenue officer MV Subba Rao, Gopalapatnam police filed an FIR (crime No. 213 of 2020) under various sections of the India Penal Code. The polymer unit is located in Venkatapuram village. The FIR (a copy of which is available with TOI) said, “A case has been registered under sections 278, 284, 285 of IPC (dealing with the negligent act of release of obnoxious gas in air), 337 and 338 (rash and negligent act leading to injuries) and 304(2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian penal code. Andhra Pradesh police chief Gautam Sawang said the investigation would look into criminal liability as people have lost their lives. “A separate probe by the state government will look into various aspects, whether standard operating procedures, protocols were followed. It will also look into technical and operational issues,” Sawang told TOI. Police will be grilling the ground staff, who operated the storage tanks, and in-charge persons of the plant as well as the local director. Police will also probe as to how all the workers had managed to escape. Drone footages are also being obtained. Police flew drones over the area as they reached the spot early in the morning. Interestingly, the FIR did not name any individual, but only the company. In his complaint, the VRO said: “Around 3.30 am, gas leaked from LG Polymers and it resulted in deaths and hospitalisation of several people in the adjacent localities.” If proven guilty under section 304(2), the accused run the risk of facing a 10-year jail sentence and a hefty fine or both. LG Polymers India Private Ltd has South Korean nationals on its board, while P Poornachandra Mohan Rao is officiating as the local in-charge. Sawang said there were issues regarding refrigeration of storage tank. Meanwhile, South Korea-headquartered LG Chem said operations at the plant had been suspended because of a nationwide lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak and was preparing to resume operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mnc-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/75611440.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Beautician gives DIY haircut lesson on Zoom||Madurai: Even when the lockdown is eased, one thing that is troubling people is the unavailability of hairdressers and barbershops. To ease the trouble, a Madurai-based information portal, In4Net, has started organising teaching sessions to help people learn to give hair cuts. The portal’s founder, J K Muthu, says they found many people struggling to manage their overgrown hair, and decided to organise a DIY (do it yourself) session through Zoom. As many as 40 people in and around Madurai and some from other parts of the state attended the session where a beautician V Athilakshmi demonstrated how they could trim their hair or cut it using the pair of scissors they had at home. Athilakshmi said the haircuts done at home may not be as good as the ones done at a palour. “The participants were not using professional tools, it was just the scissors they had at home or the shaving razor to remove the baby hair. They had to apply water with the hand without a sprayer,” she said. Apart from the registered Zoom participants, many more watched it live on Facebook and said they found it very timely, and easy. “Knowing how to hold up the hair straight and cut it for men was shown easily using a small boy and now I can do it for my son and husband,” said Saroja K, one of the viewers. Having a beautician’s service for free made many of the users make best use of it, and they wanted to know how to manage the dandruff for which Athilakshmi gave a series of suggestions, including a pack with shallots, pepper, vasambu, curd, and lime and washing it off with shampoo. A few wanted to know how to rid facial skin of dullness. The session planned for one hour continued for two hours. Many also sought that it be conducted regularly till palours are reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beautician-gives-diy-haircut-lesson-on-zoom/articleshow/75612905.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Minister launches 100-day work scheme in Madurai||MADURAI: The 100-day work scheme under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, which was stalled for over 45 days due to the lockdown, was initiated in Thirali village in Thirumangalam union by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udaykumar on Thursday. After officially inaugurating the works, the minister praised the steps taken by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the decision to start work under the 100-day work scheme was taken as the people in the villages were badly affected due to the ongoing crisis and their economic condition had deteriorated. All workers should ensure that they wear masks and wash their hands regularly and also observe physical distancing, he added. The minister said that kudimaramathu works would be initiated to help farmers in the region. Udayakumar added that all basic amenities including access to water would be ensured in Thirali village by the district administration. Work was being initiated in 600 out of the 675 places in Madurai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-launches-100-day-work-scheme-in-madurai/articleshow/75612908.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC issues notices to 228 clinics, hospitals||Ahmedabad: Before the 48-hour deadline set by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for the private practitioners, a total of 228 clinics and hospitals in the city limits were issued notices. A note by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS (forests and environment), who has been appointed by the state government as the officer on special duty with the AMC to contain Covid-19, mentions that the private clinics, nursing homes, hospitals should open within 48 hours. “They will lose their licenses otherwise. Doctors not opening their clinics are to be activated and asked to take care of patients at Covid care centres or asymptomatic patients at home,” mentions the note. In a note on Thursday, Gupta made a change where it mentioned that the doctors above 65 years of age would be exempted from the compulsory opening. Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Thursday wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner, asking the authorities to look into practical aspects of the order. “We need backup of the staff to run our clinics. Some of them live in red or orange zones. Small clinics don’t provide identity cards,” reads the letter, adding that they also face mobility issues. The association also raised the question of patients’ movement which is restricted due to the lockdown. AHNA president Dr Bharat Gadhvi said that they had suggested appointing a nodal officer from the AMC to discuss their issues and appointment of a medical expert for administrative and clinical matters. Dr Mona Desai, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), in a letter to the municipal commissioner wrote that the notification given to the doctors by the AMC is threatening and insulting. “Bureaucrats-Doctors-Police are a triangle to contain Covid-19 and there should be mutual respect between us,” she wrote. “Our doctors who are senior citizens and who have co-morbidity will not start their practice for their and others’ safety. There is also confusion on specialities that need to be functional,” said Dr Desai. A doctor, who received the notice said that it was shocking. “The team apparently visited the spot and pasted the notice. In fact, our hospital was functional throughout the lockdown and we have proof of it. There needs to be some semblance of reason with such practices,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-issues-notices-to-228-clinics-hospitals/articleshow/75611433.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Indore||Probe against Gokuldas Hosp after dead patients’ kin cry foul||Indore: Collector Manish Singh on Thursday ordered a probe into allegations by patients’ kin about irregularities at Gokuldas Hospital following four deaths during the day. “I have asked CMHO to probe the allegations. We will be taking strict action if allegations are found true,” Singh said. A video of the allegations surfaced in the evening showing patients’ kin accusing the hospital of fleecing money and alleging that mismanagement has led to deaths of patients in short period of time. The patients’ kin were seen accusing the hospital of attempting to clear beds ‘to sanitize the medical facility’. Official sources said, “Four deaths were reported in the hospital during the day including that of a 58-year-old female suspected Covid-19 patient. Other three were two 70-year-old males and 50-year-old female. They had various conditions like bilateral pneumonia, diabetes, hypertension and cardiac issues” Former CM Kamal Nath re-tweeted the video and wrote, “This condition of Gokuldas Hospital in Indore questions health services and a serious question mark on Shivraj Singh Chouhan government’s intentions. The government should answer all questions of patients’ kin and clarify, while conducting a high-level probe into the matter. Situation in Madhya Pradesh is going out of control.” As social media went abuzz, Dr Jadia and his associates rushed to the hospital and were in the process of recording statements of patients’ kin. “We have started collecting details of what transpired at the hospital,” Jadia said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/probe-against-gokuldas-hosp-after-dead-patients-kin-cry-foul/articleshow/75611416.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Three migrant workers among 15 positive in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 15 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including three migrant workers who tested positive in Hyderabad. The tally in the state has gone up to 1,122. As many as 12 cases were reported from Greater Hyderabad limits alone. With no new deaths recorded, toll continues to remain at 29. As many as 45 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 693. The state has 400 active cases now. Twenty two districts, including Karimnagar, Siddipet and Vikarabad, have not recorded any positive cases since the past 14 days. Of the recoveries on Thursday, 22 cases were from Hyderabad, eight from Gadwal, two from Ranga Reddy and Suryapet each. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, during a press conference, had asked people to use the term “physical distance” instead of social “social distance”, to fight the Covid-19 battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-migrant-workers-among-15-ve-in-t/articleshow/75610138.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Teen girl buried alive as earth mound caves in, two rescued||BAREILLY: An 18-year-old girl was buried alive at Parchai village, under Shahi police station, on Thursday after a mound of earth caved in on her. Two other girls were also buried under the mound but were rescued by the villagers. Police said the deceased, Deepa Sharma, had gone along with her two friends, to collect soil for repairing the walls of their mud houses. After the incident, police rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation with the help of a JCB machine. By the time, the girl was pulled out, she was dead. Sansar Singh, additional superintendent of police (rural area), said, “Around 10 am, Rajendra Sharma’s daughter, Deepa, and her friends, Sheetal and Kajal, were collecting soil from a dry pond for repairing the walls of their homes when all of sudden, the earth caved in, burying the trio under a huge mound around 12-foot high. Some children who were playing nearby, raised an alarm. The villagers rushed to the spot and tried to rescue the girls while someone informed us." The ASP said that they called in a JCB machine to pull out the girls. After 30 minutes, the girls were found. The injured girls were taken to hospital, where doctors declared Deepa as brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/teen-girl-buried-alive-as-earth-mound-caves-in-two-rescued/articleshow/75608607.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 8, 2020||Trichy||No blood bank at Mannargudi hospital vexes patients||Tiruvarur: Shortage of blood due to the absence of a blood bank at Mannargudi government hospital has made patients and their relatives who are in need of blood run pillar to post. They are forced to travel to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur to donate blood. A delay in giving an approval to inaugurate the facility at Mannargudi hospital was stated to be the reason for the situation. People have appealed to the officials from Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society to take the initiative to open a blood bank there.According to sources, Mannargudi Government Hospital is equipped with all the required medical equipment for the functioning of a full-fledged blood bank. District program manager of District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU) had already visited the facility and conducted examination to ascertain whether the centre had equipped with all the required equipment.However, the Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society (TANSAC) has been delaying to give its nod, functionaries of service organisation ‘Nesakkaram’ in Mannargudi said. “There is a shortage for blood in Mannargudi hospital. If anyone comes forward to donate blood for a patient at Mannargudi hospital, he has to travel to Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur to donate blood. Then the blood would be brought to Mannargudi to perform surgery or any other treatment. This is delaying the treatment. Only a few donors are coming forward to donate blood due to the lockdown restrictions and the fear of contracting Covid-19 at a hospital,” honorary president of ‘Nesakkaram’ and general secretary of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association Mannargudi S Ranganathan stated in a memorandum sent to the chief minister, health minister and health secretary.Officials had inspected the facility. However, the required permission has not been accorded to the hospital from the TANSAC, volunteers added.When contacted, Dr Vijayakumar, chief medical officer of Mannargudi Government Hospital said that they had remained the authorities of TANSAC and they have assured to do the needful to accord the nod as soon as possible, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-blood-bank-at-mannargudi-hospital-vexes-patients/articleshow/75611417.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 8, 2020||Madurai||3k students take part in live quiz||Madurai: Amid lockdown, with all educational institutions turning to online platforms as an alternative for learning, Thiagarajar College of Preceptors in Madurai, held a national level quiz competition live via video conferencing. The quiz saw a participation of 3,154 contestants from 581 institutions across the country. The quiz was conducted on Monday in two batches between 4-6 pm, saw an inauguration via video conferencing followed with posting answers for Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs). The questions for the quiz named ‘E- Psycho Quizee’ were under the topic of education psychology. “First, we had registration done via Google Forms and created 11 WhatsApp groups to coordinate. We were surprised to see the response of more than 3000 applicants. The quiz by itself was conducted live using Zoom meet and Google Forms, from which we could get the final report quickly as well for results,” said Dr R Viswanathan, program organizing secretary. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3k-students-take-part-in-live-quiz/articleshow/75612917.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||MSMEs seek RBI help to avoid turning into sick units||Madurai: If banks don’t come forward to the rescue of MSME units at this juncture, the likelihood of the units becoming sick is more and the bank may end up in making the entire loan as an NPA, said convener of the COVID-19 redressal committee of Madurai district tiny and small scale industries association (Maditssia) K R Gnanasambandan. The former president of Maditssia made this statement based on the outcome of an analysis by the committee with more than 100 different MSMEs. Totally 90% of the units wanted additional facilities to tide over the situation,” he said. Only 70% of the units have paid full salary for March and that only 33% paid full salary for April while the rest have not for want of working capital. “Most units have term loans for up to 10 years covering the building and machinery. These loans have been deferred by three months and this will come back to us at a very high cost towards the end. We have sought a fresh loan for these three EMIs that can be repaid in 6 to 12 months after resuming operation,” Gnanasambandan said. RBI released Rs 25,000 crores to SIDBI and instructed all nationalised and scheduled banks to sanction 10% of the outstanding as additional facility without insisting on collateral at a nominal interest with a moratorium for six months and repayable in as many instalments after the moratorium. Nationalised banks extended it to MSMEs while the private sector due not. “They say they cannot act on the instructions of the RBI unless they get instructions from their respective head offices. This has to be looked into,” he said. They are also facing difficulty in transporting raw materials and finished goods and crores of rupees worth raw materials got wasted in many continuous process industries and food processing units due to the 40 plus days closure. “Due to unexpected expenses such as repair and maintenance works on our machines because of the sudden and extended lockdown, the working capital should be increased to 40%,” Maditssia president B Muruganandham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msmes-seek-rbi-help-to-avoid-turning-into-sick-units/articleshow/75612915.cms||M K Ananth
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Paid quarantine an option for ‘red zone’ returnees, says Officials||KOCHI: Will persons returning from red zones in other states need to pay for 14-day institutional quarantine? Yes, if one goes by the government order of May 6. Stating that persons coming from any red-zone district in the country shall be placed under institutional quarantine (IQ) for 14 days from the date of arrival in their home districts, the order reads, “Persons coming from the red zone districts shall be eligible for institutional quarantine facility on payment basis, subject to availability of such facility and payment by these persons.” Added to this is the fact that local panchayat and health workers have informed many of those who returned on Thursday morning and are in home quarantine that they will need to shift to IQ, once facilities are readied. However, when contacted, principal secretary and state coordinator for interstate transit Biswanath Sinha, who signed the order, said, “IQ is by state. Paid quarantine is only for those who desire it.” A senior official explained that someone who is not comfortable with government’s IQ will be given the option to choose a paid facility identified by the government. “They will be under government watch. We have identified lodges and hotels for the purpose,” the official said. Meanwhile, many persons who returned from red zones have still not been shifted to IQ. “I was contacted by panchayat and health officials who said that I may have to move to IQ once they identify a lodge or resort. Though I have adhered to strict room quarantine and avoided contact with other family members, the officials told them that they also need to be in quarantine,” said a Kozhikode resident, who arrived from Bengaluru on Monday night with a friend by car. Bengalaru is a red zone. Ministry of health and family welfare has published a list of 130 most vulnerable districts in the country and many Malayalis from these areas have registered for their return. Though the central government has mandated separate IQ facilities for those who return from red zones, it seems many districts are yet to comply. “There is no clarity yet on whether people from here will be placed in home quarantine or IQ in Kerala. Many of those who returned to Kerala by private vehicles were sent to home quarantine and have not been shifted to IQ,” said Reji Kumar, general secretary of Kerala Samajam, Bengaluru. Incidentally, the number of Malayalis returning from other states has been considerably low. “This is mainly because of the lack of transport facilities. Only people who have money and own a car can now drive home. Kerala government needs to pursue Centre to ensure train services to take many helpless and jobless Malayalis back home,” said K G Harikrishnan, president of the Federation of Gujarat Malayalee Associations.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/paid-quarantine-an-option-for-red-zone-returnees-officials/articleshow/75608616.cms||Preetu Nair
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 1 new case from Satellite||Personnel of the CISF, RAF and local police carried out a flag march in the Dilli Darwaza area on ThursdayAhmedabad: Bodakdev, Satellite and Jodhpur areas of Ahmedabad, which had seen a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, reported just one case from Neha Park Society near Billeshwar Mahadev Temple in Satellite on Thursday. However, Vejalpur and Ghatlodia continue to report fresh cases. Three cases were reported from the PG hostel on Civil Hospital campus in Asarwa area. Ahmedabad reported 263 fresh cases and 23 deaths on Thursday. Vejalpur reported eight cases, of which one case was from Bharwad Vas. Six cases were from Ghatlodia. Majority of the cases were from the eastern part of the city. Of the 263 cases reported from the city, 47 fresh cases were from Isanpur. Of these, 17 were from Vishalnagar area. In Vishalnagar, eight cases were reported from House No. 965 and another five from House No. 902. Fresh cases were reported from Gulbai Tekra —two from the nearby societies and three from other places. Bapunagar reported 14 cases and Asarwa 10. Meghaninagar was among the areas which had seen a major spike in the cases. On Thursday, the area registered 16 cases, including 10 from Kalapinagar. The western part of the city now has 575 cases — 345 in Stadium area, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna. In all, 103 and 123 cases were reported from the North and South West Zones in areas such as Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba among others. Of the 23 deaths in the city due to Covid-19, two were at SVP, 17 at Civil Hospital, two at Sola Civil Hospital and two in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-1-new-case-from-satellite/articleshow/75611442.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Eviction case: Collector, RDO appear before HC||Hyderabad: Facing allegations of forcible evictions, Siddipet district collector Venkatram Reddy and revenue divisional officer (RDO) Vijayender Reddy appeared before Telangana HC on Thursday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing pleas from farmers of Bailampur and Mamidyala in Siddipet district. The farmers’ houses and land were acquired for constructing Kondapochamma reservoir. The farmers were given time till May 1 to vacate. They complained they were thrown out prior to that and their houses were destroyed in contravention of the order of the court, which clearly said their eviction should be preceded by their rehabilitation and payment of compensation. The court had last week directed fourth additional district judge Sarita of Siddipet to record statements of oustees under the Section 164 of the CrPC. She furnished her report along with the statements. The bench posted the case to May 13, stating that it would hold a comprehensive hearing on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eviction-case-collector-rdo-appear-before-hc/articleshow/75610157.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Birds, animals too fall prey, trees wither||VISAKHAPATNAM: The styrene gas leak from LG Polymers unit has also led to the death of large numbers of animals and birds in its vicinity. As per a visible count, 22 cattle, 6 dogs and a pet cat were found dead in the area. Trees and leaves in the affected area also had a withered look. Sources in the animal husbandry department said that most of the animals killed were domestic animals. The damage done to birds and smaller species was yet to be ascertained, officials said. Sources informed that the area close to the Megharigedda reservoir is also being scouted to assess the damage done. So far, five wild birds have been rescued. B Rama Krishna, joint director of animal husbandry department in Visakhapatnam said, “We are still on the field and in the process of identifying damage done to livestock. A majority of the animals that have died are either milch animals (cows, buffaloes) or pets.” He said that the department is being assisted by animal rights’ groups. Officials said that most of the damage done to trees was in the downwind direction of the industrial unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/birds-animals-too-fall-prey-trees-wither/articleshow/75612925.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records 56 fresh cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fifty-six new coronavirus (Covid-19) cases were registered in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday taking the tally to 1,833. Krishna and Kurnool districts also recorded one death each leading to a total of 36 deaths in the state so far. While Kurnool, the Covid-19 epicentre of AP, recorded just seven cases after nearly four weeks, Visakhapatnam for the first time had seven cases in a single day. Vizianagaram district also recorded three positive cases. The patients had arrived in the district recently and were shifted to quarantine centres. Sixteen cases were recorded in Krishna district, the highest among all districts between 9 am on Wednesday and 9 am on Thursday. Meanwhile, 51 patients were discharged from various treating facilities, including 21 in Guntur, 15 in Kurnool, six in Krishna, five in Anantapur, three in Nellore, and one in Visakhapatnam. With this, AP now has 780 cured patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-56-fresh-cases/articleshow/75610168.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||MKU registrar will continue: VC||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) vice-chancellor M Krishnan on Thursday said the resignation of registrar (in-charge) N Sankar Natesan has not been accepted and he will continue to discharge his duties at least till the colleges reopen. On May 1, after a five-month stint, Natesan submitted his resignation. “I have not accepted his resignation. Amid current situation, there needs to be no confusion. There is no violation of due process. Once colleges reopen, we will re-advertise for the post of permanent registrar,” Krishnan told TOI. “I received information on Wednesday that my resignation was not accepted. The post of registrar is a key position and as per rule I have to continue to discharge my duties until someone else is appointed,” said Natesan. Natesan, who is also professor and head, department of Genetic Engineering at MKU School of Biotechnology, had previously said that he wanted to focus on scientific research. However, his sudden resignation had stirred controversy in MKU circles. The university is still yet to get a full-time permanent registrar since the post was last held by V Chinniah from 2017 to 2019. During the last MKU syndicate meeting held on January 29, it was decided to re-advertise to the post of permanent registrar as all candidates interviewed that day were found unsuitable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-registrar-will-continue-vc/articleshow/75612918.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Police team on lockdown duty attacked in Pilibhit, two cops injured||PILIBHIT: At least 23 named and around 50 unidentified people, including women, were booked for allegedly attacking a police team that had visited Bhikhampur village under Bilsanda police station in Pilibhit district late on Wednesday. Earlier, two policemen, patrolling the area on lockdown duty, had sustained injuries when they were assaulted by a mob. The villagers, on the contrary, alleged that the policemen had forcibly entered several houses and vandalized their property. The complainant – Eintgaon police outpost in-charge Manoj Kumar – said that constables Nivesh Sharma, Varun Kumar Som and Arjun were attacked by a mob of villagers in Bhikhampur when they were returning to the police station on Wednesday night after completing their duty in Tanaya and Naugma Ambar villages. Kumar said the violence started when a drunk army jawan, identified as Sunil Kumar, a resident of Bhikhampur village, accosted constable Arjun and began to abuse him. When the constables retaliated, he called his family members and villager who assaulted the cops with sticks and pelted them with stones. According to the complainant, when another police team came to their rescue, the violent mob pelted stones. Two constables sustained serious injuries in the attack. Local BJP MLA Ramsaran Verma of Bisalpur, who visited the village on Thursday morning, claimed that the police team had thrashed many villagers, intruded into their houses and damaged their property. He said that that he will “take up the matter with higher-ups if Bilsanda police did not lodge an FIR against the erring policemen”. Station house officer Naresh Kumar said that 23 named and 40- 50 unidentified men and women were booked under sections 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to kill) of IPC and sections 3,4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and section 7 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-team-on-lockdown-duty-attacked-in-pilibhit-two-cops-injured/articleshow/75608618.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||After father’s death from Covid, family not tested||Ahmedabad: Nayan Rami (30) and six of his family members were grieving the loss of their father on Wednesday when they received a call from Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) that the test report of their deceased father confirmed him as Covid-19 positive. Rami doesn’t know whether he or any of his family members are Covid-19 positive, as the AMC is yet to conduct test on them. “If the AMC immediately conducts test on us, we can have some time to prepare ourselves for the crisis. My brother has a nine-month-old baby. I have an 82-year-old grandparent. My mother has co-morbid conditions, but unfortunately the AMC doesn’t have kits,” said Rami. On May 4, Rami had rushed his father Indravadan (57), who had been bedridden for the past two years, to the civil hospital in Asarwa after he developed breathing difficulties. Indravadan was immediately shifted to a ventilator that afternoon. Sample was taken for Covid-19 as was the norm. But his condition began to deteriorate further forcing Rami to request the hospital authorities to shift him to the ICU. After three and half hours, the hospital revealed that there was a bed at the ICU but there was no assistant to transfer the patient. Rami and one of his friends wore PPE kits and volunteered. “After being shifted to the ICU, my father’s condition began to deteriorate, till a point when doctors suggested that he needed a dialysis. But my father struggled till 9 am on May 5 after which doctors pronounced him dead,” said Rami. The following day, AMC declared his father Covid-19 positive and pasted a quarantine notice outside his home. Rami said: “The only private lab the AMC recommended was not functioning for some days, according to the AMC officials, owing to a small problem.” Now Rami is extremely worried for his family members after their father’s death. “I don’t yet know how many of my family members are Covid-19 positive. Since the civil hospital authorities suggested that we cremate my father’s body following the Covid-19 protocol, we did the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-fathers-death-from-covid-family-not-tested/articleshow/75611428.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||With just a water bottle & biscuit pack, migrant workers reach city||Bhopal: With a one-litre water bottle and a biscuit packet each, migrant labourers reached Bhopal in the third Shramik train from Panvel (Maharashtra) on Thursday. They alighted at Habibganj station after completing almost 900 km journey in the scorching 40-degree heat. In all, six such Shramik trains have reached MP so far, carrying around 7,000 labourers. Another five trains have left for Madhya Pardesh from different parts of the country. The state government said that two trains from Haryana and a train each from Delhi and Kerala will leave for Madhya Pradesh later on Thursday night. Officials said that 40 trains have gone through West Central Railway in the past three days, including six that terminated at different stations in MP till the report was filed. After leaving Panvel at 11 pm on Wednesday night, the third Shramik Special train reached Habibganj station around 12.15 pm. The train with 21 coaches had 1,168 passengers from 29 districts of MP. Labourers on the train included those working in various sectors, including elders, women and children. There were 452 people from Barwani, one from Burhanpur, 192 from Dhar, 26 from Jhabua, 10 from Khandwa, 3 from Datia, 24 from Guna, 67 from Shivpuri, 6 from Morena, 9 from Sheopur, 3 from Raisen, 3 from Vidisha, 6 from Betul, 16 from Harda, 5 from Hoshangabad, 45 from Agar Malwa, 17 from Dewas, 5 from Neemuch, 4 from Ratlam, 80 from Chhatarpur, 5 from Damoh, 10 from Niwari, 1 from Panna, 1 from Balaghat, 9 from Anuppur, 78 from Shahdol, 54 from Umaria, 1 from Rewa and 36 from Sidhi district. According to the district administration, 700 migrants who belonged to Rewa, Satna and Singrauli districts came in place of 700 migrants from Barwani and Dhar due to miscommunication. Dharmendra, a labourer originally from Satna district, said that he used to work in Bandra in Mumbai. He does not want to remember the journey that he completed at Habibganj station from Panvel. “We left Panvel at 11 pm on Wednesday night. After sitting in the train, we were given only two half-half litre water bottles and a packet of biscuits. We were not allowed to eat anything all the way. When we could not tolerate hunger around 3 in the morning, we put raw rice in the water bottles and ate it after an hour,” said Dharmendra. He was not the only person aboard this train who did not have any food, the story of many other passengers was also similar. However, some passengers in the train claimed that when the train left Panvel, the passengers were given water bottles, biscuits and khichdi. However, only a few people could get this khichdi. Most of the people got only a packet of biscuit and water. Earlier, on May 2, the state government had charged train fares from 319 passengers on board the first Shramik Special train from Nashik to Misrod. On May 6, 1,030 passengers from Bibi Nagar Telangana railway station came to Habibganj station and complained about not getting food during the journey. Even, in a bus going to Chhatarpur, 25 passengers were given only 14 packets to eat. Later, migrant labourers also complained about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-just-a-water-bottle-biscuit-pack-migrant-workers-reach-city/articleshow/75611424.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Optical stores in administration’s blind spot, citizens suffer||LUCKNOW: While liquor vends are keeping state coffers brimming, optical stores that serve as lifelines for millions remain in the blind spot of the district administration. A broken glass spectacle or cracked contact lens has temporarily blurred vision of scores of citizens locked up in the lockdown for over 40 days. With most opticians located on main roads, the administration’s recent order to allow standalone stores offering technical services to operate in inner areas has only accentuated the crisis. Many residents said that a few opticians in bylanes are open for a few hours from May 4. “I visited several stores near my area for bifocal lens for presbyopia, but none had required accessories or skilled staff,” said Krishna Tewari, a retired government officer in Mahanagar. TimesViewThe demand to include optical stores in essential medical services cannot be ignored as nearly half of the city’s population is dependent on eyewear. Some states have included it in essential services, which has enabled opticians to call technicians to work. The administration is right in saying that stores in market places or main roads can lead to overcrowding. However, the y can consider the idea of permitting stores to take orders over phone and deliver products at custormers’ homes.Homemaker Varsha Verma, 30, is myopic with power of -18 in both eyes and wears contact lenses. “Lenses need to be soaked in solution for keeping them soft and supple. But since the solution is not available for several weeks, I am not able to use lenses.” Opticians said almost 60% of the population use spectacles or lenses and they receive distress calls daily. Owner of a prominent optical store in Kaiserbagh said, “We get 8-10 calls every day. Recently, a customer broke her glasses and needed immediate repair. I made a video-call to one of my skilled workers who guided me in repairing the frame. Thereafter, I delivered it to her.” ADM (east) KP Singh said, “As per government guidelines, we cannot allow any shop to open in market places as it may lead to overcrowding.” Besides, not many ophthalmologists are open either. Rajesh Singh had to run from pillar to post to find an eye specialist for his father, who suffered an eye injury. “After trying for hours, we found one, but he was initially very reluctant. He agreed to treat my father after many pleas,” he said. JD Rawat, vice-president of Indian Medical Association, said people can dial IMA helplines to get help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/optical-stores-in-admins-blind-spot-citizens-suffer/articleshow/75612259.cms||Aditi Singh
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Asha workers’ association raises demands for welfare||NASHIK: A Maharashtra state action committee for accredited social health activist (Asha) workers has asked all the Asha workers to wear a black ribbon from May 11 to May 13 to protest against the state government’s apathy towards their welfare. The action committee has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray raising the issue of Asha workers’ welfare during this time of crisis. According to Raju Desle, a member of the committee, the monthly remuneration given to Asha workers is about Rs 3,000, which is also not fixed, and it falls below the poverty line. Asha block facilitators receive just about Rs 8,000, which is also very less. Desle said, “There are nearly 72,000 Asha workers and more than 3,500 Asha block facilitators working across the state under the national health services. They are working relentlessly, but the government has ignored their welfare.” “Though the state government hires them and gives them the remuneration, they are not considered government employees,” he said. The committee has been protesting for the past the five years to get the Asha workers the status of government employees, but to no avail. “The state government had promised in September 2019 that there will be an increase of Rs 2,000 in the remuneration of Asha workers, which should be implemented immediately. We insist that they should be given Rs 10,000,” he said. The action committee said that for carrying out Covid-19 testing, they should receive Rs 300 per day as a motivational remuneration. Also, they should be provided with proper PPE kits comprising masks, sanitiser, and hand gloves. “Asha workers who are above the age of 50 with various ailments should be exempted from working during the pandemic,” Desle said. These workers should also be tested frequently as they come in contact with various people. Apart from that, they should also get insured of Rs 50 lakh under the prime minister’s poor welfare package, said Desle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/asha-workers-association-raises-demands-for-welfare/articleshow/75608642.cms||pragya jain
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University’s 100-year history to be part of course||LUCKNOW: Students of Lucknow University will learn about its history now. In its centenary year, the university has decided that students at both UG and PG level should know how a two-room school transformed into a premier residential university and completed 100 glorious years with eminent alumni. Its role in the freedom struggle and other aspects will also be in focus. “We will be the first university to teach about itself. The history of ‘University of Lucknow’ will be taught as a topic under modern Indian history, an elective paper under choice-based credit system for all students,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. He said the topic was being introduced using his special powers as vice-chancellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lus-100-year-history-to-be-part-of-course/articleshow/75612262.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court raps GHMC chief, rejects report on pavement dwellers||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday described an affidavit filed by GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar on pavement dwellers as vague and rejected his report. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy questioned Kumar on the mechanical manner in which details were filled in the affidavit without adding any explanation to them. “How many destitute, mentally challenged, labourers, disabled persons are residing on the pavements? How many of them were shifted to temporary shelters? Which are those shelters?” The bench said the commissioner’s affidavit answers none of these crucial questions. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by advocate S Nanda, who said that continued existence of people on pavements was a direct threat to social distancing and the fight against Covid-19. Kumar’s report did mention about shifting 28 persons to Saroornagar function hall, it did not have details of where they were picked up, what physical deficiency they had etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-ghmc-chief-rejects-report-on-pavement-dwellers/articleshow/75610190.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Observe Eid in a simple way, says Dargah Aala Hazrat chief||BAREILLY: The chief of Dargah Aala Hazrat Maulana Muhammad Subhan Raza Khan on Thursday appealed to members of the community to observe the upcoming festival of Eid Al-Fitr in the simple manner. Media coordinator of Dargah Aala Hazrat Nasir Qureshi said, “Khan has issued a statement and has requested the community to observe the upcoming festival of Eid Al-Fitr in a simple manner. Khan said following the lockdown, many people are struggling to arrange food for the family and some have lost jobs. In such a situation, how can we celebrate Eid in new clothes, he asked. He has requested the community members to help the poor and avoid spending money lavishly on festivities.” The cleric has asked people to maintain social distancing while observing the festival. It is expected that the festival of Eid will be observed in the last week of May. Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan, sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat, had earlier advised people to refrain from participating in iftar parties. Events, wedding parties and religious events should be postponed, he said, asking the people to offer prayers at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/observe-eid-in-a-simple-way-says-dargah-aala-hazrat-chief/articleshow/75608626.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 8, 2020||Madurai||Respite as south reports only 9 cases||Madurai: With no fresh Covid-19 cases in Madurai and Dindigul, which currently have the most Covid-19 cases among southern districts and were witnessing a spike in the last few days, the region saw some respite on Thursday. However, the total cases crossed 500 in the region. With nine new cases in the region, the total stood at 508 on Thursday. Madurai and Dindigul district have already reported 111 and 107 Covid-19 cases so far. As some good news for Madurai district, as many as six Covid-19 patients were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Thursday while no fresh case was reported. Two Covid-19 patients from Virudhunagar were also discharged along with them from GRH. Meanwhile, Theni district, which reported seven cases during the past two days, recorded three fresh cases on Thursday. The three persons, two men and a woman, who tested Covid-19 positive were from Thevaram area and all had previous travel history to other districts. District collector M Pallavi Baldev said that all primary and secondary contacts of the patients were being identified and will be tested. Currently, there 11 active Covid-19 cases in the district while the total cases are at 54. The collector also further noted that screening and testing for Covid-19 at border checkposts have been intensified. On Thursday alone, as many as 599 swab samples, of which 330 were from border checkposts, were collected and sent for testing in the district. An 80-year-old man from Serakulam in Tuticorin district tested positive for Covid-19. The man was returning from Koyambedu market in Chennai on May 4 and was caught on May 5 at Thenthiruperai in Tuticorin. He was immediately taken to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in 108 Ambulance and his swab samples were sent for Covid-19 testing, for which the results returned positive on Thursday. In Tirunelveli district, three persons, all men including an 83-year-old, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Two of them had travel history to Chennai, while the other was from Melapalayam, a containment zone in the district. Ramanathapuram district saw two cases on Thursday of which one was a 40-year-old man who was working as a sanitary worker in Paramakudi, a containment zone. Another 70-year-old woman also tested Covid-19 positive in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/respite-as-south-reports-only-9-cases/articleshow/75612921.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Traders lift Rs 140 crore liquor stock||HYDERABAD: Following a tremendous response to liquor sales on first day, liquor shop owners lifted Rs 140 crore worth stocks from 19 government depots on Thursday. On Wednesday, liquor sales zoomed to a record Rs 75 crore. Sources said sales on second day were more or less the same as that on the first day. According to official sources, social distancing was maintained at several shops as bumper sales continued for second day of reopening liquor shops. Except in few containment zones and 30 shops whose licences were seized, all other shops saw good sales of various brands. The sources said the stock lifted by the shop owners would last for next two to three days. The state government, which lost out on excise revenue because of Covid-19 pandemic and extended lockdown, hopes to net Rs 1,800 crore a month. “Despite the increase in liquor prices by 16%, we hope to see a good growth rate in excise revenue,” officials said. Meanwhile, the government also earned Rs 1.82 crore through vehicle registrations done by the transport department on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traders-lift-rs-140-crore-liquor-stock/articleshow/75610211.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Containment zones up from 33 to 74 in 8 days||NASHIK: The number of containment zones in Malegaon has more than doubled in just eight days — from 33 containment zones on April 28 to 74 on Wednesday — making the fight against the Covid-19 more challenging for the administration. So far, as many as 430 people from the textile town have tested positive for the coronavirus. Of them, 14 have succumbed, while 20 patients have recovered. Talking about the current situation, Malegaon Municipal Corporation’s (MMC) new commissioner Deepak Kasar said, “Most of the containment zones are spread in a radius of around 2.5 sqkm in Malegaon with a population of over 2 lakh. Our focus is on preventing the spread of the infection in these containment zones." Kasar took over as the new MMC chief few days ago as the state government was unhappy with how the things were being handled by his predecessor. The government is also of the view that the civic body plays an important role in preventing the spread of the virus. Within few days of taking charge Kasar cracked whip on some outsourced staff of the MMC by lodging police cases against them for not reporting to work. On Thursday, Kasar briefed the elected MMC representatives, including mayor Tahira Sheikh and deputy mayor Nilesh Aher, about various steps being taken by the civic body to contain the spread of Covid-19. “He has sought our help in identifying a big building in eastern part of the city where a Covid-19 hospital could be established,” Aher said. According to the deputy mayor, several doctors and nurses from other talukas of the district like Igatpuri, Kalwan and others have been deployed in Malegaon to treat Covid-19 patients in Malegaon. “Kasar told us that he is ensuring that no employee of MMC shirks work at this critical juncture and he has sought the help of elected representatives from all parties,” said Aher, adding that the elected representatives have assured him of their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/containment-zones-up-from-33-to-74-in-8-days/articleshow/75608662.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: MP’s situation improving, Ujjain needs special attention, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday asked for special attention to contain coronavirus deaths in Ujjain and said services of specialist doctors be provided to Covid-19 patients there. Reviewing the soronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing, chief minister said that the active coronavirus cases in the state are in decline, patients going back home after cure have outnumbered the new patients detected, but situation in Ujjain must be paid extra attention. He said, help of specialist doctors should be sought for treatment of patients there. In addition to RD Gardi hospital, trauma centre in the city would soon start working as a Covid hospital. Besides, 100 beds for coronavirus patients from Ujjain should be reserved at Bhandari hospital in Indore. The Ujjain collector told that intensive survey is being conducted in the district and efforts to control situation through more testing and better treatment is being made. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains asked officials to focus on coronavirus situation in Badnagar. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman said that on Thursday 114 new coronavirus cases were detected in the state while 132 infected persons went back home after cure. He said, there are 1,828 active Covid patients in the state as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-mps-situation-improving-ujjain-needs-spl-attention/articleshow/75611453.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana refuses to roll back PG medical and dental fee, web options end||HYDERABAD: The dreams of hundreds of aspirants were shattered after the Telangana government failed to roll back the fee hike for post-graduate medical and dental courses even as web-options for first phase of counselling concluded on Thursday. The government had doubled the fees of PG medical courses in private colleges to Rs 7 lakh per annum from Rs 3.8 lakh a year. The April 14 GO on fee fixation was made public on Monday, two days before the web counselling for the 2020-2023 period began for over 600 seats across the state. The government’s decision did not go down well with many aspirants who argued that it will cause immense burden. “We are helpless as the government has failed to hear our plea. We are still following our ethics and not protesting,” said A Nikita, who was planning to pursue an MD in obstetrics and gynaecology. The Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) demanded the government to revoke the GO. AICC secretary C Vamshi Chand Reddy also wrote a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao urging him to withdraw the GO on fee hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-refuses-to-roll-back-pg-med-dental-fee-web-options-end/articleshow/75610228.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Strong winds uproot 15 trees in Nehru zoo park||Hyderabad: As many as 15 trees were uprooted as a result of gale in Nehru Zoological Park in the city. No casualties were reported. The branches of several trees in the zoo’s food park were also broken. “The uprooted trees have been removed and the enclosures checked for damages. All animals in the park are safe,” said N Kshitija, zoo curator. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strong-winds-uproot-15-trees-in-nehru-zoo-park/articleshow/75610212.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amit Shah now grandpa to two||Ahmedabad: There was good news again in the houseold of Union home minister and Gandhinagar MP Amit Shah, after his daughter-in-law delivered a baby girl on Thursday afternoon at KD Hospital at Vaishnodevi Circle on SG Road. This is second child of Shah’s son Jay and daughter-in-law Rishita. The couple are already parents to to a baby girl named Rudri. She was born in April 2017. Shah is very fond of his granddaughter who had made appearances at his political rallies during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well. Three years later, the couple has been blessed with another daughter. Top sources said Rishita developed labour pains on Thursday and delivered the baby around 2pm at KD Hospital. Both mother and daughter are said to be doing fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amit-shah-now-grandpa-to-two/articleshow/75611450.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||T releases Rs 1,200 cr towards loan waiver||Hyderabad: The Telangana finance department released Rs 1,200 crore on Thursday towards loan waiver of all farmers who had taken loans of Rs 25,000 or less. Instead of payment through cheques, the government will deposit money into the accounts of around 5.83 lakh farmers in order to maintain social distancing. The department also released Rs 7,000 crore towards Rythu Bandhu payment to farmers. At a review meeting with officials of finance department on Thursday, finance minister T Harish Rao and agriculture minister Niranjan Reddy said that the Rythu Bandhu amount will be paid for 1.40 crore acres of land, benefitting 51 lakh farmers, with each farmer getting Rs 5,000 per acre of land. The government had directed the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to prepare a list of agriculture gold loans, and the Aadhaar database of farmers will be used to check if multiple loans were taken by farmers. The scheme allows for waiver of only one loan per family. After the verification is done, the amount will be distributed either on Thursday or later. An estimated 48 lakh farmers are eligible for the loan waiver scheme. Loans of up to 1 lakh will be issued to the farmers. Instead of payment through cheques, the government will deposit money into the accounts of around 5.83 lakh farmers in order to maintain social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-releases-rs-1200-cr-towards-loan-waiver/articleshow/75610239.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 8, 2020||Chennai||Prudent use of scarce test kits is need of the hour||Chennai: Tamil Nadu has been among the states conducting the most number of tests in the country. Between April 28 and May 6, TN carried out the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for 92,133 people, of which 2,892 were detected positive (average 3.1%). In other words, 31 positive cases were detected for every 969 suspected individuals tested. Though testing as many as possible is desirable to decide the strategy to contain transmission of Covid-19, but for a country like India with a large population and no indigenous marketable testing kits, the question now is how long and how many tests can be carried out. RT-PCR tests require high-end technical resources and involve high costs and the kits are imported at present. Most of the people tested were contacts and around 90% of those tested positive were found to be asymptomatic. It is not known how many of the asymptomatic individuals go on to develop the disease. On May 3, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, the leading national public health institute of the US, summarised in its findings that the viral burden measured in upper respiratory specimens declines in nine days after the onset of the illness. The likelihood of the virus becoming active inside the body is almost zero by the tenth day. In this context, such a decline of viral activity may also take place in asymptomatic individuals. Although there is no evidence on record, some of these asymptomatic individuals may become virus free even before developing symptoms or may develop symptoms in the due course. This pushes the case of testing only those with Covid-19 symptoms of fever, dry cough and breathlessness. In certain situations, RT-PCR positive is not an indicator of an active virus. There have been reports of recovered patients testing RT-PCR positive again. But attempts on viral isolation showed that these were false positives. Following recovery from the illness, many patients no longer have detectable viral ribonucleic acid (RNA) in upper respiratory specimens. Among those who continue to have detectable RNA when tested by the RT-PCR within three days of recovery do not have an active virus in the body but only dead viral genetic material remain. Hence, CDC recommends those recovering from COVID-19 illness should be isolated for at least 10 days after onset of the illness and at least 3 days (72 hours) after recovery. Covid testing is done to mainly identify the source and contain the disease and by isolating the individual and treating them if required. To ensure efficient use of the RT-PCR kits, instead of testing the huge proportion of symptom-free contacts, a strategy to test all those who develop symptoms, besides those in clusters could be adopted. If found positive, the individual can be isolated, treated and released from isolation. This will ensure the prudent use of RT-PCR test kits, which is scarce and precious at the moment.(The writer is a former director of BCG Vaccine Laboratory, Chennai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/prudent-use-of-scarce-test-kits-is-need-of-the-hour/articleshow/75613721.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 10-month-old boy dies in car-truck collision||HYDERABAD: A 10-month-old boy, Yuvraj, died and seven of his kin sustained injuries after a DCM truck rammed into their car at Chivvemula in Suryapet. The family was heading to Khammam from Hyderabad for a funeral. “There was no road divider where the mishap took place. The injured were shifted to a hospital and are out of danger,’’ Chivvemula police said. The DCM driver abandoned his vehicle and fled from the spot. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-mnth-old-boy-dies-in-car-truck-collision/articleshow/75610245.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Drunk driving claims lives of two persons||HYDERABAD: Two persons died and four of their friends were injured in a road accident on Wednesday evening at Shankarpalli. The person driving the car, Satish, was allegedly in a drunken state and lost control over the car, following which it landed in an agricultural field. The deceased were identified as software engineer Niranjan (32) and his friend Kiran. “The mishap occurred when the friends were out on a long drive after buying liquor,” Shankarpalli inspector Gopinath Gopu said. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driving-claims-lives-of-2-persons/articleshow/75610272.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||Complete hiring of 69,000 teachers in a week: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: A day after the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court ruled in the government’s favour, allowing recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers, CM Yogi Adityanath directed officials of the basic education department to complete the entire process of appointment teachers at government schools within the next seven days. In a meeting with officials on Thursday, the CM directed officials to immediately start the recruitment process. However, sources said that while work may start at the earliest, it would take at least a month for the entire process to be completed. “The final answer key, stuck after students went to court, can be issued within this week. The Examination Regulatory Authority has already written to the government, seeking clearance for issuing the key after which the results will be declared. This can be done within a week,” said an official in the basic education department. Sources also said that the department would be submitting a caveat in the high court, ensuring that in case someone challenges this order, no directions will be issued without hearing out the basic education department. The matter had been pending in court after some students challenged the decision of the government to set a qualifying cut-off of 60-65% for the recruitment exam a day after it was held on January 7, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/complete-hiring-of-69k-teachers-in-a-week-yogi/articleshow/75612265.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NHRC says leak is violation of human rights, issues notices to AP govt and Centre||HYDERABAD: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of 11 deaths due to styrene leakage in Visakhapatnam and issued notices to the AP government and the Centre. It gave them four weeks to file reports. The commission observed that this was a serious violation of human rights. It said though prima facie there were no reports of human error or negligence, “right to life of the victims has been grossly violated”. It further said, “At a time when the human lives across the country are at stake due to spread of Covid-19 pandemic and everyone is forced to stay indoors, the gruesome tragedy has come as bolt from the blue for the people.” While issuing notices to the chief secretary, government of Andhra Pradesh, NHRC sought a detailed report on the tragedy, including on rescue operations, treatment provided to the affected people and relief and rehabilitation provided by the state authorities to the kin of the deceased. A notice has also been issued to the state DGP to inform within four weeks about registration of FIRs in the matter and status of the investigation being conducted. The commission asked the Union ministry of corporate affairs to examine whether the norms laid down under relevant provisions of the law are being implemented in the LG Polymers unit in Vizag and submit a report to the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nhrc-says-leak-is-violation-of-human-rights-issues-notices-to-ap-centre/articleshow/75611507.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to charge Rs 44 per km from stranded people||NASHIK: Even after minister of relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar announced that the government will use the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses to ferry people stranded in different parts of the state free of cost, the state transport utility came out with a circular that it will be charging the passengers around Rs 44 per km. A large number of people, including students, are stuck in different parts of the state because of the lockdown. “The state government has decided to ferry all these stranded people to their respective homes using the 10,000 MSRTC buses for free. For this, Rs 20 crore will be borne by my ministry,” Wadettiwar had said on Wednesday. An MSRTC official said they will be providing buses only for group bookings and only 22 people will be allowed in one vehicle. “The state transport utility will provide buses only to people who have health certificates stating that they are healthy to travel from competent authorities,” he said. Explaining further, he said travelling to Pune would cost Rs 17,600 for a group of 22 people considering that the distance between Nashik and Pune is around 200-km. “The cost of running the bus (round trip) would mean travelling 400 km at the rate of Rs 44 per km. The passengers will have to collectively deposit the money with the MSRTC,” he said, adding that even if the number of travellers is less than 22, they will have to pay the same amount. Most migrants stranded in the city are from Surgana and Marathdwada’s Beed and Aurangabad districts. “The lockdown has been extended, but there is a window of opportunity for those stranded to go back to their native homes. All these people have started putting in requests,” the official said. The officer also pointed out that the demands were mostly coming from Nashik city, but as it falls in the red zone category, no person from here will be allowed to travel. “Only people from orange zone will be allowed to travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-charge-rs-44-per-km-from-stranded-people/articleshow/75608670.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Redevelopment work begins at Habibganj station with 10% labour||Bhopal: The redevelopment work at Habibganj station started again on Thursday after a gap of nearly two months. The work was nearing completion when the lockdown was announced on March 25. Now, only 7 per cent work is left, but the absence of labour remains a major hurdle. Currently, the work has commenced with only 50-55 labourers. “In normal situation, we would deploy around 450 labourers per day. But now we have barely 10 per cent labour available,” said Abu Asif project manager, Bansal Pathways - the company that is taking care of the redevelopment work.Asif added that even the technical team is not available at the moment. “Our major work is of air concourse. As the technical team left when lockdown was implemented, it has become difficult to speed up the work. Let’s see when we get the entire staff,” said Asif and added, “Escalators that were supposed to reach Bhopal from China in the first week of January, are yet to come. We just have to complete the finishing work, air concourse and few other jobs.”Habibganj is the first railway station in the country to be redeveloped through public-private partnership mode under the station redevelopment programme of Indian Railways. IRSDC, a joint venture of IRCON and RLDA, is the nodal agency for undertaking development works at railway stations under the Ministry of Railways. The revenue realized from real estate development and commercial facilities at the station is being utilized for redevelopment and maintenance of the station.Revamp of Habibganj station into a world-class station was launched in July 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs 450 crore. However, the work started only in January 2017 with an ambitious deadline to complete it in three years. The project is divided into two parts: Rs 100 crore was earmarked for facelift of the station while the remaining Rs 350 crore was for commercial facilities. While the deadline for the facelift was set as March 31, 2020, deadline for construction of commercial facilities is 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/redevelopment-work-begins-at-habibganj-station-with-10-labour/articleshow/75611468.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP Jal Nigam offers one-day pay to UP Covid care||LUCKNOW: Despite having a backlog of two months’ salary, employee of UP Jal Nigam (UPJN) contributed their one-day salary towards Covid fund created by the state government to fight new coronavirus pandemic. Managing director of UPJN Vikas Gothalwal said that salaries and pension for February were cleared in May. The employee contributed to the Covid fund by their own will, he added. UPJN has around 10,500 employee and 12,000 retired officials. The UPJN MD said that the organisation is working to increase its income and has started working on projects as per the lockdown guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jal-nigam-offers-one-day-pay-to-up-covid-care/articleshow/75612268.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk driving claims lives of 2 persons||Hyderabad: Two persons died and four of their friends were injured in a road accident on Wednesday evening at Shankarpalli. The person driving the car, Satish, was allegedly in a drunken state and lost control over the car, following which it landed in an agricultural field. The deceased were identified as software engineer Niranjan (32) and his friend Kiran. “The mishap occurred when the friends were out on a long drive after buying liquor,” Shankarpalli inspector Gopinath Gopu said. A case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driving-claims-lives-of-2-persons/articleshow/75610271.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop taking photos of accident site run over||Hyderabad: A constable (48) attached to Choutuppal police station died after being run over by a van while taking pictures of an accident site on NH-65. When a speeding van transporting mangoes from AP to Hyderabad rammed into a truck from behind near Borrelagudem, the constable, Jagannadham, was hit by the van. The patrol mobile staff shifted the truck driver and the constable to a hospital, where the constable succumbed to injuries. Police arrested the van driver. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-taking-photos-of-accident-site-run-over/articleshow/75610286.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court moved for proper probe into newborn’s killing by dog||AHMEDABAD: A lawyer moved the Gujarat high court against the closure of a case in which a dog killed a newborn taken from a Godhra nursing home in April. He complained that police did not follow the investigation procedure laid down for a death caused by an animal. An advocate, Kirtikumar Bhatt, on Thursday filed a petition and taking exception to the closure report filed by the Panchmahal police in an FIR lodged on April 5 with regard to the death of an infant at a nursing home in Godhra. On April 1, Tara Baria gave birth to twins, a boy and a girl. After midnight, a dog dragged away the boy and disappeared. The body of the newborn was never recovered. CCTV footage showed the child being taken away by the dog. Four days later, an FIR was registered and police reportedly filed a closure report terming the incident an accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-moved-for-proper-probe-into-newborns-killing-by-dog/articleshow/75611524.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Brother of murder accused killed||MYSURU: Nazarbad police suspect a revenge murder after two friends of a man, stabbed to death on Monday, killed the brother of an accused. Thursday’s victim was stabbed multiple times before being hit in the head with a boulder. The incident is believed to be in retaliation for the murder of Sathish, 22. Kiran and Madhu, the accused in Sathish’s murder, had partied with the victim before stabbing him to death late on Monday. The murder was reportedly over a love matter. Kiran and Madhu were subsequently arrested for the murder. On Thursday, Sathish’s friends, now identified as Mahendra and Irfan, summoned Kiran’s brother Abhishek to discuss the matter. Abhishek reached St Anthony’s Church, but was taken by Mahendra and Irfan to a secluded place where he was killed. The duo then fled the spot. Police are on their lookout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/brother-of-murder-accused-killed/articleshow/75612941.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman ends life over dowry harassment||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old woman committed suicide over dowry harassment by jumping off the fifth floor of her apartment in Gachibowli. The victim, Shesha Santosha Kumari, who was a resident of Subbayya Orchid apartment in Kondapur, died on the spot. Police said Kumari’s in-laws harassed her for dowry. Police found a suicide note in which Kumari alleged the same. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-ends-life-over-dowry-harassment/articleshow/75610303.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Trichy||57 more test +ve in Perambalur, Ariyalur||Trichy: The central region of the state reported 68 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday with Ariyalur and Perambalur being the major contributors to the tally. As many as 57 new cases were reported from these two districts on Thursday. In Ariyalur, 24 people tested positive for Covid-19, of which 14 have returned from Koyambedu market. A pregnant woman from Kancheepuram also tested positive. Nine contacts of Koyambedu returnees also tested Covid-19 positive. The positive cases were from Nagalkuzhi, Kalumangalam, Kolaiyanur and T Palur hamlets. The total Covid-19 positive cases in Ariyalur district rose to 246 on Thursday, of which 154 people were put under home quarantine, while nine were admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and 60 to government hospital in Ariyalur. As many as 415 people still await test results in Ariyalur district. In Perambalur, 33 Koyambedu returnees tested positive for Covid-19 were admitted to the government hospital in Perambalur. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive patients in the district as on Thursday stood at 73. In Trichy, five men tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. All of them had links with the Koyambedu cluster. While three of them tested positive in Trichy after their return from Koyambedu, one person was diagnosed with the disease in Salem and another one in Karur. Since the two were the residents of Musiri in Trichy, they were shifted to MGMGH in Trichy on Thursday. All the five new cases were reported from the rural parts of the district. A 23-year-old woman, who tested positive on Wednesday, is the only active case in Trichy city. In Karur, two people -- a 54-year-old man and a 25-year-old man, both from Pallapatti tested positive. They have returned from Maharashtra. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Karur district went up to 47 out of which five are undergoing treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital as the remaining patients have been discharged. Two people aged 32 years tested positive for Covid-19 in Pudukottai district, taking the total positive cases in the district to five. The duo was part of a six-member team who has returned from Chennai in a truck. They were intercepted on the district border on May 4 on Monday, and were isolated at a school. Four others tested negative. Thanjavur district has two more positive cases who have returned from Chennai. A 27-year-old patient from Papanasam and a 35-year-old-man from Ayyampettai took the tally to 65. A total of 6,810 blood samples have been tested so far and 6,329 of them turned negative. The results of 437 samples were awaited. On Thursday, a woman from Neivasal village near Orathanadu in the district was discharged from Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. There was no new case in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/57-more-test-ve-in-perambalur-ariyalur/articleshow/75611488.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 3-month-old Jabalpur baby dies of Covid-19, may be country’s youngest||JABALPUR: A three-month-old infant, infected with coronavirus, died in Jabalpur on Tuesday, making her perhaps the youngest victim in the country. Her test report came a day after her death. No one else in her family is a Covid-19 patient, but she lived in a hotspot. Her family members were quarantined immediately after her report came on Wednesday night. The administration conducted the child’s last rites, said Jabalpur chief medical and health officer, Dr Manish Mishra. The newborn was unconscious when admitted to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College and Hospital on May 4. She had high fever and exhibited symptoms of viral encephalitis, said sources. She died on May 5 and her samples were sent for Covid-19 test. “The infant was a resident of Chandni Chowk, where several people have been found Covid-positive. She has two elder sisters, aged 7 and 10,” said the CMHO. None of them shows any symptoms of coronavirus infection but they are in quarantine and will be taken into hospital isolation on Friday. A pregnant woman, who had died the same day as the infant, also turned out to be infected with Covid-19. No one in the baby’s family is Covid patientShe was at the end of her first trimester when admitted to the same hospital on May 5 with respiratory distress. She died within a few hours of admission, said sources. Her test report came positive on Thursday. Jabalpur, where the state’s first Covid-19 case was detected in March, seemed to have escaped the worst, until it was hit by an avalanche of cases towards end-April. At least 30 Covid patients are from Chandni Chowk locality, which is a containment zone. One of the first to test positive here was an elderly woman, who died before his repot came back from the lab. Jabalpur’s death toll from Covid-19 now stands at four, and its corona count is 115.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-month-baby-dies-of-covid-19-may-be-countrys-youngest/articleshow/75611489.cms||Amarjeet Singh
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Shramik trains leave for UP & MP with migrants||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: More migrant workers and stranded pilgrims took Shramik special trains to return to their home states. As many as 1,125 people from Ahmednagar and 1,306 from Bhusawal left for destinations in Uttar Pradesh. From the Aurangabad railway station, 1,223 people, left for Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh at 8.30 pm. Moreover, 130 pilgrims from Punjab, who had been stranded in the gurdwara at Manmad, also left by special buses. In Ahmednagar, the workers and pilgrims were stranded in Shirdi and other places. On Thursday, they boarded the end-to-end Ahmednagar-Lucknow Shramik Express. Those stranded in and around Jalgaon took the train from Bhusawal late on Wednesday evening. The district administration had arranged for the 24-coach rake. Hand sanitisers were placed inside. Every coach had only 54 passengers. “With the help of Chhagan Bhujbal, we are able to leave for our homes via Madhya Pradesh. All of us will be quarantined when we reach home,” Ranjit Singh, one of the pilgrims stranded in Manmad, said. In Aurangabad, a special Shramik special train, carrying around 1,223 people, left for Bhopal. The district administration has planned another run of such a train to Jabalpur on Friday. The workers, from rural and urban parts of Aurangabad district, as well as other places in Marathwada such as Nanded, Osmanabad, Jalna and Beed started arriving at the railway station on Thursday morning. Workers were divided into district-wise groups for health screening. Appasaheb Shinde, the regional nodal officer for relief camps in Aurangabad, said, “We carried out thermal screenings and other health checks. Each passenger was provided with a face-mask, sanitiser and water bottle among other essentials. Most of the workers boarding the Bhopal-bound train hail from Madhya Pradesh.” Authorities added the special train will run non-stop till Bhopal. According to officials, workers from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand among other states are still stranded in Marathwada. “We have arranged for another Shramik special train on Friday to facilitate their return. If required, a call for another special train will be taken shortly,” A sort of secrecy was maintained by government and railway authorities with regards to the running of the Shramik special train. South Central Railway (SCR), which caters to parts of Marathwada, including Aurangabad, did not make any formal announcement. “The Shramik trains are run only for identified migrants. The respective district administration is expected to facilitate boarding of passengers on these trains by following social distancing and other norms,” SCR divisional mananger said. As per official data, 16,682 migrants had taken shelter in relief camps set up in eight districts of Marathwada. Labour leader Ram Baheti said major chunk of these migrants hail from north Indian states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shramik-trains-leave-for-up-mp-with-migrants/articleshow/75608717.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 8, 2020||Chennai||‘Rising Covid-19 numbers show good testing, tracing of contacts’||The mounting number of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu was expected, but the recent spike is a cause for concern as it exposes the gap in implementation of physical distancing norms. The state has to use its strong public health network to track contacts of those tested positive, ramp up testing and isolate infected people, including those asymptomatic, to flatten the curve, say Dr Prahdeep Kaur and Dr P Manickam, deputy directors at ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. In an interview with TOI, the experts say Covid-19 is the most challenging pandemic after the Spanish flu in the early 1900s. They stress on the need for unprecedented action from governments and the community with rapid escalation of resources. Why are the cases in Tamil Nadu going up suddenly? Will we be seeing more numbers in the next few days?After the Indian Council of Medical Research expanded testing to include those with influenza-like illness and all contacts of people testing positive, the number of samples tested in the state steadily increased. Now, the state tests more than 10,000 samples a day. The total number of samples TN has tested is the second highest in the country. Due to extensive testing, new clusters are being identified which has led to increase in the number of cases. This is what happens in a pandemic. The numbers will rise, sometimes rapidly. There will also be waves where there is a rise and fall of cases. Are the rising numbers a cause for concern? Does it mean we are in stage 3 or 4 of ?No. On the contrary, rising numbers reflect good testing and contact tracing strategies. It tells us we are on the right path. At one point, when we are at the peak, the numbers will decline even as we continue to aggressively test people. No one must not stop or reduce testing or relax isolation and social distancing norms. These are important to break the chain. As epidemiologists, we can say testing enables us to map the spread of infection and thereby provides an opportunity for containment. It will tell us where to look for during a crisis. What should be avoided? There is a need for stricter implementation of physical distancing measures during the lockdown period. We saw crowding at market places, as a result we have cluster of cases from the market areas now. In which area, has the state been doing better?TN has done well in ramping up testing capacities. The state has a large network of labs, both private and government spread across the state. The district officials don’t wait for samples to be transported from one district to another. The state also has a wider contact tracing network that has helped us track, test and isolate people. This has to be expanded further to cope with the rising number of cases. Since you are saying cases are likely to increase, so when the viral load increases will it delay recovery or push mortality rates?There is no published evidence on the relationship of viral load and mortality due to Covid-19. This virus is new and is still under study. As of now we don’t see this as a problem. India seems to record a Covid strain where infected people are asymptomatic, with fewer people with distress conditions. Is that good or bad?When there are asymptomatic cases diagnosis may be tough. TN has been able to track them through its wide network of contact tracing. There is no scientific evidence to say if this is good or bad. As of now, fatality due to Covid-19 has been significantly low in Tamil Nadu. We have been under lock down for nearly two months now? When do you think it should be lifted? Will TN be able to flatten the curve if relaxations are allowed?Flattening the curve will depend on a combination of factors such as implementation of surveillance, testing, contact tracing and isolation/quarantine and strict adherence to physical distancing by the people. It is not just the job of the government. There are multiple stakeholders. Government has to look for a staggered exit handholding all its stakeholders. Going back to normal will take a long time, but it is not impossible. As for when and how relaxations should be done depends on the status of each district. Districts have to monitor the situation and take a decision accordingly. This means there could be multiple lockdowns, brief or long, when there is an outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rising-numbers-show-good-testing-tracing-of-contacts/articleshow/75613723.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Demand for seats in govt arts colleges may go up due to economic impact of lockdown||Trichy: The economic impact of Covid-19 lockdown is expected to last long, especially on the lower income groups, and this may reflect in admissions to higher educational institutions.The demand for seats in government arts colleges are expected to increase this year as families may not be able to afford seats in private colleges after being hit economically by Covid-19 lockdown. N Rajan, 45, a construction labourer from Kumbakonam, wanted his son to be admitted in a popular government-aided college in Trichy this year. But, he has now decided to get him admitted to a government arts college in Kumbakonam.He said that he may not be able to afford hostel expense and fee of the self-financing course that his son wants to pursue. “While majority people have been economically affected due to Covid-19 lockdown, we can certainly expect an increase in demand for seats in government arts colleges,” said G Ramesh, state vice president of Tamil Nadu government college teachers association (TNGCTA).A student, who pays Rs 1,000 as fee in government colleges, takes back Rs 3,000 in the form of scholarship every year, said principal of a government arts college in Trichy. There are plans to start 10 new government arts colleges in the state in coming months and there will be increase of 20% seats in existing colleges, which will help in meeting the increasing demand, said the principal.However, former vice chancellor of a state-run university said that off late, priority is given to quality of education and parents may not hesitate to go an extra mile spending for quality education of their wards.“There is no doubt that the government colleges have quality faculty members, who are well paid. If only the teachers were a little more committed, government colleges would be far ahead of private colleges," said the former VC.Many private arts and science colleges have been efficiently handling the lockdown by engaging students through online classes. However, same is not the case with government colleges, added the former VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-seats-in-govt-arts-colleges-may-go-up-due-to-economic-impact-of-lockdown/articleshow/75611498.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||22 new cases take Aurangabad’s tally to 378; 95-year-old woman dies at civil hospital||AURANGABAD: A total of 22 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Aurangabad on Thursday taking the districts tally to 378. On Wednesday, the district had reported 35 positive Covid-19 cases and the total had reached 356. Civic health officer Nita Padalkar said that the patients who tested positive on Thursday were mostly contacts of young people. “Those who tested positive on Thursday included 5 people from the railway station area, 3 from Jai Bhim Nagar, 2 from Qile Ark, 9 from Pundalik Nagar and 3 from Katkat Gate,” Padalkar said. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that one more person has tested positive in a test conducted at a private laboratory. “The case will be confirmed after report from GMCH,” he said. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has collected as many as 336 throat swab samples from suspected patients in Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Beghumpura and Kabir Nagar. “The collection of throat swab samples has been increased because more testing will be us break the chain of virus transmission. So far, we have collected 5,357 throat swabs and had positive cases in 33 localities of the city,” Padalkar said. In these 33 localities, the team of civic health workers have screened as many as 54,693 people living in 11,531 houses. Meanwhile, there were reports of resistance from residents in several localities against screening and swab collection carried out by the AMC. Civic officials said that people are fearing that they will be taken to quarantine facilities which is not the case. "We have facilitated door-step swab collection and suspected cases are being placed in home quarantine until their report tests positive," municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said. Meanwhile, Kulkarni said the civil hospital recorded its first Covid-19 death when a 95-year-old woman, a resident of Asefiya Colony, died while undergoing treatment. She was being treated for the past 12 days,” he said. With this, the total number of deaths in the district has reached to 12. Of the total 378 cases, 29 people have recovered and been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/22-new-cases-take-dists-tally-to-378-95-yr-old-woman-dies-at-civil-hosp/articleshow/75608735.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM gives point-by-point rebuttal of LoP charges||LUCKNOW: Insisting that the entire government machinery involved in the war against coronavirus was putting its best foot forward to help people of the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday urged the leader of opposition in the assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary not to dampen the morale of covid warriors by levelling baseless charges. In a seven-page letter to Chaudhary, the CM provided details of the state’s fight against the virus, backed with statistics. The letter was in response to a communique by Chaudhary on May 4, pointing out anomalies in government efforts towards reaching out to people. In his letter, the CM explained the population of UP was more than that of France, UK, Italy and Spain put together and though these European nations were equipped with best medical facilities, more than 8 lakh people were infected and over 1 lakh had died. “But due to prompt action of PM Modi and intervention of UP government that the state has 2,969 cases of coronavirus. And while 1,080 infected people were cured, 58 died,” he said. Responding to Chaudhary’s allegations on migrants walking home from other states, CM stated 17,000 migrants have been brought back on 15 trains and the government was preparing to bring home 30,000 migrants every day. “We have asked governments of sender states to stop them till we make arrangements to transport them to UP,” said the CM. On the issue of inadequate testing, the chief minister said, in February not a single lab was in place to test for coronavirus, but as on date, 25 labs were testing 5,000 samples every day across the state and at least one lakh RTPCR tests have been performed. In rural areas, survey and surveillance has been increased manifold with help of village chowkidars and Asha workers. “As of now 2.5 crore people are covered under survey and surveillance,” the letter states. Giving details of arrangements to accommodate suspected cases of coronavirus, the CM said, 42,000 isolation b0eds, 21,500 quarantine beds and 1,209 ventilator beds are in place and 125 level-1, 60 Level-2 and 19 Level-3 hospitals have been set up to accommodate patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-gives-point-by-point-rebuttal-of-lop-charges/articleshow/75612272.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces major reforms to boost MSMEs||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced major reforms to boost industrial activity in the state, hit by the Covid-19 lockdown, and increase job opportunities. The CM announced big concessions in laws governing the industrial sector, maintaining that interests of workers were not compromised. Addressing media on Facebook Live, Chouhan said the Coronavirus crisis has adversely impacted the global economy and long-drawn lockdown has slowed economic activities. “We will have to convert this challenge into an opportunity,” he said. The state government has made major amendments to labour laws to make them simpler, transparent, and industry-friendly, Chouhan said. Chouhan said that it will facilitate establishment of new industries and increase job opportunities while safeguarding interests of workers. All the provisions of Industrial Disputes’ Act, except for section 25N (that concerns retrenchment) have been relaxed, he said. Now industry owners will be able to select workers as per their convenience. In industries, where less than 100 workers are employed, exemptions have been given from MP Industrial Employment (permanent order) Act. Now, most MSMEs will be able to hire workers as per their requirements. So far, this Act was applicable to establishments with more than 50 workers, now it has been extended to establishments with more than 100 workers. This will give relief to small industries, he said. The state government has proposed to the Union government to consider amendments under the Factory Act, and make it mandatory for registering units run by power with minimum 50 workers instead of 10. Similarly, proposal to do away the capping of 20 workers for registration of factories that didn’t use power has also been send to the GOI. These would give small industries freedom from registrations under the Factory Act, Chouhan said. Under Contract Labour Act, contractors had to register themselves for employing 20 workers so far. Now they will be required to register only if they employ 50 workers or more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-announces-major-reforms-to-boost-msmes/articleshow/75611503.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||District collector to look after Malegaon, says Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, alarmed by the rising number of cases in Malegaon, on Thursday directed collector Suraj Mandhare to exclusively look after the textile town. Bhujbal, who is also the state food and civic supplies minister, has asked Mandhare to appoint an incident commander for Yeola, where the number of positive cases went up from 14 to 25 in just one day. A meeting was held by Bhujbal to assess the Covid-19 situation in Nashik district and it was attended by divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, IG Nashik Range Cherring Dorje, Mandhare, Nashik Municipal Corporation chief Radhakrishna Game, among other senior officials. "The situation in Malegaon is alarming and there is a need to have a separate officer to take charge of affairs there. While the district collector (Mandhare) should take charge of Malegaon, the situation in Nashik city should be handled by Game and the situation in Nashik rural areas, other than Malegaon, will be handed by zilla parishad CEO Leena Bansod,” Bhujbal said. Bhujbal also noted that there was huge rise in the number of positive cases in rural areas of Nashik, especially in Yeola taluka, which is his home town. “The situation is tough in rural areas of Nashik, especially in Yeola. The district collector, therefore, should announce an incident commander for the town so that things can be taken care of and the situation is brought under control,” he said. Bhujbal also wanted the laboratory to test the throat swab samples at the earliest to ensure the results were known in the shortest possible time, allowing the doctors to start the treatment at the earliest. “If the laboratory here is overloaded with the samples, the administration should consider sending their samples to JJ Hospital in Mumbai where the swab testing facility for 300 samples has been reserved," the minister said. Provide food, water, milk to migrants walking home Bhujbal also pointed out that there were large number of workers who have started walking from Mumbai and Thane to their respective hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. "The administration should make all necessary arrangements to ensure these workers are allowed to pass and if they are willing to stay back they can be kept in the shelter homes. Arrangement for food, water and milk should be made for those walking back," Bhujbal said. 18 new cases reported, district tally reaches 521 Meanwhile, a total of 18 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in the district between Wednesday and Thursday. The total number of positive patients in district is 521 of which Malegaon alone accounts for 420 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-collector-to-look-after-malegaon-says-bhujbal/articleshow/75608734.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops sound warning on fake Aarogya Setu app||Bhubaneswar: The commissionerate police on Wednesday cautioned citizens against unknown Pakistan-based cyber crooks for circulating fake and malicious Aarogya Setu app on social media. Police advised people to download the app only from authentic sources like http://Mygov.in, Apple or Android playstore. “We have not received any such complaints in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. But we are alert after coming across instances in some places outside the state where Pakistan-based cyber frauds used the malicious software to hack and steal data from phones and systems,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said. The police advisory said some users are receiving SMS, WhatsApp message or links on their email IDs to download the Aarogya Setu app. “We appeal to people to ignore such unsolicited invitations or sources to download the app. The app should be downloaded from Google and Apple playstore,” the advisory said. Police have advised people to immediately delete suspicious links and messages and go for factory reset of their mobile phones. “These links are malicious. Once clicked, people will be directed to an App called ChatMe on the screen. This is being used by Pakistan-based groups to take away data,” the advisory read. The Centre launched the app on April 2. It was designed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic to collect data on one’s location and link it with the ICMR’s database of Covid-19 tests to warn a user if an infected person is in close proximity. Sources said over 10 lakh people have already downloaded the app in Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-sound-warning-on-fake-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/75585902.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Crime, accident rates drop in rural areas||Coimbatore: Crime and fatal accident rates have drastically come down in the rural areas of the district during the ongoing lockdown.As per the data available with the district police, the rural areas have reported only a murder case, and a major and 10 minor assault cases during the period between March 24 and May 6, compared to three murders, two attempted murder, four rioting cases and 28 assault cases during February 13-March 24 period.While one dacoity, five robberies, seven chain snatching, one house break-in were reported from February 13 to March 24, no such cases have been reported in the rural areas during lockdown.There is also let up in crimes against women and minor girls, be it rape, sexual assault, molestation and dowry harassment. While one rape case and four cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Posco) Act were reported during February 13 March 24 period, the rural areas were devoid of any such cases during the lockdown, no rape case, molestation, kidnapping, POCSO, Dowry Harassment reported.While 79 people had committed suicide during the period before lockdown, only 32 had taken taken their lives during the lockdown.During the lockdown, only two people were killed in as many fatal accidents in the rural areas, which also reported 23 non-fatal accidents. It is to be noted that 44 people were killed in 42 fatal accidents during February 13-March 24 period, when the rural areas had reported 187 non-fatal accidents.District superintendent of police Sujit Kumar attributed the drop in crime and fatal accident rate to low movement of people and vehicles on the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/crime-accident-rates-drop-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75611513.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||App to monitor private doctors||NASHIK: The district administration has started an application — DocRx — for monitoring private medical practitioners and the services they offer to non-Covid patients in the textile town of Malegaon. The district administration has formed flying squads and developed an application that keeps a watch on the medical practitioners in the town. Some private medical practitioners had shut down their clinics and hospitals in Malegaon after the outbreak of Covid-19 positive cases that resulted in inconvenience to people suffering from other ailments. The district administration had to quickly open the sub-district hospital entirely for non-Covid patients and shift all the isolation wards for Covid-19 patients to other hospitals The private medical practitioners were not ready to open their facilities as they and their staff felt unsafe in the town. The administration had also provided them with PPE kits so that they could deal with the situation. At the same time, the administration gave them an ultimatum to start their practice or loose licence. “As of now most of the clinics and hospitals are functioning and the flying squad is monitoring them,” sources said. “We are able to pick up information about the opening hours of the facility, the presence of doctors and patients in the facility through which we ensure that the non-Covid patients get the basic treatment at all times,” a district administration officer added. “We are sure that the system is almost back on track and patients are getting treatment as required. There are 11 mobile vans which are providing primary help to non-Covid patients and are referring them to the sub-district hospital if required. The teams are also helping out in finding out Covid-related cases as well,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/app-to-monitor-private-doctors/articleshow/75608775.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 8, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Rain ‘washes away’ 80 cartons of IMFL kept in police strongroom, probe on||BAREILLY: It rained so hard early this week that 80 cartons of seized India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) kept in police strongroom (maalkhana) of Faridpur police station in Bareilly were washed away during the lockdown. Don’t believe it? Neither did Bareilly senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey who has now ordered a probe into the incident. The SSP found the reason for the sudden disappearance of the cartons of liquor bottles as recorded in the maalkhana logbook a bit hard to believe and directed the local circle officer to probe it. Pandey told TOI, “This is really a serious concern and we are trying to investigate how the bottles kept in the cartons were damaged. In case someone is found involved in any unethical activity then strict action would be taken against him. The departmental investigation is on and we cannot share the information until the probe is complete.” According to the sources, police had recently seized 1,180 cartons of IMFL in Faridpur which was getting smuggled in three trucks from Haryana to Bihar. However, the liquor brand, not available in local market, soon found its way into the Faridpur town. It caught attention of a few locals and the district police received an anonymous call about the illicit sale. After the SSP found that the count of total seized liquor had decreased and the reason for the damage of the cartons was not satisfactory, he asked circle officer Nagendra Yadav to probe the incident. On his part, inspector Dhananjay Singh, who had seized the liquor and kept it in the strongroom told TOI, “The missing liquor had actually damaged as it was not kept with great care because such seized liquor is destroyed after we file a chargesheet and the case is complete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rain-washes-away-80-cartons-of-imfl-kept-in-police-strongroom-probe-on/articleshow/75608754.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Farmers urge corporation to serve banana to Covid-19 patients||TRICHY: The banana farmers have appealed to the district administration to purchase bananas in bulk after fixing a reasonable price as it can be used to serve the patients, who are being treated in isolation wards for Covid-19 in government hospitals. Farmers added that this would help them get back the money they spent to raise the plantation. Following the ongoing lockdown imposed due to the spread of coronavirus, farmers, particularly banana cultivators, have been worst affected. Nendran banana farmers could not transport their produce to various places and farmers, who cultivated Poovan, Rasthali and Elarisi varieties, could not sell their produce at the local market as many vegetable markets have remained closed due to the lockdown. So, the price of each bunch has come down drastically, state organizer of farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress (TMC), Puliyur A Nagarajan said. "I have appealed to the district authorities to procure banana prodcue from small farmers after fixing Rs 20 as price per kg for Poovan and Green banana variety. This can be served to Covid-19 positive patients, who are being treated at the hospitals. This move would help farmers who are in a distress to some extent,” Nagarajan said. He also said that they have handed over a memorandum to the district officials as well as the city corporation commissioner C Sivasubramanian. Meanwhile, the members of farmers’ wing of TMC headed by Nagarajan, donated bananas worth Rs 75,000 to serve the Covid-19 frontline workers particularly the conservancy workers. They handed over a truck full of bananas to Sivasubramanian at the corporation office on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-urge-corpn-to-serve-banana-to-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75611511.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Teenage girl electrocuted in Coonoor taluk||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A 19-year-old girl was electrocuted at Kunnakombai near Colakombai village in Coonoor taluk on Thursday. A Mangammal was drying clothes on the clothesline around 8.30am when the tragedy took place. She came in contact with a live wire running parallel to the clothesline, police said. Mangammal’s brother A Thirupathi, 16 and neighbour Saranya, 26, who sustained serious injuries while attempting to rescue her, were rushed to the Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital. The body was also shifted to the hospital for postmortem. Mangammal’s parents are estate workers in Colacombai. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teenage-girl-electrocuted/articleshow/75611512.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: NGO feeds over 1,000 animals||NASHIK: City-based non-government organisation (NGO) Sharan has fed over 1,000 animals across Nashik since the lockdown has been imposed. Sharanya Shetty, secretary of the NGO, said, “We took permission from the civic body for letting our vehicles move in the city so that we can feed the animals. Members of our NGO are going on the streets twice a day to feed the animals as they are not getting food from their usual source for the past 45 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ngo-feeds-over-1000-animals/articleshow/75608792.cms||pragya jain
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Political parties condemn state government||Coimbatore: As large number of people queued up in front of Tasmac shops on the first day of their reopening, members of several political parties took to the streets in several parts of the district on Thursday to condemn the state government’s move. They came out wearing masks and ensured physical distancing as they staged protests.DMK MLA N Karthik said, “What’s the need to open state-run liquor shops when Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise? If the public fail to ensure physical distancing norms at the outlets, it would further lead to a spike in infection.” He, along with other DMK cadres, staged protest at Anna Nagar in Peelamdu.Pointing out that representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) had requested the district administration to permit them to reopen their units a few days ago, the Singanallur legislator said officials had then turned down their request even after they assured to run the units with minimal workforce. “How safe would liquor shops be than MSME units?”He said the tipplers would now spend more on liquor, putting the financial stability of their families at risk. “Its impact could be felt in the society in a few days.” K S Kanagaraj, district secretary, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), said it was not the right time to reopen liquor shops. Pressing their demands, DYFI members have sent thousands of emails to the state government.He said the state government was yet to receive its share of Goods and Service Tax (GST) from the Centre. “If the state is facing financial crisis, it should look for ways to get its pending fund from the Centre, instead of trying to collect it from the public by way of liquor sales.”He said only a few workers have managed to find a job that too after a long gap. “Now that the Tasmac outlets are open, most of them are likely to spend their earnings on liquor, instead of using that to take care of their family members.” Demanding fund to the state to intensify Covid-19 preventive measures and Rs5,000 for the families that had lost employment due to lockdown from the central government, members of the CPI and the CPM staged protests in the city. They also condemned the state government for reopening the liquor shops. While the CPM members, led by MP P R Natrajan, held black umbrella protest at Gandhipuram, CPI members, led by district secretary S V Sundaram, conducted black flag protest at the district party headquarters. Ashiq Mohammed, district deputy secretary, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), said, “It has been one of our long pending demands to close liquor shops in the state as it has negative impact on the public. But the state government, which has been hesitating to reopen religious places, has today opened liquor shops. How fair is this?” The MMK members staged protest at 19 places, including Ukkadam, Karumbukadai, Kuniyamuthur and Singanallur, in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/political-parties-condemn-state-government/articleshow/75611528.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Marauding monkey kills 50 goats, Arumbavur villagers in panic||TRICHY: The movement of a suspected rabies-infected monkey has kept residents of Arumbavur village in Perambalur district indoors. The monkey, which came to the village in January, has claimed the lives of around 50 goats in the village and has also attacked and injured a few women. But, the administration is yet to take any steps to address the issue, the villagers said.N Krishnamurthy, 65, residing in the village said that they have to live in constant fear of the monkey, which has prevented their visits to shops to get essentials. The monkey was bitten by dogs and staff in the primary health centre in the village suspect that the monkey may be infected with rabies, he said. S Muthu, 40, another villager, said that it has claimed the lives of 50 goats in the village affecting their livelihood. They had tried to catch the monkey but failed. The villagers have filed a petition to district collector seeking steps to capture the monkey that is posing a threat to their lives. A senior official from collector’s office said that complaint has been forwarded to the forest department for appropriate action. Honorary district animal welfare officer G Ramakrishnan from Animal welfare board of India (AWBI) said that it may not be a case of rabies as monkeys, if infected with rabies, would die in a week. It could be infected with some other disease, which may be reason for its violent behaviour, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/marauding-monkey-kills-50-goats-arumbavur-villagers-in-panic/articleshow/75611527.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 38-year-old critically ill patient recovers from Covid-19||AURANGABAD: A 38-year-old critically ill Covid-19 patient admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) was on Thursday discharged after being recovered from the infection. The man tested negative for Covid-19 for two consecutive days on 14th and 15th day of admission. He was placed under observation for two more days and was discharged from the hospital at 11 am on Thursday. Earlier, the patient consistently had low oxygen levels in his blood stream and had to be kept on ventilator, the hospital authorities said. According to GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, the 38-year-old man from Samata Nagar in the city was brought to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Dedicated Covid Hospital at GMCH’s medicine building on April 20 in a critical condition. “He had tested positive for novel coronavirus on April 10 and was undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital. However, the patient was referred to the GMCH after his blood oxygen levels dropped,” Yelikar said. The blood oxygen levels of the said patient had dropped to as low as 86% as against the normal level of 95% to 100%, Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH, said. “He was kept on ventilator and was treated according to the protocol set by the ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India. The treatment was carried out by a medical team headed by medicine HoD Meenakshi Bhattacharya. Gradually, his arterial oxygen level started increasing until it became normal,” Gaikwad said. Notably, this is the first recovery registered by a Covid-19 positive case which had turned critical. The medical team at the hospital is motivated with the healing of the patient. The team gave a hearty farewell as the patient stepped out of the hospital in good health. Team of doctors at medicine department which were treating the patient included Avinash Munde, Alim Patel, Sandesh Malu, Sandeep Chavan, Dr Chetan Digvijay Chavan and nursing staff comprised of Vimal Kedare, Mahendra, Pratik Joshi and Rohini Thokre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/38-yr-old-critically-ill-patient-recovers-from-covid-19/articleshow/75608793.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||7K ha to be brought under micro irrigation||Coimbatore: With summer farming activities picking up pace, the agriculture department has been allotted Rs 45 crore to implement micro irrigation scheme in 7,000 hectares across the district. The amount would be used to provide subsidies to eligible farmers. The scheme, which is being implemented under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, ensures s back-end subsidy to farmers for implementing micro irrigation in their fields. Small and marginal farmers with less than five acres farmland would be given 100% subsidy and others 75% for up to 12.5 acres.Farmers would be provided the subsidy for three components - drip irrigation, sprinkler and rain gun. Drip irrigation would irrigate crops’ root area, while the other two would irrigate a wider area. This would save up to 70% water, and if fertilisers are mixed in this, 50% fertilisers too can be saved, said a communication from the agriculture department.The department would be allotted another Rs 3.1 crore for implementing ‘supplementary water management’ activities across the district to store water. This includes installation of diesel pumps or electric motors, laying of conveyance pipes and construction of ground-level water storage structures. Farmers would be given half the cost of these components as a back-end subsidy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/7k-ha-to-be-brought-under-micro-irrigation/articleshow/75611537.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Red Cross marks 100 years||The Indian Red Cross Society is going to celebrate 100 years on Friday on the occasion of World Red Cross Day. In Marathwada, the organisation had actively worked for relief during Khillari earthquake of 1993 and to prevent the re-eruption of plague in the region in 2002. The organisation continues to work with district disaster management authority in co-ordination with various NGOs to handle distress calls during Covid-19. Shyam Dande, senior volunteer of the Indian Red Cross Society recalls the call he received on a morning of 1993. “The earthquake occurred in Khillari at around 4 am on September 30. An hour later, I got a call from the chairman of Red Cross Society in Germany asking the magnitude of damage. At 7 am, I received a call from Aurangabad district collector Pramod Mane. Subsequently, chairman of Indian Red Cross Society Sanjay Hivrekar met with him and he provided us with four jeeps and in next few hours we were on our way to Khillari with 12 volunteers and jeeps loaded with medicines costing around Rs 3.50 lakh,” Dande said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the organisation is providing groceries to those who are unable to afford it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/red-cross-marks-100-years/articleshow/75608811.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||A sweetener for Chhindwara residents in bitter lockdown||Bhopal: Adding a tinge of sweetness to the bitter lockdown 3.0, the Chhindwara administration gave its nod to home delivery of sweets on Thursday. The district in orange zone where so far 5 positive cases have been reported. At present there are only 2 active patients, as two of them have recovered and one had died. For now, the district administration has given permission to 11 sweet-sellers for home delivery of sweets, while adhering to appropriate security and social distancing norms. “As per the guidelines all shops could be opened in orange zone districts. So a change has been made in the order issued under section 144 and sweet shops have been allowed home delivery of products from their workshop or shops”, sub-divisional magistrate Atul Singh told TOI.He said, “Before giving the permission, the old stock of all shops was verified and appropriately certified by the food safety officers under the food safety Act. After getting the certificates, these shops have been allowed to deliver sweets at consumer’s home. But the traders have been asked to ensure that social distancing norms are followed and all precautions are taken. The decision was taken at the meeting of district-level crisis management committee. We have also deployed food safety officers to ensure strict compliance of norms.” A sweets-seller Saket Bhandari said, “We did not open our workshop or shop as adhering to all safety norms is quite difficult. So we are preparing limited sweets at our home kitchen and our family members are preparing the sweets and supplying it to the people. Since we have also not advertised about it much, very few orders are being received. Only items like Kaju Barfi, Milk-Cake which can be easily be prepared at home are being delivered now,” he said. Bhandari said, “We are also not sure if this permission will last long as the covid-19 situation is very fragile and if some new people test positive, the relaxation will be rolled back. We got only a few orders on the first day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-sweetener-for-chhindwara-residents-in-bitter-lockdown/articleshow/75611536.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Goa cops book violators of lockdown||PANAJI: Taking cognisance of the photo published by TOI on Wednesday showing shacks operating at Ozran beach in North Goa in violation of lockdown norms, Goa police on Thursday booked the shack owner. “The shack owner has dismantled the shack,” inspector general of police Jaspal Singh told TOI. “Thanks for sharing this. #goapolice has taken instant action. The shack Shiva Place is dismantled. Violators of #lockdown have been booked as per law. Request everyone to kindly intimate on 112 at once if you see any violations,” DGP_Goa tweeted. Anjuna PI Suraj Gawas said when asked why they did not demolish the shack earlier the owner said they could not find labourers. A case has been registered under Section 188 for lockdown violations, Gawas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/toi-impact-cops-book-violators-of-lockdown/articleshow/75612277.cms||Murari Shetye
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||Mulayam Singh Yadav takes ill, admitted to hospital in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav was admitted to a private hospital in Lucknow where he underwent a minor gastro surgical procedure on Wednesday evening. His condition is said to be stable. Earlier in the day, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and other family members of the octagenarian politician visited him in the hospital. Hospital’s director Dr Rakesh Kapoor said: “Mulayam Singhji was brought to the hospital on Wednesday with complaint of prolonged constipation. He was examined by a team comprising Dr Abhay Verma and Dr Anand Prakash who began the treatment with conservative non-invasive options.” When the SP leader didn’t get relief with routine methods, the gastro specialists decided for colonoscopy,” he said. “He is now stable but has been kept under observation. If his vitals remain constant, he will be discharged on Friday,” Dr Kapoor told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msy-takes-ill-admitted-to-hospital/articleshow/75612285.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Cyclists’ Foundation cancels annual cycle race||NASHIK: The Nashik Cyclists’ Foundation (NCF) has cancelled this year’s Nashik-Pandharpur cycle wari due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The annual affair — organised by Nashik Cyclists’ Foundation (NCF) and Data Cancer Genetics Ltd — is held on Ekadashi and this year, the event was to be conducted between June 28 and 30. Hundreds of cyclists participate in the race that covers over 360 km between Nashik and Pandharpur. Last year, over 800 cyclists had participated in the race and for this year the NCF was expecting that the number of participants will go beyond 1,000. "We have decided to cancel this year’s Nashik-Pandharpur cycle rally. This is for the first time that the wari will be not be held due to the ongoing pandemic," Ratnakar Aher, president NCF, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ncf-cancels-annualcycle-race/articleshow/75608857.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Syllabus to be pared for shortened academic year in Karnataka||MANGALURU: Although both the state and central governments have relaxed restrictions of the lockdown primarily to steer the economy back on track, the rising number of Covid-19 cases across Karnataka is likely to further delay reopening of schools and colleges for the 2020-21 academic year. Karnataka primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar pointed out that the government had taken note of the circumstances, and hinted at the possibility of truncating the academic year. Such a proposition, the minister said, would entail paring the syllabus down in proportion to the reduced number of teaching hours. The department of public instruction (DPI) is mulling over reducing the portions for the upcoming academic year. The minister, participating in a meeting attended by senior DPI officials, directed them to identify lessons and units in textbooks for classes from I to X that can be removed. He said that additional portions from I and II PU too must be removed in order to ensure that students do not have to cram too much in the limited time they are to be left with. Suresh Kumar asked the officials to prepare a detailed report on the proposal. “The amount of syllabus pared must be proportional to the teaching hours lost owing to the pandemic. The syllabus must include a component on Covid-19 for students of all classes and the changes it has wrought on society,” he said. However, the minister said that the Covid-19 component must be framed in such a manner that is appropriate to the age of students. He further added that the component must be added in the syllabus at the Teachers’ Training Institute. “Covid-19 will be an integral component in the academic syllabus going forward. The DPI will leverage its Makkalvani YouTube channel as an alternative learning tool and lessons for classes I to X will be developed. Subject wise experts will develop content which will serve as reference for teachers and students in future,” Suresh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/syllabus-to-be-pared-for-shortened-academic-year-in-ktaka/articleshow/75608115.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cheers! Production of beer, spirits may resume tomorrow||KOLKATA: After off-shops and Bevco reopened across all zones, barring in containment areas, more good news awaits tipplers. The dwindling stock at warehouses of Bevco , the state-owned wholesale liquor agency, is set to be replenished soon, with the government permitting producers of India-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer to restart operations. If everything goes according to plan, all distilleries, breweries and bottling plants will resume production by Saturday. However, there’s a concern over manpower shortage among brewery operators. The permission to resume production comes at a time when the stock left at Bevco warehouses is likely to last only two-three more days, following the surge in uptake since retail liquor shops opened on Monday. Since the reopening, most warehouses have recorded an average daily billing of over Rs 2.5 crore, while three large Bevco warehouses at Cossipore, Panchla and Kharagpur have recorded billing of over Rs 4-4.5 crore per day. The total billing from the 22 Bevco warehouses in the state could be around Rs 250 crore. Bengal has two distilleries, three breweries and 10 bottling plants of IMFL. Most of them would start production by Saturday, though some teething problems remained, a source in the industry said. According to him, distilleries and breweries have been granted permission to restart operations but they did not have the sanction for too many manpower. “We have received initial permission for asking 50 people to join work only but we need many more for production. We are discussing the issue with the government and it would be resolved soon,” a producer said. According to the source, the state is now more or less self-sufficient, when it came to producing both beer and IMFL, except for a few brands. Earlier, Bengal used to procure extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), the main raw material for IMFL, from other states but now, it produces almost 70%-80% of its requirements. The state has two distilleries of Globus Spirits and IFB that produce ENA. Globus Spirits, the largest ENA producer in the country, set up its plant in Bengal two years ago. Industry sources said combined ENA capacity of Globus and IFB is around 2 lakh litres per day. “Both distilleries have around 5 lakh-6 lakh litres of ENA stock. So for bottling plants, restarting production will not be a big problem,” the source added. The combined capacity of three breweries in Kalyani, Dhanekhali and Dankuni is 2 crore cases per year, while the beer demand in Bengal last year was 80 lakh cases . UB brewery in Kalyani is the biggest producer, with a capacity of 9 lakh cases per day, followed by the Dhanekhali unit of Carlsberg with 7 lakh cases and the Dankuni unit of Haywards. “Bengal now exports beer to other states as our production is higher than consumption,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cheers-production-of-beer-spirits-may-resume-tomorrow/articleshow/75611572.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Low prices, purchase restrictions worry cotton growers||AURANGABAD: Cotton growers in Marathwada and Vidarbha regions are facing a storage crisis. Moreover, they are also compelled to sell their produce at 60% of the market price. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is purchasing only grade-I cotton, while private buyers are paying only between Rs 3,000 and Rs 3500 against the market price of Rs 5,000-5,300 per quintal. The government’s lack of a cotton policy is likely to leave these farmers with little for the upcoming sowing season, said experts. Bhaskar Deshmukh, a farmer from the Sanglud village in Akola district, has 125 quintal of cotton lying with him. He said the CCI is only buying grade-I cotton, but his produce includes different grades. Even if he sells off the high-quality cotton, 75% of his stock will still be unsold. “We were almost ready to take out our cotton when the lockdown was announced. Now, we are having a storage crisis and there is no market either,” Deshmukh said. Laxmikant Kauthkar, agriculture activist from the Shetkari Sanghatna, said 20% of the cotton yield is still with the farmers. “The CCI is purchasing only 50 trucks of cotton from one centre a day and that too only grade-I cotton. But farmers harvest different grades of the crop. Also, at this rate, the purchasing would not exhaust the harvested crop until the monsoon. Cotton will start rotting if it remains with the farmers during the rain,” Kauthkar said. He added that while the harvested cotton has a market price of Rs 5,000-5300, due to CCI’s decision to buy only grade-I cotton, the farmers are selling it to private buyers for Rs 3,000-3,500. “Only registered farmers can sell cotton to the CCI, but the registration has stopped now. The farmers are in waiting to get themselves registered,” he said. According to organic farming expert Ravindra Deshmukh, cotton tends to lose moisture due to heat if it is with the farmers. In addition, the stock may catch fire during the summer. He said the farmers should also decide on how much they want to depend on cotton and switch to other crops which can be grown organically. Manish Daga of Cottonguru LLP, which works with farmers across India on improving yield and marketing, said that lack of decision-making by the government will have a widespread impact. “Cotton industry has the longest supply chain. If the farmer’s produce is not sold, he will not have enough money to spend on the upcoming sowing season. In addition, the government is choosing to sell cotton to ginning industries at 10% higher costs than the market price during the pandemic. There are no workers available for industries. The textile sector is the second-highest employer after agriculture. If this supply chain is affected, not only will the government revenue be affected, it would trigger large-scale unemployment,” Daga said. Cottonguru LLP and Shetkari Sanghatna have reached out to the government seeking immediate action on the cotton crisis. However, a response is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/low-prices-purchase-restrictions-worry-cotton-growers/articleshow/75608849.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Fed up, migrant labourers decide to walk home to UP from Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Cash-strapped, smitten by hunger and with the government remaining deaf to their pleas, interstate migrant workers stuck in Bengaluru, on Thursday, continued their clamour to return home. Rather than wait for train services to resume, many migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh were seen walking back to their home state. They left their colonies early on Thursday and had crossed Hebbal by afternoon. They were last seen walking towards Devanahalli on Airport Road. Others were seen hitching rides on tractors, but most of them remained stranded in various colonies or relief camps set up by the government. On Wednesday, Byatarayanapura MLA Krishna Byregowda tweeted: “State Govt cancels trains. Thousands of people, in groups of 10/20, are just WALKING TO UP. @CMofKarnataka this is inhuman. They are so disturbed as to walk home, pls don’t force. Some may die. Govt can not be the paid agent of the real estate lobby. Send them well so they want to come back (sic).” His post was accompanied by a video. Another group of workers, originally from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, had begun walking towards Hyderabad. “We live in Banashankari. The police are preventing us from going anywhere and owners are not letting us stay. We have no transport, so we decided to walk,” one labourer said. Many Still Stranded“Hum ko baand ke rakha hain,” which translates to “We’ve been kept here against our will,” one Uttar Pradesh labourer TOI spoke with said, pleading for something to be done to send them back home. His colony has more than 800 workers from three states. The gates of the colony near CV Raman Nagar were locked, disabling their movement. Another 200 people were stuck in a community hall in Hebbal. “Even today, they are threatening us with eviction. The police are forcing us to work,” the labourer said. As of Thursday, at least 1.5 lakh migrants from other states stuck in Bengaluru had registered with the Seva Sindhu app, requesting transport to return home. Four states — Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh — accounted for 1.4 lakh people. In fact, the 1.5 lakh outside workers registering to leave Bengaluru account for 71% of the 2.1 lakh people registered to leave Karnataka from across the state. And, those from the aforementioned four states account for 92% of all migrants wanting to leave. Lawyer and activist Vinay Sreenivasa said: “The government has not been able to deliver. It was the government’s responsibility to arrange for trains and communicate clearly with workers. Neither of these things was done. Now, many are restless and leaving, while some are stuck helplessly in labour colonies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fed-up-migrant-labourers-decide-to-walk-home-to-up-from-bluru/articleshow/75610828.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 8, 2020||Agra||Two more +ve cases in Firozabad, tally now 178, 115 active patients||Agra: Firozabad reported two more Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, including one police head constable and one nursing assistant of Firozabad government hospital. According to UP health directorate, Firozabad has reported 178 Covid-19 cases with 115 active ones and three deaths. Further, the directorate claimed 60 patients have recovered. However, according to CMO of Firozabad office, the total tally of corona positive is 170 with 100 actives cases. Firozabad CMO Dr S K Dixit said, “One of the corona positive is head constable of Ramgadh police station, while another one is a nurse of government hospital. Both have been sent to isolation facility.” Till date, Firozabad police has reported, a total of 19 cops as Covid-19 positive, including one who is currently put up in Hathras district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-more-ve-cases-in-firozabad-tally-now-178-115-active-patients/articleshow/75608850.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth fined for trying to poach deer||Coimbatore: Forest department officials on Wednesday arrested a youth for trying to poach deer near Pedhakuttai Pirivu, located within the Sirumugai forest range. The youth, who had no previous charges, was slapped with a fine of Rs 5,000.Sirumugai forest range official Senthil identified the accused as K Muthusamy, 20. “The poacher was spotted near a snare that was set up to trap deer in the forest area. Many deer get trapped in these snares. Some of them die,” he said.The snares are usually made of coiled barbed wire that is pulled apart and spread out over an area. When deer walk past the area, they get caught in these snares. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-fined-for-trying-to-poach-deer/articleshow/75611553.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: No new Covid-19 case for 4th day||COIMBATORE: There was no new Covid-19 case in the district for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday even as the state recorded another high volume of fresh cases. The public health department said officials have been screening people in hospitals and containment areas. They have also collected samples from all the 28 truck drivers who returned to the district from Koyambedu in Chennai, the largest novel coronavirus cluster in the state, over the past 10 days. While the district has reported 146 positive cares so far, there are only four active cases now. The public health department, which has tested 6,460 people for the novel coronavirus since March, said 1,623 of them were tested from May 3. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have been testing 300 to 400 samples a day since mid-April. In fact, we had tested 550 samples on May 4 alone. With the family members of positive patients testing negative for the virus, there is no reason to worry about the community spread.” The district administration has, meanwhile, further tightened preventive measures at the 11 check posts in the district and issuance of e-passes. “We allow movement to and from Chennai only if it’s a medical emergency or if they are moving essential goods. We are strictly monitoring the people coming to the district from Chennai,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-new-covid-19-case-for-4th-day/articleshow/75611548.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||SC/ST entrepreneurs seek benefits to tide over crisis||Coimbatore: The share of public sector undertaking (PSU) procurements set aside for MSMEs should be increased from 25% to 50% and within that, the internal share for SC/ST entrepreneurs should be increased from 4% to 10% to beat the crisis MSMEs are facing due to the lockdown, said a confederation of industries run by SC/ST entrepreneurs.Representatives of the Dr Ambedkar Chamber of Commerce, Confederation of Indian Affirmative Industries and Indian Chamber of Commerce for Affirmative Action made the demand in an online discussion with Union minister for micro small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari recently.They also want 20% of the CSR funds of PSUs channelised towards hand-holding and developing MSMEs run by members from the SC/ST communities, founder chairman of the Confederation of Indian Affirmative Industries (CIAI) D Navaneetha Sivakumar said. “PSUs have to invest 2% of their net profit in CSR activities. 50% of this should be channelised towards MSMEs, of which 20% should be used for hand-holding MSMEs run by members from SC/ST communities,” he said.The SC/ST Hub, a body under the Union ministry for MSMEs that provides professional support for SC/ST entrepreneurs in the public procurement policy, and initiatives such as Stand-Up India, should be made an autonomous body such as the Bharatiya Mahila Bank.Out of the Rs 1lakh-crore revival package announced for MSMEs, 25% should be exclusively allotted to MSMEs owned by SC/ST members, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sc/st-entrepreneurs-seek-benefits-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/75611542.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Migrant crisis may hit Metro work||BENGALURU: With migrant workers getting restive, tension is brewing at various labour camps, particularly those set up by contractors engaged in Namma Metro work. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) was among the first to resume construction work on April 23. “It’s harvest season in north India and these workers want to return home. Normally, contractors manage to get new workers when one batch goes back. But now workers aren’t coming to Bengaluru because of Covid-19 and train services too have been suspended. This will affect work,” said a senior BMRCL official. However, officials are hopeful of opening the Kanakapura Road stretch (Yelachenahalli –Anjanapura section) on August 15. “Most of the work on this stretch has been completed. So the deadline is on track. It’s also possible to meet the November deadline for the Mysuru Road stretch (Mysuru Road-Kengeri), but other corridors may be delayed,” an official said. Anil Gupta, a worker from Jharkhand, said: “The contractor isn’t paying us salaries. We are staying in crammed rooms and there is no safety.” BMRCL employees’ union vice-president Suryanarayana Murthy, said: “Being the principal employer, BMRCL should ensure contractors take care of the workers.” BMRCL MD Ajay Seth wasn’t available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/migrant-crisis-may-hit-metro-work/articleshow/75610897.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 8, 2020||Vadodara||Guj tribals walk home along rail track from UP||Vadodara: Three days before the first shramik special train rolled out from Gujarat carrying migrant labourers to their home in Uttar Pradesh from Ahmedabad, 14 tribal labourers from Gujarat stuck in UP started their 1,100km journey home from Moradabad, making the railway track their compass. Battling heat strokes, hunger, thirst and swollen blistered feet, these people trudged on relentlessly, day and night, to be with their families in Bilvant, a remote village in the tribal-dominated Chhota Udepur. However, on Wednesday, their arduous footmarch was cut short by a soldier from the same district, who took it upon himself to bring them home from Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh. The 14 workers were employed in a Moradabad unit of a New Delhi-based FMCG company. Facing uncertainty after the lockdown and finding it difficult to make ends meet, the migrants decided to walk home. “We were not getting food to eat and were also running out of money. We contacted the political leaders there to find us some means to help us reach home, but nothing happened. It was then that we finally decided to walk,” said Gurusharan Dhanak, adding that that the troupe walked along the railway tracks to reach till Delhi. “Upon reaching Delhi, we told the police that we wanted to go to Gujarat. They provided us with some food and then dropped us till Jaipur,” Dhanak told TOI, adding that they again resumed their home-bound walk from Jaipur. Meanwhile, news of their strenuous journey kept their families and villagers worried. “We were afraid of their safety and so contacted the politicians and authorities here in Chhota Udepur,” said Dhanak’s father Nazru. He added that due to the lockdown even the politicians could not do much to help. Vinu Rathwa, sarpanch of Bilvant village said, “We had brought back 6,000 labourers of our taluka from different parts of the state in March. We also wanted to bring these boys but permission was taking time.” It so happened that lockdown also kept a soldier of the same village stranded at home. Bhavsinh Rathwa, a rifleman with Assam Rifles, heard about the youths’ plight and decided to drive down to wherever they had reached. He brought them home in his Toofan from Ratlam and reached on Thursday. “I asked Vinubhai about their location and on Wednesday morning I went with some food and reached Ratlam,” said Bhavsinh, who fed the tired lot ‘rotlo’ and ‘bhaji’ before ferrying them home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-tribals-walk-home-along-rail-track-from-up/articleshow/75609795.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Mahdi Bagh sticking together even during social distancing||NAGPUR: When social distancing norms are going for a toss in many parts of the country, city’s Mahdi Bagh Colony is presenting an example of how to handle the lockdown together. Mahdi Bagh Youth Club (MBYC), formed in 2011-12 with an aim of personality development of youngsters, has made sure that residents don’t have to go out for essentials, and everything is available at their doorstep. Besides, they are taking utmost care of elderly people, who are dependent on domestic helps. MBYC has shouldered the responsibility with aplomb and is helping residents with proper planning and equally good implementation. As soon as the lockdown started, MBYC president Monuddin Malak floated the idea of centralized purchasing of groceries, vegetables, fruits and other essentials, to avoid going out. “It took us about a week to sort out things, and finalize the vendors. Once it was done, all went off smoothly,” MBYC secretary Farooq Haque told TOI. “Residents tell their requirements in our colony WhatsApp group. We then pass it on to vendors, who deliver all the stuff at our colony gate. Our volunteers then distribute the parcels after sanitizing them. A sanitizing tunnel has also been set up at the gate for outsiders, like plumbers and electricians, in case they are summoned in emergency,” Haque said. The colony also has a community kitchen which serves meals to all elderly colony residents. “We have been maintaining it for some time now. The whole purpose is to help residents whose children live out of town, and they are living alone. We personally visit their homes as some of them don’t use WhatsApp. The food is delivered to them following social distancing norms,” he said. Moiz Mannan Haque, head, department of mass communication, Nagpur University, who is also a resident here, said everyone prays at their home instead of congregational prayers during Ramzan. “Iftar has always been very simple for us. Simplicity is the core value of fasting. Even in community kitchen, we prepare simple food. The colony is like an extended family for everyone here, but we are strictly following social distancing norms,” Moiz said. MBYC is also extending help to many needy persons outside. “There is an elderly agent who does RTO related work for us. We have helped him and many others. We have also provided food to Yashodhara Nagar police station under whose jurisdiction our colony is. Each one of us is also paying our domestic helps even though they aren’t coming,” Moiz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahdi-bagh-sticking-together-even-during-social-distancing/articleshow/75613037.cms||Ruchir Mishra
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow zoo animals are calmer, more active in lockdown||LUCKNOW: Chhedilal, 11, has been enjoying long naps and peaceful walks around his enclosure these days. The otherwise ferocious man-eater tiger, who was rescued in 2016 from Chhedipur and kept in isolation for four years at Lucknow zoo, had become used to watching people. He would also roar at the incessant clicking of cameras. With zoo closed for public, Chhedilal, according to the keepers, is getting accustomed to his new lifestyle, becoming more relaxed and less aggressive. Like him, many other wild animals and birds in zoo have become more playful and responsive than usual days. “The stress factor has visibly reduced. There is no noise, except chirping of birds. Except for zoo staff, the inmates are facing no human interaction. Whenever the keepers go near their enclosures, they get happy and excited to see them,” said Sanjeev Johari, divisional forest officer at Lucknow zoo. Explaining changes in their behaviour, zoo director RK Singh said, “Animals are more active and playful and their aggression level has decreased. Tigers and lions are calm and our butterfly park is blooming. Giraffes, wild cats, macaque and others are roaming freely inside their enclosures. Gibbons are also seen playing around on wooden logs.” The zoo director said doctors and authorities were keeping a close watch on animals and all facilities, including disinfection protocol and minimum contact of keepers and staff while providing feed to animals, were being taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zoo-animals-are-calmer-more-active-in-lockdown/articleshow/75612296.cms||Aditi Singh
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Man held for derogatory post on deity||A 40-year-old man was arrested, in Pudukottai district on Wednesday, for sharing derogatory post on social media about the deity of Meeenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai. The man was identified as Manoharan, who runs a flex printing shop in Ponnamaravathi town. According to police, Manoharan, a member of Dravidar Kazhagam (DK), had shared derogatory post on social media about the temple deity which drew flak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-for-derogatory-post-on-deity/articleshow/75611574.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Migrant tests positive after meeting with accident||NASHIK: A 20-year-old migrant worker, originally from Madhya Pradesh, but residing here, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total count of patients in the city to 21. He had gone to Dhule and was returning on his bicycle when he was hit by a motorcycle. The civic officials told TOI that the youth was involved in tile fitting work and has been staying in the Samta Nagar area of Nashik East division for the past few months. “The migrant worker had travelled to Dhule, about 50km from here, for some work and his bicycle was hit by a motorcycle near Malegaon, leaving him injured. He was brought to the city in and ambulance,” said the officials According to officials, the youth admitted to the private college and medical hospital here for treatment to the injuries he had sustained in the accident. “Doctors at the private college and medical hospital collected the swab sample of the youth and sent it for testing even though he did not show any Covid symptoms,” said the officials. “It is being investigated how the youth travelled from Malegaon to Nashik and who all he came in contact with,” said the officials. The NMC sealed the area in Samta Nagar along Talkli road following the discovery. The civic body has also traced two high-risk contacts of the youth so far. They have been isolated in the hospital and their swab has been sent to lab for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrant-tests-positive-after-meeting-with-accident/articleshow/75608918.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Police trace one of four missing gurdwara staffers||AURANGABAD: Nanded police on Thursday traced one of the four missing staffers associated with the community kitchen (langar) of Nanded gurdwara. These four are part of the group of 20 people whose throat swab samples recently tested positive for Covid-19. Nanded superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Magar said the person was found on the gurdwara premises. "The patient is asymptomatic and claimed he did not know about his throat swab sample testing positive. We have formed special teams to trace the remaining three employees," he said. Earlier in the day, there were unconfirmed reports that all four missing Covid-19 patients from Nanded gurdwara were found in Chandrapur. The SP, however, denied such reports. Meanwhile, Nanded police as well as district administration have accused the civic authorities for not following due procedure while taking swab samples of patients, leading to non-tracing of Covid-19 patients. "The health authorities with Nande-Waghala municipal corporation were expected to record names and addresses of all suspect patients while taking their swab samples. A proof of personal identification and address must be produced before giving samples and database of the same should be also maintained properly. The laid down process was not followed due to which we are unable to reach the missing patients," Magar said. Nanded district so far has reported 35 confirmed cases of Covid 19, including four deaths. It includes 20 staffers associated with the langar along with four drivers and one attendant associated with buses that transported stranded Sikh pilgrims to Punjab from Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-trace-one-of-four-missing-gurdwara-staffers/articleshow/75608870.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Industrialists seek steps to retain migrants||AURANGABAD: Fearing a dearth of workers due to the current mass exodus of migrants, industry captains have stressed on the need for timely measures to ensure the availability of an adequate workforce. Pointing out that Bajaj Auto Limited had resumed production, local vendors associated with the automobile giant and other industry leaders urged the district administration to help them in retaining migrant workers. Bajaj Auto Limited, which is operating at around 20% efficiency for now, serves as the backbone of more than 400 local industrial units at Waluj. “We have to supply spare parts to Bajaj at any cost by restarting our production. The mass exodus of migrant workers has posed serious workforce issues. The district administration should help us in retaining the workers instead facilitating their return,” said Angiras Joshi, one of the entrepreneurs operating at Waluj. The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has also expressed concerns about the workers returning to their home states. “Industrial activities have gradually started resuming in Aurangabad and are expected to pick up pace eventually. However, the mass exodus of workers is a problem. Everyone had expected that the workers will have no issues once the industrial activities resume. On the contrary, they all want to return and the government is acting as a facilitator,” CMIA president Giridhar Sanganeria said. Sanganeria said fears associated with the possible long-term prevalence of Covid 19 might have forced the migrant workers and their families to think of leaving Maharashtra. “Maharashtra has had more coronavirus cases in comparison to other states in the country. And the infection is unlikely to get eradicated anytime soon as per some experts. this may have triggered panic among workers and their families back home,” he said. CMIA, the Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) and other industry bodies from Marathwada have appealed to the government authorities to join hands with industrial firms in dissuading the migrant workers from returning home. “We took care of the migrant workers like our family members during the entire lockdown. Needless to say, we will continue to protect their interest in future too. It is in the best interest of all concerned if the migrants stay back,” said Sanjay Kulkarni, an entrepreneur from Waluj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/industrialists-seek-steps-to-retain-migrants/articleshow/75608885.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown leash on pet shop owners||Coimbatore: Pet shops have been opening shutters across the city in a phased manner since Wednesday.While pet owners are relieved as they can stock up on feed, the shop owners heaved a sigh of relief as taking care of the pets is not a complicated task anymore. The lockdown proved a particularly trying ordeal, said vice-president of the Pet Shop Owners Association Suresh, who runs Kovai Pets Mart. “Owners of dogs and fish who wanted to sell them had to leave them behind in the shop. We had to get a permission letter from the collector to visit the shop for half-an-hour in the morning and evening to take care of them. Even with the letter, police used to stop us. Several roads were barricaded, and it was very difficult to reach our shops,” he told TOI.Shop owners who stay in small houses and sell small dog breeds and puppies struggled the most. “We had to keep them inside the house because they require fan or air conditioner as it is summer,” said S P Mahendran who runs Best Pet Shop on Marudhamalai Road. “That complicated things at home and for the animals.”They also suffered financially, said president of the association S Saravana Kumar, who runs Quality Pet Shops at Kavundampalayam. “Landlords demanded rent for March and April though we told them that we were making no revenue. We had to handle maintenance of the shop, animals, aquarium equipment, our staff salaries and electricity without revenue. Some banks are yet to give us an EMI break.”A few loyal customers buying feed was their only source of revenue during the period, Kumar said. “Some people choose to buy feed from us as we prescribe the quantity required, timing to provide the feed and how to add nutrition.”“The business of selling pets can improve only after the lockdown is lifted. When everyone is locked down and finding it hard to meet their own requirements, the chance of them taking on the responsibility of another life is less,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-leash-on-pet-shop-owners/articleshow/75611571.cms||---
May 8, 2020||India||Karnataka to let workers leave, Odisha stops incoming train||BENGALURU: Coming under criticism for cancelling Shramik Specials for migrants from Bengaluru to their home states, the Karnataka government has decided to resume services from Friday. The state had cancelled the trains after CM B S Yediyurappa met builders and many real estate firms reportedly expressed concerns over labour exodus. Meanwhile, a train slated to leave Mumbai with 1,200 migrants for Bhubaneswar on Thursday was called off at the eleventh hour after the Odisha HC directed that only migrants who have tested Covid-free be allowed into the state. Odisha officials said the order left them with no option but to cancel the train as they are in no position to test lakhs of migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-to-let-workers-leave-odisha-stops-incoming-train/articleshow/75613618.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals’ bid to protect staff in non-Covid units||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata are stepping up measures to safeguard their doctors, nurses and healthcare workers treating non-Covid patients to ensure the novel coronavirus is not transmitted to them from asymptomatic people, both on their premises and elsewhere. After Peerless Hospital shut on Monday, other facilities are reducing working hours and some are arranging for accommodation for their staff working outside Covid units to minimize chances of infection at home. More than 10 health workers, including four doctors, at Peerless were infected in past two weeks. AMRI Hospitals have decided to offer accommodation to doctors, nurses and lab staff working outside Covid unit. So far, the hospital had been housing only their Covid unit workers at various guesthouses and hotels and quarantining them in turns. “. We need to make sure our health staff are not exposed to even non-Covid patients who could be carriers. We will offer them accommodation to ensure they are protected from transmission at home,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. “Also, we are working with a reduced workforce as the number of patients has come down,” he said. Fortis Hospital, too, now plans to insulate its non-Covid health workers. “Insulating only Covid health workers is not enough. All need to be protected. As transmission is now peaking, there will be a rise in the number of asymptomatic patients seeking treatment for other ailments. This puts health workers at a great risk ,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. This week, several private hospitals have resumed surgeries, leading to a swell in the number of non-Covid patients. It has also heightened the chances of cross-infection among patients and transmission to health workers. “As the transmission rate rises, more health workers might be affected. For every infected health worker, at least a dozen more would have to be quarantined. So, this reduces the working strength of a hospital,”said Dhar. It was safer to shut down than work with a depleted strength during the pandemic, he added. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), too, has chalked out a safety plan. RTIICS was being cautious about the volume of work they are exposing their staff to, said zonal director R Venkatesh. “We are taking care to screen and isolate any suspected case. Educating the staff on hygiene even outside the hospital is equally important,” said Venkatesh. Rupali Basu, CEO of Woodlands Hospital, which has no Covid unit, said, “Some staff were given off and some are on alternate daily/ weekly roster. Another section is working from home and some are residential in the hospital. All are on rotation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-bid-to-protect-staff-in-non-covid-units/articleshow/75611603.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 8, 2020||Goa||As taxes dry up, Goa staggers payments||PANAJI: Faced with acute funds crunch and a 90% drop in tax mop up due to the lockdown in April, the state government has been left with no choice but to stagger payments. From maintenance grants for aided schools to payments to contractors, temporary workers and non-essential disbursements, have all been put on hold. While the state’s GST collection for April dropped to Rs 32 crore against the expected Rs 338 crore, a mere 9% of the projected earnings, it has a committed expenditure of Rs 60 crore per month towards salaries, government provident fund, gratuity and group insurance. In March, GST collections witnessed a 19% drop at Rs 316 crore against Rs 389 crore compared a year ago. The state has yet to collate figures for VAT, excise, stamp duty and other duties but with a near lockdown imposed in Goa, finance department officials said only 10% of the monthly taxes would have been collected. “With lower revenue, budgeted expenditure will now be dependent on the revenue receipts,” said a government official. Officials said that VAT on fuel and alcohol has declined drastically due to the lockdown and closure of tourism. Tourists account for 40-50% of alcohol sales in the state but since March 22, there has been no alcohol sale till May 3. With the government departments also closed for public, stamp duty collection and registration fees have also dried up. To mop up some revenue, the Goa government had hiked VAT on petrol from 21% to 25% in mid-April. On May 4, TOI had front-paged a report stating that the government plans to curb non-essential expenditure and plug revenue leaks due to severe financial crunch. The finance department is now exploring immediate measures to augment revenue to meet its committed expenditure in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-taxes-dry-up-state-staggers-payments/articleshow/75612318.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 300 stranded Bamu students set to return home||AURANGABAD: With the lockdown norms gradually getting relaxed facilitating the movement of identified communities, around 310 students of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) are seeking to return to their hometowns. As a prelude to their departure, the university administration has initiated a two-day health check-up for these students which concluded on Thursday. Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said that most of the stranded students include those pursuing Ph.D or M.Phill or other courses. “The students welfare department of the university has established contact with the district administration, police and health authorities for completing all the necessary formalities. All official processes are being followed for ensuring the safe and hassle-free return of the stranded students. We hope that all formalities will be over shortly, following which students will be sent to their hometowns,” he said. The university administration had appealed to the students not to throng at the police station or government offices for getting travel passes or completing other formalities. “As the lockdown norms are relaxed, we have taken the lead to facilitate the safe return of students. All necessary processes are being carried out by following social distancing norms and other rules laid down by the authorities,” he said. The hostel number IV of Bamu has been designated as official place for completing necessary formalities at the end of students. “We expect that the travel passes of stranded students get ready in the next few days. A few groups have come forward voluntarily for arranging travel facilities for these students,” Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-300-stranded-bamu-students-set-to-return-home/articleshow/75608925.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nashik||Children to get nutritious food: NMC||NASHIK: The civic administration has decided to provide nutrition-rich food to the 12,000 students, enrolled in the 357 anaganwadis in the city, Banana, groundnut, jaggery among other nutrition-rich food items will be distributed by the Anganwadi staff among the children. “We have already started providing nutrition-rich food to children in some areas with the help of our anganwadi staff. Now, all students will get nutritious food as per government guidelines,” said a civic official. The Nashik Municipal Corporation has already provided safety kits to the anganwadi staff. “All the precautions like social distancing are being observed while providing nutritious food to the children,” said the official adding that the food was being given to the children residing in the areas out of the containment zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/children-to-get-nutritious-food-nmc/articleshow/75608932.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 8, 2020||Hubballi||Jharkhand-bound worker dies after walking for 100km||BELAGAVI: A 46-year-old migrant worker from Jharkhand, who decided to reach home by foot, collapsed and died after walking for 100kms on Thursday. The deceased, Babulal Singh, and 10 other workers started their journey from Khanapur on Tuesday morning. Singh collapsed after the group reached Chikkodi checkpost, which is 100km away from Khanapur. With no money in hand and public transport shut due to the nationwide lockdown, the Jharkhand-bound workers had planned to cover a distance of over 1,700km by walking and hitchhiking on goods vehicles. Though police and locals rushed Singh to a nearby government hospital, he didn’t respond to the treatment. According to sources, he died due to exhaustion. Sources said all the 11 workers were working for Mumbai-Goa National Highway upgradation project. The police have filed an unnatural death report (UDR) case and have alerted the family members in Jharkhand. “Babulal Singh and other workers were found walking near the checkpost. After Singh collapsed, he was taken to a hospital in Chikkodi for treatment and others were also screened. The workers were staying at VIPL Company shelter and not in government facility,” superintendent of police Laxman Nimbargi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jkhand-bound-worker-dies-after-walking-for-100km/articleshow/75611691.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Lucknow||3-year exemption from most labour laws in UP||Lucknow: With the economy taking a severe beating during the Covid-forced lockdown, UP government has passed an ordinance suspending a majority of labour laws in the state for three years. This is an attempt to help both existing and new industrial units, say government sources. The recommendations regarding the labour laws were finalised by a group of ministers comprising labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya and MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh. The state cabinet cleared the Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Labour Laws Ordinance on Wednesday, suspending more than 30 kind of labour laws in the state. The cabinet finalised the freezing of major laws in favour of industry with a view to attracting investment. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said recently that UP would amend labour laws to attract new investments, especially from China. “The economic activities in the states have been severely affected and slowed down due to the outbreak of Covid-19. This is because businesses and economic activities came to a halt more or less due to the national lockdown,” a government spokesperson said." Sources in the labour department said that there are about 40 kinds of labour laws prevalent in UP, some of which are now redundant while about seven to eight of them are being retained under the ordinance. These include the Bonded Labour Act of 1976, Employee Compensation Act of 1923 and Building and Other Construction Workers’ Act of 1996. Provisions of laws pertaining to women and children, like maternity act, equal remuneration act, child labour act and section 5 of the payment of wages act which states that wages of a person earning less than Rs 15,000 a month cannot be deducted are also being retained. Other labour laws likes those related to settling industrial disputes, health and working conditions of workers and trade unions, contract workers and migrant workers will be defunct for three years. By freezing the existing laws, owners of factories have been given more powers to hire and fire without attracting punitive measures from the labour department up to a certain limit. In another departure from the past, the enforcement wing would not raid the premises of factories on minor issues. Labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya said that suspension of the laws would help in setting up of new industries and ease problems of existing ones at a time when the Covid-19 lockdown had dealt a severe blow to the economy. “The laws will apply to both existing businesses and new industries. We have made sure that labourers do not suffer or are taken advantage of but we also had to ensure to remove any additional burden on the industrialist,” he said. Since labour is a concurrent subject, states can frame their own laws but will need the approval of the Centre to enforce them. Therefore, the ordinance will also be sent to the Central government for approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-year-exemption-from-most-labour-laws-in-up/articleshow/75612317.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Conned with friend’s photo in DP, man loses Rs 1L||Chandigarh: Online swindlers have duped a city resident of Rs 1 lakh by using the profile picture of his friend in WhatsApp, the police said. Posing as his friend, the trickster said he was stuck in the USA and needed money for his and his sister’s treatment.In a police complaint, Surinder Singh Jaswal, a resident of Sector 39, stated that he received a WhatsApp message on April 6 from an account that had the profile photo of his friend S K Rana. The complainant said the cheater wrote that he was diagnosed with Covid-19 in the USA and his sister was also admitted in a hospital for heart surgery. Requesting him to transfer money in his account, he promised that he would return the money after the lockdown ends and also visit India soon.Taking the request to be a genuine one, Surinder Singh transferred Rs 1 lakh in the DBS Bank account number provided by the cheater in two instalments.However, after a few days, when the complainant called up his friend to enquire about his health and sister’s surgery, the latter said he was fit and fine. He also denied contacting him for financial help. It was then that Surinder Singh realised that he had been duped.He filed a complaint at SSP public window which was forwarded to the cyber cell for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/conned-with-friends-photo-in-dp-man-loses-rs-1l/articleshow/75611588.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Centre nod to rath construction, yatra fate rests with state||Bhubaneswar: The Centre on Thursday approved the state government’s proposal to start building the chariots for the Puri Rath Yatra, scheduled for June 23. It has also allowed the state to take a decision on whether to hold the festival this year. Ministry of home affairs under-secretary Ashish Kumar Singh wrote to chief secretary Asit Tripathy, informing him of the Centre’s decision.  “The activity of the Rath construction is allowed to be undertaken in the ratha-khala (a workplace of chariot-making) situated on both sides of the Grand Road in front of the temple office and the royal palace, subject to some conditions. No religious congregation should take place at the construction site. Complete segregation of the ratha-khala should be ensured. The new lockdown guidelines issued by the MHA on May 1 should be compulsorily adhered to,” the letter said. “The decision on holding the Rath Yatra should be taken by the state government keeping in view the conditions prevailing at that point of time,” the letter added. The state government, which had sought the Centre’s approval for chariot work on Monday, has decided to ban everyone, save the carpenters making the chariots, from the site. “We will install barricades and put cloth walls around the spot,” a district official said. Sources said the administration would also ready a special quarantine centre for the carpenters. At least 100 carpenters (Maharana and Bhoi sevaks) are likely to be engaged in the work. “We are planning to ask the carpenters not to visit their families and other places till the completion of the chariots. Plans are afoot to prepare accommodation centres and other facilities for them,” another officer said. Carpenters and servitors said the approval came a bit late. “Every day counts as chariot-making is a very tough task. It takes more than 45 days to build the chariots. Work should have started on Akshaya Tritiya on April 26,” said Bijay Maharana, chief carpenter of Lord Jagannath’s chariot Nandighosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/centre-nod-to-rath-construction-yatra-fate-rests-with-state/articleshow/75608926.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans back migrants’ right to go back home||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government’s decision to discontinue special train services for migrant workers led to a public outcry in the city on Thursday. Bengalureans held symbolic demonstrations on rooftops, balconies and frontyards, denouncing the government’s move. At several places, groups of demonstrators stood on the road, six feet apart, and waved placards backing migrants’ right to return home. Twitter was flooded with pictures of people holding placards with messages urging the government to continue running trains to take migrant workers back home with #TrainsForMigrantsNow. Social-distancing norms were followed during a demonstration held at Cooke Town and near Infantry Road. On placards were messages like ‘Let workers live and leave with dignity’ and ‘Say no to bonded labour’. “There are 13 construction sites around Cooke Town itself and they have nearly 150 migrant labourers. None of the builders or contractors came to meet them during the lockdown and food provided by BBMP was sparse,” said Anjali Lal, a resident of Cooke Town. “When we heard about special trains being stopped, we were outraged. We decided to get together, just a small group of Cooke Town residents and stand in front of our houses with messages on placards,” she added. “If the migrant workers want to go home, the government should let them. Anything else is inhuman,” said Madhu Bhushan, another resident. “This was our way of letting people in power know the decision is undemocratic,” said Poorna Ravishankar, who protested near Infantry Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalureans-back-migrants-right-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75610941.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospitality industry writes to UT: Allow home delivery of food, restaurants||CHANDIGARH: The hospitality industry, which is suffering huge financial losses, has urged the Chandigarh administration to allow home delivery of food and opening of food outlets in a staggered manner. The Chandigarh Hospitality Association submitted to the UT finance secretary A K Sinha that the sector, despite being one of the biggest employment and revenue generators, has been bleeding due to corona restrictions. The association is now asking the government to allow home delivery of food as well as staggered opening of other food outlets. The association said when it comes to maintaining safety in food outlets, which included restaurants, bars, lounges, sweet and coffee shops, a cap on maximum sitting can be fixed, ensuring social distancing according to government’s guidelines. Ankit Gupta, president of Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said they have also raised the issue of bar license fee with the UT administration. As outlets are closed during the lockdown period, they suggested that the UT administration could collect bar license fee on a pro-rata basis from the actual date of opening of outlets, instead of collecting for the entire financial year, he said. UT adviser Manoj Parida has formed a committee under the chairmanship of Sinha, and residents and shopkeepers can submit their needs related to opening of shops, industries and offices to the committee. As of now, the UT has allowed opening of internal sector markets on an odd-even basis. The administration has not allowed shops located on sector dividing roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospitality-industry-writes-to-ut-allow-home-delivery-of-food-restaurants/articleshow/75611606.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Parvati Nagar deceased likely visited Mominpura, Satranjipura||Nagpur: Preliminary investigations by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police department have indicated patients in Parvati Nagar and Ajni in South-West Nagpur may have contracted Covid-19 from city’s two hotspots — Mominpura in Central Nagpur and Satranjipura in East Nagpur. It raises a big question on lockdown and also prohibition in containment zones. A 22-year-old football player from Parvati Nagar had died at GMCH on Tuesday, and his samples tested positive on Wednesday. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “The deceased was in regular contact with a group from Tambaku Gully in Parvati Nagar. This group has links with Mominpura. They used to visit Mominpura. Our team is finding more details,” he said. An official from police department said, “It is learnt that the group from Tambaku Gully, including the deceased, had visited Satranjipura a week ago. Further investigation is on.” NMC and police department are investigating as it is very important to know source of infection to contain spread of Covid-19. Sources from Parvati Nagar told TOI, “There is a ‘kabuttar khana’ in the area. A group from Tambaku Gully maintains pigeons. A game is played with pigeons, where the first pigeon to land on the ground loses, and other one is winner. The group from this area used to visit Mominpura and Satranjipura to purchase pigeons.” It is learnt groups from this area also go to Mominpura and Satranjipura to play the game, and also hosts players from these areas. While returning, the Parvati Nagar group used to bring meat and other products. “It was going on despite lockdown. Deceased used to sit in the area where the game used to be played, and was very close to the group,” sources said. Mominpura and Satranjipura have been containment zones since April 4 and 6, respectively. No one from outside the areas were allowed to enter into containment zones and vice versa. Mundhe added, “The administration is taking nine steps to contain Covid-19. People have to take only one step, that is cooperation by staying at homes, coming out only for essential services, and maintaining social distancing. Otherwise, disease will spread from one area to other. Also, people should inform or come and get tested in case of any symptoms.” The deceased was a person with comorbidity and was taking treatment from private practitioners for last few days. NMC has notified this area along with half of Ajni Railway Colony as containment zone. Some 150 people including 40 family members of the deceased were quarantined on Wednesday and 80 more close contacts on Thursday. As the deceased’s paternal uncle is a policeman, 11 cops — seven from Beltarodi police station and four from Ajni police station — too were quarantined on Wednesday. Two more from Sakkardara and traffic department were quarantined on Thursday as they were his neighbours. All are quarantined at RTPS hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parvati-nagar-deceased-likely-visited-mominpura-satranjipura/articleshow/75611944.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 8, 2020||Goa||Goa likely to escape this week’s heatwave||Edited. 220 words. Times News Network Panaji: While many other parts of the country are bracing for a heatwave, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Goa, has said the state may be spared of the phenomenon and may only face a slight increase in temperature. As such, the second week of May is likely to witness a maximum temperature of 36C. IMD-Goa said this may not necessarily meet the meteorological criteria for declaration of a heatwave as it needs to cross 37C. Respite is likely, too, as weather forecasters predict light rain on May 10 and 11. “The temperature could be on a higher side, with a maximum rise of 2-3C, but it does not qualify as a heatwave condition,” IMD-Goa scientist M C Rahul, said. The state government had warned of a possible heatwave from May 8 to 14 and had even issued a list of precautions for citizens. Scientists said the maximum temperature during this week will be between 35 and 36C and the minimum will be 27-28C. Temperatures are likely to peak between 11am and 3pm. “Temperatures rising to 35C in the summer is not unusual, but the discomfort level may be slightly higher due to heat and humidity. Despite that, there is no chance of a heatwave over Goa as of now,” Rahul said. As the week progresses, IMD may issue a forecast for light showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-likely-to-escape-this-weeks-heatwave/articleshow/75612331.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||E-passes for those planning to move out||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has launched an online platform to issue e-passes to people travelling out of Odisha. The e-pass will be issued to people stranded in Odisha, as well as those who want to travel outside the state for medical requirements. Persons intending to go outside the state can log on to https://covid19.odisha.gov.in. They need to provide travel itinerary and furnish passenger and vehicle details for review by the district authorities. After approval, the e-pass with passenger and vehicle details will be sent to the applicant through SMS and e-mail. The e-pass can also be viewed, downloaded and printed from the website. The platform has been developed by the state information and technology department and launched by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday. “Leveraging digital technologies is a key strategy in the state’s fight against Covid-19. The e-pass platform has been developed by our department in only two days of being assigned the task by the state relief commissioner. This efficient and transparent platform will be a great help for people who are stranded in Odisha,” said state IT secretary Manoj Mishra. Though the state labour department has been facilitating the return of migrant workers to various states, the online platform will be helpful for others like students, professionals and pilgrims stranded in Odisha. So far they were having to physically travel to the office of collectors, municipal commissioners and police to apply for passes. The state government recently assigned home secretary Sanjeev Chopra for implementation of a decentralised system for issue of passes through district and municipal administrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/e-passes-for-those-planning-to-move-out/articleshow/75608956.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Do not engage workers from Bapu Dham Colony, says UT adviser Manoj Parida||CHANDIGARH: With coronavirus cases on the rise in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, UT adviser Manoj Parida has appealed to industrialists and wholesale dealers not to engage workers from the area, even if they manage to sneak out of the containment zone. The adviser said, “As it is important to stop the virus spread, all the entry and exit points of Bapu Dhama Colony have been closed. Industrialists and wholesale traders are requested not to engage workers from the area till the lockdown lasts.” Sources said, “A few factory owners told the UT administration that some of their workers were residents of Bapu Dham Colony and reporting to work.” The adviser has also directed the police to deal strictly with those violating the containment zone rules. A resident of the colony told the TOI, “When vendors of essential items arrive in the colony, people turn out in large numbers and violate social distancing norms. While violating norms, they not only put their lives at risk, but also of their family members, relatives and neighbours.” Another resident of the colony said, “There are a number of one- and two-room houses in the colony, which defeat social distancing. People live in these small congested rooms with their joint families. The administration should gradually shift people with Covid-19-like symptoms to community centres, dharamshalas and bhawans.” UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday had directed the senior officers to focus on Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30-B and other containment zones. He had also instructed the director, health services, to start a special drive for screening and testing suspected cases in the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/do-not-engage-workers-from-bapu-dham-colony-adviser/articleshow/75611612.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: A Corona is born in times of Covid-19||SERAMPORE: Trinamool MP from Arambagh Aparupa Poddar gave birth to a baby girl at a nursing home in Hooghly’s Serampore early on Thursday. The MP and her husband, Md Shakir Ali, have named their newborn, Corona. The couple has another daughter, aged six. “The chaos over the virus will get over with time, but history will remember the word, ‘Corona’. The CM has asked after my wife’s health. She will also give our daughter her official name. Corona will be her nickname. I did not admit my wife to a Kolkata facility as hospitals there are under pressure. I am happy that our second child was born in this Serampore nursing home,” said Ali, a Trinamool councillor of Rishra Municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-corona-is-born-in-times-of-covid/articleshow/75611648.cms||Falguni Banerjee
May 8, 2020||Goa||Only 12 students per hall at Class X & XII public exams||Panaji: To ensure social distancing during the Class X and XII public exams, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Thursday said there will be only 12 students in each exam hall as against the earlier 25. This has led to an increase in the number of exam sub-centres. A new timetable for the exams was also issued. The Class X exam will begin on May 21 and all the main papers will be over on June 1. Exams for the three remaining Class XII papers will be held from May 20 to 22. In light of limited public transport availability, Goa Board chairperson Ramkrishna Samant said headmasters have been assigned the responsibility to ensure that Class X students from their respective schools reach the exam halls. “Most students are dropped and picked by their parents. But we have made it the responsibility of the school headmaster to assist students in case they have no other means to travel to and from the exam hall,” he said. The Goa Board, in its circular, said it is also the responsibility of the headmasters to inform parents that they have to be at least 200m away from the exam centres or sub-centres. Higher secondary school teachers will be engaged for smooth conduct of the Class X exam, while secondary school teachers will be roped in for the Class XII exam. Even non-teaching staff have to be made available during the exam, the board said. School PTA will also be involved if required. “Volunteers will be positioned at the entry points to further assist candidates to reach their respective blocks. Candidates will be allowed to leave the examination hall one-by-one block-wise at the end of the examination,” the board circular stated. The exam conductor appointed by the board has to ensure that a stall is set up at the centre with glucose, small, sealed water bottles, and mask and sanitisers. Exam blocks will be santisised before the exam starts and students will be allowed to carry transparent water bottles, sanitisers and masks inside the hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-12-students-per-hall-at-class-x-xii-public-exams/articleshow/75612356.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||April grant: UT releases Rs 35 crore for MC to pay salaries to staff||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has finally released the first grant of Rs 35 crore for the current financial year to the municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh. The grant is for April — recently, the UT had decided to give grant on monthly basis to the civic body. The UT has also made it clear to the civic body that the grant should be used to pay the salaries of the municipal employees. The salaries and wages of the MC’s employees is over Rs 40 crore per month and the civic body will have to manage rest of the amount on their own. According to sources, the MC will have to draw from its earnings to pay the rest of the salaries. “Since, the given money is meant for the salaries and wages, we have instructed all heads of departments not to send bills to the account branch for any kind of payments, except the emergency maintenance works. Every payment requires the written approval of the senior officers of the MC,” an official of the MC said. Paucity of funds is likely to affect development projects, said sources. “At present, our main focus is on the maintenance works, we have been asked not to prepare details of any project. In fact, some of the works that have been allotted in the past have not started yet and are not likely to be started in the near future too,” said an official of MC’s engineering department. Significantly, after the announcement of the financial grant to the UT administration by the ministry of finance in February, UT administration had announced Rs 425 crore financial aid to the civic body for the current financial year. But with tigtening of the budget for the Covid-19, at present MC is liable to get Rs 416 crore. Sources also said further reduction in the budget is likely and it will be a big challenge for the MC to manage its finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-gets-rs-35cr-from-admn-for-april-to-pay-salaries-to-staff/articleshow/75611630.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 8, 2020||Pune||MSRTC charges 18 students Rs 11,500 to reach Ahmednagar||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will charge people, who wish to return to their home districts using the service, for now. On Thursday, 18 stranded students were charged Rs 11,500, or approximately Rs 640 per person, to board a state transport bus from Pune to Ahmednagar. A private coaching centre in the city paid for the travel of the students, who were in the city preparing for the MPSC examination. MSRTC’s Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi told TOI, “We have received no instructions so far from the government on not charging a fare. The district collector had given us a no objection certificate and a list of students, who want to travel. One bus was booked for a non-stop ride from Pune to Ahmednagar. We did not receive instructions on providing them with food or water.” When contacted, state transport minister Anil Parab said, “In my capacity as chairman of the MSRTC, I have written to the chief minister for a waiver of inter-district travel charge. Unless the request is approved, we will continue to collect charges.” Parab said, “No individual travel is allowed by the MSRTC. A group of minimum 22 people is required to get a travel approval. We have adjusted the charges from Rs 56 per km to Rs 44 per km for now. Once the approval comes, no money will be charged.” Mahesh Bade, representative of the MPSC students’ rights organization, said, “The list of students was revised many times to ensure those travelling lived outside red zones. Anand Patil from a private institute paid the MSRTC for the travel. The students had to go through a medical examination before they could board the bus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-charges-18-students-rs-11-5k-to-reach-ahmednagar/articleshow/75612348.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Take over private hospitals to fight Covid-19: NGO writes to CM||Bhopal: ‘Madhya Pradesh government should enforce rules to ensure that private doctors resume their duties with immediate effect and on the lines of Andhra Pradesh, MP government should take over private hospitals. Nationalisation of hospital would reduce strained by shortage of hospital beds, doctors,’ stated NGO Jan Swasth Abhiyan (JSA) in a letter to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan.JSA also pointed out that Maharashtra government has taken measures, wherein private doctors have been directed to report on duty else their licence will be revoked. A top DME official, when contacted, did not comment on the matter. A representative of the NGO, Amulya Nidhi has cited failure of private medical college, RDGMC in Ujjain and demanded its takeover by the government. After the situation got out of control in the district, MoHFW appointed AIIMS Bhopal to mentor Ujjain district and private medical college for improving the situation. About 20 per cent complaints on COVID-19 helpline are related to medical issues. One of the worst-hit districts, Ujjain, with just 7 lakh population has death rate of 21 per cent with death toll rising every day. The death rate in Dewas is 27 per cent and in Khandwa, it is 12 per cent.“Health is a state subject. Madhya Pradesh Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Bill, 2019, gives the government leverage to take action. Outside the urban areas, health services related to COVID-19 need to be improved immediately,” said Nidhi. The NGO has a number of public health experts. He said that most of the deaths in city like Indore have taken place in private establishments.State government has identified a number of the private hospitals and medical colleges for COVID-19 care. However, the bulk of patients getting treatment and those critically ill are in government-run hospitals. The alarming aspect in the state is that COVID-19 has now spread to 35 out of 55 districts; the infection has spread in 9 new districts in just last 10 days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/take-over-private-hospitals-to-fight-covid-19-ngo-writes-to-cm/articleshow/75610564.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Man booked for killing dog in Pune||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Wednesday registered an offence against a 25-year-old man for brutally killing a stray dog around 8am on Wednesday. Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Dabir of the Bhosari police told TOI, “The man tied the dog to his motorcycle with a nylon rope and dragged it for a some distance, from the Kasarwadi crematorium to a restaurant nearby, till it died.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-killing-dog/articleshow/75612381.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Keeping tabs on bootleggers adds to cops’ headache||BHOPAL: With liquor shops opening in the surrounding districts of Bhopal, the city police have a new challenge at hand. Their task is to stop smuggling of liquor by bootleggers from these areas into the city. Although the roads entering the city were already sealed since the lockdown, city police have intensified vigil at the checkposts set up on the city outskirts, after these shops were opened, to control any illegal transportation of liquor. The problem for cops is that almost all the checkpoints were set up on main roads while the bootleggers have been using the rural and forest routes to smuggle liquor. Senior police officers maintained that police teams, along with excise department teams, are keeping a close watch on the city’s outskirts. Apart from checkposts on main roads, the police patrolling teams monitor activities in rural and forest areas on the city outskirts and takes action on any such information. A rise in the number of illegal liquor smuggling cases has been seen since lockdown as the liquor shops have been closed. The bootleggers used the opportunity and supplied liquor to addicts at 3-4 times the market rates. Since liquor shops will remain closed in the city, these bootleggers may smuggle liquor from neighbouring districts and supply it in Bhopal. A senior police officer said that Bhopal is geographically connected to the Mandideep from Misrod and some part of Kolar police station area. Similarly, the jurisdiction of Kolar police station connects Bilkisganj in Sehore district while Ratibad connects to Bilkisganj. Jurisdiction of Sukhi Sewania police station connects Diwanganj in Raisen district while Khajuri area connects Sehore. The other areas on the outskirts include Gandhi Nagar, Parwalia, Berasia and others which connect to neighbouring districts where liquor shops have been opened. The officer said that the bootleggers were already smuggling liquor, including IMFL and countrymade liquor from surrounding districts, and made their hideouts in forest and rural areas on the city outskirts. Their agents took supply from them and supplied the liquor in the city, but they also ran out of supply. Now that liquor shops are opened in neighbouring districts, these people may bring liquor from there and supply it in the city. DIG Irshad Wali said that city police have been maintaining constant monitoring on vehicles entering the city and outskirt areas. Twelve checkpoints have been set up on city outskirts, where police along with excise department teams have been deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/keeping-tabs-on-bootleggers-adds-to-cops-headache/articleshow/75610603.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Pay power bill at 4 cash counters in Mohali||tnnMohali: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make all the 515 cash collection centres in the state operational from May 8 (between 9am and 2pm) for consumers to deposit their bills while strictly adhering to the health protocols.In Mohali, consumers can deposit bills at four cash collection counters set up at plot number A-2, Industrial Area, Phase 1. Meter readers too will resume operations. Permission was also granted for replacement of faulty and defective meters.However, Mohali PSPCL executive engineer said there would be no release of new connections or extension of load, as public dealing was not to be done. For replacement of meters and bill correction, consumers can lodge complaint on 1912, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pay-power-bill-at-4-cash-counters-in-mohali/articleshow/75611666.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Home quarantined being checked in Pkl Sector 15||Panchkula: A day after the Panchkula administration opened most parts of Sector 15 containment zone, 10 teams of the health department were deputed in the area on Thursday for screening and taking samples of suspected cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “To ensure no other person in the containment zone gets affected, 10 teams have started screening the home quarantined. On Day 1, they screened 13,951 persons and took samples of 139. We do not want to take any risk. Therefore, screening and tests are our priority,” the CMO added. Six other teams are going door to door in the populated areas of the district, like Khark Mangoli, Sector 12, Barwala and Kalka. Apart from this, 12 medical mobile units have checked 35,694 persons and 95,438 have been checked by door-to-door visits till now. Teams of Asha workers have also screened over 1,66,180 persons in the district.The department till now has collected 2,210 samples, of which 2,049 tested negative, results of 84 were awaited and 15 were resent for test. Of 18 positive cases in Panchkula to date, only one is active. About home quarantine, the CMO said, “385 persons are under surveillance and 374 are home quarantined. As many as 71 labourers are quarantined at shelter homes across the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/home-quarantined-being-checked-in-pkl-sector-15/articleshow/75611672.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||ATM handlers, railway staff want screening||AHMEDABAD: With the swift rise in Covid-19 cases and government efforts to battle the pandemic, categories of workers like railway employees and ATM van handlers fear their screening is necessary but their demands are not being heeded. Railway employees who interact with migrants to help them reach their native places and also handle parcels of essential goods, as well as personnel like ATM cash fillers, security agency staffers etc have raised demands for being screened and tested. They fear not only for themselves, but that they may turn into super spreaders if their testing is neglected. A few days ago, the video of an ATM van staffer who fills cash in ATMs had gone viral. He expressed apprehensions that he may get infected by Covid-19 as his employer didn’t provide any sanitizer. “During this pandemic, we have been trying to supply cash to various ATMs so that people do not face problems. But neither the banks nor our security agencies have been providing any help. Neither we nor our vehicles are sanitized,” said the person, who works at a private security agency, in the video. “If any of us is found Covid-19 positive, then people who withdraw money from the ATMs will get infected,” he said, while four of his colleagues stood beside him. The employees also said that whenever they tried to raise this issue before the bank or security agencies, they were threatened with sacking. Similarly, Railways employees deployed to move essential goods and migrants in special trains have also demanding regular testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atm-handlers-rly-staff-want-screening/articleshow/75611736.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Hurt leopard rescued near Morni by wildlife officials||PANCHKULA: Residents of Tikari village in Morni found an injured leopard in the 15-foot empty water tank in an under construction house in the village on Thursday morning. According to sub-inspector (SI) Maan Singh, incharge Morni police post, they received the information at around 10.30am regarding a leopard lying inside the water tank of a house, roaring in pain. Soon after the call, a team of cops and wildlife department Morni rushed to the spot. The team realised that the leopard’s right leg was injured and his right paw was missing. The wildlife doctor, with the help of his team, managed to take out leopard after nearly four hours of struggle, at around 2.30 pm. The wildlife doctor gave medication to the leopard on the spot and took the male leopard to the wild animals care unit in Morni. Wildlife officials, said, “The leopard will be released in the jungle area of Morni once his foot heals soon. His right paw could not be traced.” Meanwhile, the roar of the leopard had created a major panic among the domestic animals of the village. One of the villagers said, “Due to Leopard’s roar, our animals were trying to run away from their sheds. Villagers were also afraid. Nobody dared to go near the house where the leopard was stuck.” Wildlife officials said the leopard might have injured itself while crossing some barbed wire near the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hurt-leopard-rescued-near-morni-by-wildlife-officials/articleshow/75611685.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||IIT Goa works on test to detect asymptomatic patients||Panaji: As the number of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients is increasing across the country, two professors from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, are in the process of devising a rapid test to detect such cases. Blood samples of the patients are used in this test instead of nasal and throat swabs. The test, using a handheld device, will detect the anti-body that is produced in a patient’s body to fight the novel coronavirus. Researchers said the test is expected to be ready for use in a year’s time. It is being designed to detect even minor traces of the anti-body in the patient’s blood, making it more accurate than the current rapid tests. “Samples will be tested using an electro-chemical sensing device,” said IIT Goa faculty member Bidhan Pramanick. “The government-approved rapid test is enzyme-linked. For it, samples like throat swabs etc. are needed. They are extracting the RNA and then testing whether there is presence of virus or not,” he said. “Our approach is different. When virus attacks our body, it produces some anti-body that will remain present in the blood. So, we will take the blood and separate cell and plasma, and then check for the presence of the particular anti-body corresponding to the coronavirus attack,” said Pramanick, from the electrical engineering department. Other than helping to detect asymptomatic patients, this method of testing will also be more effective to check if a patient is free of Covid-19, he said. “For the device, we will be using the standard electro-chemical analysis or sensing. But our advantage is that we will be using some electrode, which will be of low cost. And this process is very fast. Presently, you have to wait for at least 1-2 hours. Even a small presence of anti-body can also be detected by our method,” said Pramanick. The Goa IIT researchers are also working with collaborators from IIT Kharagpur to make the prototype. “Sensing part, we have started working on with an initial grant from our institute. The complete device and testing may take a year to be ready. Of course, we will require the necessary approvals from ICMR,” said Pramanick, who is carrying out the work along with Raja Mitra, from the chemistry department. Mitra said their aim is to make the test high sensitivity and low cost, using bio-compatible glassy carbon as an electro-chemical sensor. The portable handheld potentiostat with one micro-Ampere sensitivity being developed at IIT Goa is also capable of sending recorded signals to the nearby devices wirelessly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-goa-works-on-test-to-detect-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/75612450.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil calls upits retired sanitation chief||Ahmedabad: On Thursday, K K Brahmbhatt, a retired superintendent for sanitation and housekeeping at Civil Hospital, was appointed temporarily to handle the scenario during Covid-19 situation, said senior Civil Hospital authorities. With the Civil Hospital having the biggest 1700-bed set up for the Covid-19 patients in Gujarat, the authorities are approaching experienced staff members to handle the epidemic more effectively, said sources. “The doctors are being pooled in from other hospitals for the Covid-19 duty in Ahmedabad – one of the epicentres of the epidemic nationally – but the major issue remains with the housekeeping and sanitation work. Thus, it was decided to take the services of the former personnel who have witnessed and handled epidemics in the past such as swine flu in the same premises,” said a senior official. Officials said a few other names are also under consideration to be brought back for a limited time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-calls-upits-retired-sanitation-chief/articleshow/75611724.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||30 quarantined after inmate tests Covid +ve at Agra central jail||AGRA: At least 14 prisoners were quarantined in a separate barrack at Agra central jail on Thursday after an inmate was confirmed Covid-19 positive on Wednesday evening. Besides, 16 jail staff were sent to home quarantine. The health department has started taking samples of all the prisoners and staffers who had come in contact with the infected prisoner. Found guilty under IPC section 506(2) (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 302 (punishment for murder), 60-year-old Virendra Kumar, a resident of Jhansi, was shifted to Agra central jail on December 14, 2019. According to jail officials, Virendra Kumar was admitted to the emergency ward of the SN Medical College (SNMC) here on May 3. He had high blood pressure and suffered a brain stroke. His samples were collected and sent for lab testing on May 4. He was confirmed Covid-19 positive on the evening of May 6. VK Singh, senior superintendent of Agra central jail, said, “Since March, no visitor is being allowed to meet a prisoner. Besides, Virendra Kumar was not sent out of the prison before March 3, when he was admitted to the SN Medical College. We have requested the health department for re-testing the prisoner for Covid-19. Besides, all the prisoners and staffers who had come in his contact will also be tested. We have been ensuring regular sanitization in all the barracks and other parts of the jail premises. Suitable cleanliness is being maintained. Besides, social distancing protocol is strictly followed." According to sources, the prisoner may have got infected at the government hospital. Screening, testing and treatment of Coivid-19 patients takes place at SNMC. Earlier, 12 staff members of the hospital, including three junior doctors and a senior resident doctor, had tested Covid-19 positive. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “A total of 14 prisoners have been quarantined at a different place inside the central jail. Besides, more than 12 staffers who had come in the contact with the prisoner have been directed to remain in home quarantine. In the afternoon, the health department team started taking samples at the central jail. Re-sampling of the infected prisoner has been done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/30-quarantined-after-inmate-tests-covid-ve-at-agra-central-jail/articleshow/75609068.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 8, 2020||Pune||Credai survey shows realty sector still to get going||PUNE: Developers are facing multiple problems to restart work even after permissions came by, a survey of 216 realtors by industry body Credai Pune Metro has revealed. “Findings of the survey indicated that a majority of the developers are facing problems like unavailability of construction material...problems faced by technical staff and site engineers in going to the construction sites,” Suhas Merchant, president, Credai Pune Metro, said. According to the realtors, the work that needs to be completed before monsoon is already beyond schedule and this confusion is adding to the delay. “The material supply chain will have to resume their own manufacturing and deliver in order for the restart to be effective...The government should have thought of e-registrations when the lockdown began. Now, seven weeks into the lockdown, an application for the same is being developed and we are unfortunately playing catch up, instead of being ahead of the curve,” Rohit Poddar, joint secretary, NAREDCO Maharashtra, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/credai-survey-shows-realty-sector-still-to-get-going/articleshow/75612392.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Finally, problem tigress N1 caught||Nagpur: The problem tigress N-1 from North Bramhapuri range, which entered Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) buffer zone, was finally captured on Thursday evening. “The tigress eluded rapid rescue teams (RRTs) from Pench and Nagzira tiger reserves for the last 10 days. The teams had missed target on 4-5 occasions, but the tigress was finally captured at Bagadbandh forest area,” forest officials said. The 3-year-old tigress was shifted to Nagzira wildlife sanctuary through Mangezari gate. It is likely to be shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre on Friday. For the past few days the big cat was concentrated in one of the nullah near a canal which made it easy for the team to capture the animal. The tigress has been blamed for killing five persons — three in Bramhapuri division and two in NNTR buffer. N-1 had killed 3 persons on November 14 and December 24, 2019, and one more on January 26, 2020 in Bramhapuri division. The first order to capture the problem tigress was issued on January 10, 2020, but the teams failed to capture her. The tigress travelled over 100km to reach NNTR landscape and had killed two people in an interval of 20 days. The first victim was Arun Bhalavi, a resident of Dhanutola, who was mauled on March 29 morning, when he had ventured into the forest to collect leaves to feed goats. On April 18, Anita Tumsare (32), a resident of Mangezari on the outskirts of Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary, was killed by the same tigress when she had gone to collect mahua flowers. For the last 20 days there were no attacks. “Apart from the tigress being problematic, there was also political pressure to capture N-1 to avoid more human kills,” said officials. As per NTCA protocol, a committee was set up and after looking into the record of the tigress it recommended capturing the animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-problem-tigress-n1-caught/articleshow/75613105.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC takes over eight private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: In order to ensure that the Covid-affected people get hospitals and asymptomatic patients have sufficient quarantine facilities the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation took over eight private hospitals with a capacity of 800 beds and also 60 hotels with a capacity of 3,000 rooms. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, said that these eight private hospital have been designated as Covid-19 hospitals and were taken over under the Epidemic Diseases Act . These hospital areas in Chandkheda, Science City, Kubernagar, Bapunagar, Maninagar and other areas of the city. For the treatment of asymptomatic patients the AMC had on Wednesday directed all deputy municipal commissioners to take over three and four star hotels. On Thursday, Gupta, who has been appointed as overall in-charge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that orders were being issued by AMC to take over 60 private hotels with 3,000 beds. These private hotel will be will be designated as Covid care centres.. These hotels are being requisitioned under Epidemic Diseases Act for providing air-conditioned facilities without taking any charges from the patients in different zones. The cost of such treatment will be borne by AMC. Earlier, the AMC had extended such facilities to six hotels, but the room charges of Rs 3,000 per day were to be borne by the patients. The new team headed by Gupta and in-charge commissioner Mukesh Kumar has decided to extend the facilities free to patients. Earlier, only those patients who were corona warriors were given free lodging at hotels and other non-hospital facilities. About the screening of vegetable vendors and grocery shop staff the AMC said their screening is on in each zone and ward, and the screening of 1,409 such vendors was completed on Thursday, May 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-takes-over-8-private-hospitals/articleshow/75611696.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Hubballi||Three test positive in Kalaburagi; one more in Dharwad||DHARWAD/KALABURAGI: Thursday saw three more cases of Covid-19 reported in Kalaburagi and one in Dharwad. A 35-year-old resident of Kolikere, near Navalur Agasi of Hosayallapur area in Dharwad, tested positive, taking the tally to two in the city and 12 in the district. The administration immediately took steps to make Kolikere a containment zone again. A person from the same locality had tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from Perth in Australia and discharged after recovering from the disease. The man who tested positive on Thursday is designated as P-705. A chilli trader, he also drives autorickshaw. He has no travel history and had approached the district civil hospital after developing Influenza Like Illness (ILI). After a few days there, he spent eight hours in a private hospital in Saptapur. Doctors referred him to KIMS where he was admitted on May 1. He was operated there for peritonitis by three doctors. Two nurses and a ward boy were also present in the operation theatre. Sources said after he tested positive, 13 doctors, two nurses and a ward boy were quarantined. The operation theatre has been disinfected and sealed. P-705 had come in contact with 28 people, including two of family members. All of them have been quarantined. The district administration is tracing his primary and secondary contacts. Three more positive took the tally to 67 in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Six people have died and 29 recovered, leaving 32 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. The three fresh cases include a 35-year-old man, a 36-year-old woman and 41-year-old man. The 35-year-old man (P-697), is a resident of Qamar Colony who had come in direct contact with P-642. The 36-year-old woman (P-698) and 41-year-old man (P-699) are residents of Mominpur who came in contact with P-641.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3-test-positive-in-kalaburagi-one-more-in-dharwad/articleshow/75613049.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Police draw flak for posting ghost meme||BHUBANESWAR: Veteran Congress MLA Suresh Rautray on Thursday flayed the commissionerate police for posting a meme on Twitter that branded those roaming between 7 pm and 7 am as ghosts. Following the Centre’s lockdown guidelines, the commissionerate police banned non-essential activities and movement of people on non-emergency works between 7 pm and 7 am till May 17. Only ghosts come out uninvited between 7 pm and 7 am, read a meme with images of two cops in front of a black-clad skeleton, identified as bhoot. “We abide by the government lockdown guidelines. Many of us, including MLAs, ministers, government officers, doctors and journalists move after 7 pm on emergency works. Are we bhoots? The commissionerate police should not have used such a meme,” Rautray said. Though people in large numbers appreciated the police’s efforts in sensitizing people about the lockdown restrictions through humourous cartoons and memes, many criticized the ghost meme in particular. “No city wants to get Ghost City titles, as we better know when Bhubaneswar got this title in 1999 (super cyclone) & 2019 (Cyclone Fani) but this time police giving Smart City the Ghost title is really surprising,” tweeted Piyush Rout, a citizen. Others hailed the commissionerate police’s meme on Sholay to educate people about social distancing. “We liked the meme of Sholay fame, describing Jay, Veeru, Basanti, Thakur and Gabbar all staying home. But the bhoot meme is an insult to the emergency service providers,” said Murali Behera, a trader. The commissionerate police said the meme was not intended to humiliate anyone. “I stand by the creative team designing memes & posters as volunteers to take Covid messages to people through social media. As regards to our respect for emergency & health workers, that is & will never be in question,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/police-draw-flak-for-posting-ghost-meme/articleshow/75609095.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali liquor vends see tepid response on day one||Mohali: On day one of resumption of liquor sales in Mohali, the city vends saw poor response on Thursday, with only a few buyers visiting the outlets. Circles marked for maintaining social distancing could be seen empty at most vends, awaiting people to step their feet into those.The vend owners alleged the poor response was due to the liquor vends close to the borders in Chandigarh, which had stolen the sales of Mohali. Chandigarh resumed liquor sales two days before Mohali did.One of the liquor vend owners said, “Our sales have been always dented by the vends located in Chandigarh adjoining Mohali borders. The huge rate difference eats up our sales and the same has happened even on the first day of opening of vends here.”Phase X vend seller said, “We are getting customers, who are demanding only one or two bottles, whereas after 40 days’ lockdown, we were expecting that people would take away cartons, which would boost our sales.”The Mohali district administration allowed opening of liquor vends after six weeks, from 7am to 3pm. But, unlike in Chandigarh, where people had gathered in huge numbers to get liquor, not a single vend in Mohali witnessed such huge rush.Liquor shops have not been allowed to resume business in containment areas, like Jawahapur village in Dera Bassi and Nayagaon.BOXNo plastic money, pleaseCustomers in Zirakpur area complained that the liquor vends are refusing to accept money through cards or other ways of online payment. Quite a few them said since they did not have enough cash with them, they had to return empty handed. Manish Kumar, resident of a housing society in Zirakpur, said, “I was not carrying enough cash to buy the stuff, but liquor seller declined to accept money through debit or credit cards. I had to find an ATM to get cash to pay him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-liquor-vends-see-tepid-response-on-day-one/articleshow/75611729.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Saurashtra on the edge over infection due to influx||RAJKOT: The district administration in Saurashtra is jittery fearing import of coronavirus cases into the district with the permission for intrastate travel granted by the state government. Jamnagar, which had only one Covid case till now reported five new cases in the past one week. Devbhumi Dwarka district also reported its first instances of infection – all due to influx of people from highly infected zones. The districts of Saurashtra including Amreli, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Surendranagar are facing huge influx of migrants in the past couple of days, a majority of them coming in from Ahmedabad and Surat, the two most infected cities in the state. While the homebound migrants, many of them jobless and facing uncertainties, are wanting to return to the safer zone, the authorities are spending sleepless nights fearing spread of the dreaded virus from these new entrants from the red zones. After Amreli, Jamnagar is the second district to face major influx of migrants from the neighbouring districts. Officially, the district is receiving nearly 2,000 people every day from its four checkposts. After screening, the administration quarantines all of them. On Thursday, Jamnagar district collector, Ravi Shankar, passed an order to requisite all government, semi-government and private schools to turn them into quarantine centres. He also ordered requisition of all halls run by various communities, besides government and private educational hostels equipped with available facility. Talking to TOI, Shankar said, “The situation is very tough. Community spread in Jamnagar has not started yet, but once these outsiders start pouring in, in huge numbers, then there is a bigger threat of community spread.” He further said that the government opened the district borders for those who were stranded because of the lockdown, but we have noticed that many people have shifted back to Jamnagar, bag and baggage. In the wake of the intrastate travel order, various districts have expressed their apprehensions that the spread of Covid in villages at the community level will make it extremely difficult to handle as there is not enough medical facility available at the taluka level to combat the pandemic situation. Similar is the fear that Amreli is experiencing. The district is expecting an influx of nearly 1.5 lakh people in next two three weeks. However, it has capacity to accommodate 12,000 people in the quarantine facility. The remaining people will have to be quarantined in their homes, said Amreli district collector, Ayush Oak. Talking to TOI, Oak said, “The bigger problem is that we don’t know which person has come from a containment zone. Amreli natives living in Surat have all documents from the district only. This increases the risk of infected asymptomatic person entering the district. We will now make them apply online and self declare that they are not from containment areas as a preventive measure.” Surendrangar district collector K Rajesh, meanwhile, is worried about illegal entrants. “A bank employee, who entered illegally in Malvan area, showed symptoms. We had to test 19 people who came in his contact and ultimately waste limited resources for the negligence of one person,” he lamented. If that’s not all, authorities in Saurashtra are also facing severe staff crunch while handling the massive influx. A few officers have voiced their opinions that like in election time, government should issue orders to rope in central government staff, all school teachers for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-on-the-edge-over-infection-due-to-influx/articleshow/75609101.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Pre-test likely for foreign returnees||BHUBANESWAR: Following the Centre’s decision to evacuate Indians stuck abroad, the Odisha government is likely to come up with a set of guidelines before allowing Odias to enter the state. While there’s no clarity on the number of people set to return to Odisha from the Gulf and other countries, the state government wants them to undergo mandatory registration as well Covid-19 testing and quarantine before entering Odisha. “We have recently received a standard operating procedure (SOP) from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), which is being examined by the state government. Based on the MHA guidelines, we will issue guidelines for the state,” said a senior government official. The issue was recently discussed during a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. The state government may request the Centre to test all foreign returnees before they reach Odisha. Several Odias are expected to return from some of the worst-affected countries like Italy, USA, UK and Canada. Many people from Kendrapada, Ganjam, Khurda and other coastal districts, who were engaged in blue-collar jobs in the Gulf countries, are also likely to return as part of the Centre’s evacuation plan. Odisha government had earlier made registration and 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all who returned to the state from abroad after March 3 midnight. A portal was developed for registration of such returnees while financial incentive was also announced on successful completion of home isolation. Nearly, 4,500 Odias who returned to the state after March 3 midnight from abroad, including chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s sister Gita Mehta, Puri king Dibyasingha Deb and his family and a senior bureaucrat had registered with the state government portal. Initially, many Covid-19 positive cases in Bhubaneswar, Bhadrak and Kalahandi had foreign travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pre-test-likely-for-foreign-returnees/articleshow/75609076.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally rises to 675, 3 die at SNMC||Agra: At least eight more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 675. Also, three Covid-19 positive patients died at SN Medical College. A 50-year-old local journalist succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. According to DM Agra Prabhu N Singh, “The victim tested corona positive on May 3.” They included a 11-year-old jaundice patient, resident of Tedi Bagiya locality, and a 65-year-old woman of Sikandar locality who was a kidney patient. Besides, a 63-year-old, resident of Kamla Nagar locality, who died on May 2 was found positive. The new cases which surfaced on Thursday included a 28-year-old resident of Dauki village who had returned to Agra from Delhi, a 32-year-old man of Tajganj locality, a pregnant woman admitted at the SN Medical College, and a 46-year-old businessman of Jagdishpura locality. The remaining cases are related to Lohamandi, Baluganj, Awas Vikas Colony, Jeevani Mandi, Ashok Nagar, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi and Panchkuiyan locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, out of the 675 cases in Agra, at least 90 cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts while 80 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts while 26 are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. So far, 28 vegetable sellers have been tested positive in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 296 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. At present, we have 42 active hotspots in the city. These are being closely monitored."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-rises-to-675-3-die-at-snmc/articleshow/75609077.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Leopard found dead in a well near Talegaon||AMRAVATI: A six-year-old male leopard was found dead in a well in Kekatpur forest near Talegaon Thakur town, about 40km from here, on Thursday. A farm chowkidar noticed the carcass this morning when he noticed foul smell coming out from the well. The matter was reported to Teosa forest department which rushed to the spot, summoned a rescue team and fished out the carcass from the well. The leopard is believed to have fallen in the well about three days back. With water sources in the forest drying out, the wildlife is coming towards towns in search of water. This has spread fear in the townsmen. The carcass was consigned to flames after doing a spot panchanama, forest sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-found-dead-in-a-well-near-talegaon/articleshow/75611747.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Special counters at border checkpoints to ‘fast forward’ returnees’ verification||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has opened special counters at interstate border checkpoints to facilitate the quick verification of the details of people returning from other states and their hassle-free entry to the home state. The fast-forward counters, as they have been named, will also help ease congestion at the border checkpoints. “We have opened the fast-forward counters for those returnees, who had already registered themselves and their vehicles’ details with the state government’s Covid-19 portal,” state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. The objective of setting up these fast-forward counters is to prevent the pre-registered returnees from facing harassment at the border checkpoints. “The checkpoints have been flooded with both registered and unregistered persons in vehicles. Those who were registered with the government portal were forced to stand in queues along with the non-registered returnees for verification. The fast-forward counters have been opened to segregate the registered returnees from the non-registered ones,” another transport official said. The other counters will expedite the on-the-spot registration of vehicles and returnees, who did not enrol themselves with the government’s Covid-19 portal. Sources said at least 400 persons (both registered and unregistered) from other states have been entering Odisha via 12 designated interstate border checkpoints following stringent verifications. The state government on Wednesday issued revised guidelines to police and transport officials to decongest the border checkpoints. “It has been observed that the registration of returnees, who have not pre-registered themselves with the government portal, is causing congestion at the border checkpoints. Therefore, the registration of individual returnees may not be insisted upon. However, the registration of vehicles with details of drivers, their driving licence number, total number of passengers travelling and final destinations is mandatory,” read a circular issued by special relief commissioner and additional chief secretary to government (disaster management) Pradeep Jena to the district administrations on Wednesday. The duplicate copies of vehicle entry passes will be printed. While the first copy of the pass will be affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle, the driver will carry the second copy of the pass and submit it to the officials at the destination reception centre. Drivers and conductors cannot allow passengers to alight anywhere other than the end destination where government officials would be waiting for them for verification. Upon violation, drivers and conductors will face legal action, the circular said. Notably, there had been some instances of returnees getting off he buses at random places, thereby making it difficult for the authorities to trace them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/spl-counters-at-border-checkpoints-to-fast-forward-returnees-verification/articleshow/75609107.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Activists livid as Tasmac shops welcome back tipplers with chairs, sunshades||Trichy: Even as beneficiaries of state and central government schemes had to brave the scorching sun while standing in serpentine queues to collect their due, tipplers were provided chairs and shamiana for shade as they waited in front of Tasmac wine shops in Trichy which reopened on Thursday. Several of them placed their sandals to mark their place in the queue as early as 8 am and waited for the shops to open. As the temperature soared, many became a bit restless, but the Tasmac administration responded quickly by arranging chairs and shamiana on rent. As the word spread, anti-liquor and social activists were livid and slammed the government machinery for its biased treatment of the people. “We have seen long queues in government hospitals, ration shops and other offices for availing of benefits. Nowhere have we seen chairs or shamianas. By arranging these for Tasmac customers, the government has shown that it respects drinkers more because of the revenue,” said social worker Paul Guna Loganath. Folk singer and anti-liquor activist S Kovan of Makkal Kalai Ilakkiya Kazhagam, who was jailed for his controversial lyrics against former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in 2018, was of the view that it was an attempt to keep the people under government control. “The government is very clear that people should not think on their own. Providing such facility to the tipplers shows the ‘culture’ of the government,” said Kovan. Another social worker, Manoj Dharmar, pointed out the callous attitude of many tipplers in not wearing masks while waiting in the queue. However, an association for the welfare of drinkers has come out in support of the care shown by the authorities. “Liquor shops reopened not because of our appeal. The government did it to push up the economy. Being the major contributors to the economy, we have the privilege to enjoy such facility of chairs and shamiyana,” said the founder-president of Madhu Kudippor Vizhippunarvu Sangam (tipplers’ welfare association) P Chellapandian. In Trichy, Tasmac opened 163 shops except 20 in the containment zones on Thursday. Tokens were issued on production of Aadhaar card at 10 am before selling the liquor. The Tasmac administration maintained the ration of one full bottle of liquor and one beer for a customer, but it could not maintain the age-based timing. A senior official said they had stocks for a week. The city police arrested around 20 activists of Makkal Adhikaram, an anti-liquor outfit, who demonstrated aganst the reopening of wine shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/activists-livid-as-tasmac-shops-welcome-back-tipplers-with-chairs-sunshades/articleshow/75611769.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Bootleggers kill partner in dry Wardha district||WARDHA: A 32-year-old illicit liquor seller was murdered by three other bootleggers after a quarrel over selling liquor near Karala village, some 5km from the city, on Thursday at around 12.30pm. Rahul Magar (32), a resident of Satoda village, which is close to the crime scene, met his three friends and ended up arguing over liquor sales, leading to a quarrel. Police station officer of Sawangi police station API Rewchand Singanjude said, “Offence is yet to be registered, we will arrest all three after registering the crime.” API Singanjude said the four met at a farm near the village, where one of them stabbed Rahul in the stomach with a knife. Villagers took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Liquor is prohibited in Wardha district, however all types of liquor is available. While groups of women in Satoda village have stopped production and sale of country liquor, illicit liquor sellers operate from Karala village. Sources said that this murder was due to conflict over liquor selling area. “There was a conflict between these groups over area where they can sell,” said a source. Police denied this, and said there was a fight over some monetary matter. Since a month police administration has been running a special washout drive to curb production and sale of country liquor. Offence had not been registered till the time of filing this report while police said they have identified all three accused and will arrest them after lodging the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bootleggers-kill-partner-in-dry-wardha-district/articleshow/75611834.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 8, 2020||Goa||Cabbies want dole of Rs 12k per month||Panaji: Taxi operators in the state have given a representation to the transport department demanding Rs 12,000 as monthly allowance till their businesses run at pre-lockdown status. The operators said that they have bank installments to pay but don’t have any business due to the lockdown. “Taxis receive maximum business from hotels and tourism in Goa. How can we resume operations if the hospitality industry itself is not active?” said Laxman Korgaonkar of the North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association.The association has also demanded relief in road tax, passenger tax, renewal of vehicle permit, renewal of authorisations, renewal of driving licence, fitness certificate, PUC certificate, among others, until tourism resumes in the state. There are around 12,000 taxis registered in the state under the directorate of transport. “We cannot give out any financial support; it is up to the government to decide. We have forwarded the representation to the government ,” a transport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabbies-want-dole-of-rs-12k-per-month/articleshow/75747776.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||Ambulance carrying migrants from Delhi to UP seized||Agra: Mathura police on Thursday seized a private ambulance for illegally transporting 18 migrant labourers, including five children, from Delhi to UP’s Raebareli district during lockdown. According to police, the ambulance driver broke the barrier at Kotwan border in a bid to escape but was caught.Chhatta Circle officer Jagdish Kali Raman said an FIR is being registered against the driver under section 188 IPC for violating prohibitory orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ambulance-carrying-migrants-from-delhi-to-up-seized/articleshow/75609104.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||Delhi’s vegetable vendor tests +ve for Covid-19 in home town Mainpuri||Agra: A migrant worker, who worked as a vegetable vendor in Delhi and returned home on May 2, tested positive for Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) in Mainpuri on Thursday. With this new case, Mainpuri, now has two Covid-19 infected patients, including a pregnant woman. Both the patients are presently under treatment at Bhogaon’s Covid L1 ward.Confirming this, Mainpuri district magistrate, Mahendra Bahadur Singh, said that so far the district has had 11 infected patients of which eight have recovered and one had died in Safai PGI during the treatment. He said that the 25-year-old vegetable vendor’s village, Nagla Gurbaksha, has been sealed and sanitisation work is being done. “The youth was supplying water bottles earlier but due to lockdown, he started working as a vegetable vendor before coming to Mainpuri,” said the DM.He added that the contacts of the two infected persons are also being traced and their samples for tests are being collected. However, the youth’s family members, including his mother and siblings, have been quarantined as per the protocol.According to health officials, the youth got injured in an accident while coming back to his home town. Hence, after two days of his arrival, he took treatment from a local quack. The DM directed the health officials to register an FIR against the quack, as he was not authorised to provide treatment to anyone in the district. However, the FIR had not been registered till the filing of this report.Additional SP, OP Singh, said that the quack admitted that he did bandaged the wounds of the youth and provided treatment. He said the health department will quarantine him and his helpers too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delhis-vegetable-vendor-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-home-town-mainpuri/articleshow/75609112.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government to take roadshow route to tourism revival||BHUBANESWAR: The state government is gearing up to revive the Covid-hit tourism sector and has planned to hold roadshows across the country after the lockdown is lifted to woo domestic travellers. Senior officials, including chief secretary Asit Tripathy and tourism secretary Vishal Dev, on Thursday discussed strategies to bring the tourism sector back on track. The sector, which was already reeling from the onslaught of Cyclone Fani in May last year, has received a body blow in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is yet to estimate the financial loss incurred by this sector in the state. Keeping in mind the alarming Covid-19 situation across the world, Tripathy laid stress on the revival of domestic tourism in the first phase. The chief secretary directed the tourism department to float packages for promoting intra-state tourism and woo private investments in the hospitality and tourism sector. “Once the situation improves and the lockdown is lifted, we expect to organise roadshows after July in major cities of the neighbouring states and in tier-II cities across the country to attract domestic tourists. Itineraries for the road trips from destinations like Kolkata, Ranchi, Visakhapatnam, Raipur, Bilaspur, Durg-Bhilai, Jamshedpur and Bokaro are being developed. We will focus on resurrecting international tourism after assessing the Covid-19 situation later,” Dev said. The tourism secretary said a special campaign will be taken up to promote state tourism through Odia cuisine and organizing Odia food festivals across six metros along with roadshows. In the meeting, the officials decided to improve infrastructure at the Rambha and Satpada clusters in Chilika Lake, the Bhitarkanika National Park, ensure the Chandrabhaga beachfront and Talsari beachfront developments. “We will form a taskforce to assess the impact of Covid-19 on Odisha tourism involving key stakeholders from hotels, restaurants, resorts, tour operators, adventure sports, home-stays and boat operators. After the lockdown is lifted, we plan to liaison with financial institutions for all possible support to the affected industry players,” Dev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-bid-to-revive-tourism-through-roadshows-after-lockdown/articleshow/75609143.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 8, 2020||Goa||Green Zone Goa plays host to ‘well connected’ visitors||PANAJI: On May 1, when the tiniest state was officially declared a Green Zone, there was a sigh of relief not just among the Goans stranded outside the state, but all those “well connected” people who had packed their bags and wanted to move out of their Red and Orange zones to the safe haven of Goa. After over a month of lockdown, as the Centre allowed movement of stranded people, leaving the decision in the hands of the states to facilitate their transit, it was those who were “well connected” to be the first to enter the state. A quick glance at the number of people at facility quarantine shows that it has shown a steady increase from just 38 people when the state was declared a Green Zone on May 1 to 229 people a week later. “They travel in their own vehicles and after a few days of quarantine are free to enjoy at their second home,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Most of these vehicles, he said, have north India registrations including Delhi. The official said these “well connected” people used the guise of “stranded residents” to enter Goa. “If you look at the numbers, you will see that the number of people placed in facility quarantine has been increasing every day and has now crossed 200,” the official said. After being placed in facility quarantine, they are tested for Covid-19 and those who test negative, are sent home. He said the moment these people reach the facility, they want to be tested and demand their results, so that they could head home. “They are getting free tests done. If they want to do it in designated private lab, they will have to shell out Rs 4,500,” he said. The virology laboratory at Goa Medical College (GMC) has a capacity to conduct 150-200 tests per day. Besides the tests, the other problem being faced by the officials is their never-ending demands for food of their choice and better facilities including an airconditioned room. Whether it is Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) residencies that have been converted into quarantine facilities or private hotels taken over for the purpose, not all rooms have airconditioning. “If one person is given a room with AC, then others start complaining. On arrival at the quarantine facility, they place their requests as if they have walked into a starred hotel and will pay the bill before going home,” he said. All these “well connected” people are making free use of the facilities, the official said. At least 1,000 sailors are expected to reach Goa very soon in addition to those abroad who are planning to return. “More rooms will be needed for quarantining them and there is a serious threat that if these people continue to make use of their connections and enter Goa, the state may run out of rooms,” he said. “We have messy days ahead if proper protocol is not followed and meddling from the top doesn’t stop,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/green-zone-goa-plays-host-to-well-connected-visitors/articleshow/75612489.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic body to freeze development projects worth over Rs 100 crore||KOLHAPUR: Development projects worth over Rs 100 crore proposed for the current financial year by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be affected as civic body’s revenue has declined sharply due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The state government has decided to cut down on expenses by delaying new projects and giving priority to the projects and schemes that are already underway. The government has asked the civic bodies to adopt the same approach. Accordingly, the civic body has decided to delay the development works proposed in the budget and focus on essential things like water supply, sanitation, health, education, salaries and pension. Around Rs 240 crore is spent annually on salaries and pensions, while Rs 70 crore is spent on essential things. Around Rs 100 crore had been kept aside by the civic body for various development works, including Mahalaxmi Temple development plan, developing commercial markets, parking lots, roads and e-governance. Most of these projects have been sanctioned by the state government and part of the expenses will have to be shared by the civic body. Sanjay Sarnaik, chief accountant of the KMC, said, "As per directions of the state government we are going to adopt some measures to ensure that money is spend only on essential things. Since lockdown we have generated only Rs 1.20 crore through taxes. We have started online collection of taxes and are providing part payment options as many people are out of jobs. The works proposed by us, for which we have to share funds, will be kept aside till the time revenue generation does not get back on track." The only relief for the KMC is the Local Body Tax (LBT) compensation grants of Rs 12 crore released by the state government. However, it too is likely to be cut down next month since the government has cut down the expenses by 77% for the financial year 2020-21. No new recruitments will take place and the KMC is likely to cut salaries of the staff if the situation continues to remain the same. The bus transport system of KMC has recorded zero revenue for the past two months, but the salaries and pensions of the staff are made regularly. "We have set aside Rs 8 crore for the transport system. Most of these funds are utilised for salaries and pensions. Now, we may have to cut down on these grants if the situation continues. Even if the transport service resumes the passenger count will not be the same. In such scenario the losses are likely to go up," Sarnaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-body-to-freeze-devpt-projects-worth-over-rs-100cr/articleshow/75609129.cms||Abhijeet Patil
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: More Covid-19 centres likely to be established in district||KOCHI: As hundreds of thousands of Keralites are expected to return home in the coming weeks from abroad and other states, the district administration and the health department have taken measures to increase the number of Covid-19 treatment centres. Government Medical College, Ernakulam, is the only Covid treatment centre in the district now and preparations are underway to convert more hospitals into Covid-19 centres. Facilities will be arranged at PVS Hospital and the taluk hospital at Karuvelipady to convert them into Covid hospitals. A convention centre near the airport and a private medical college will also be turned into Covid centres. Officials with the health department said new Covid centres will be opened in the district depending on the number of coronavirus cases. “We expect only a section of those coming from abroad to test positive for Covid-19. Those who are asymptomatic can be sent to facilities arranged by the government while those with symptoms can be sent to hospitals. All those returning home will be tested for Covid-19. Only those who test positive for the disease will require treatment at Covid hospitals,” an official with the health department said. Only 2,150 NRIs are expected to arrive in Kochi on the 10 flights specially operated by the Union government as part of the first phase of evacuation. Among them, only a small number will be belonging to the district. So, the authorities do not think more facilities need to set up for accommodating the NRIs. But as many as 1 lakh Keralites living in other states also have registered with Norka for returning home. A sizeable chunk of them are expected to be Ernakulam natives. They will also have to be accommodated in the quarantine facilities and hospitals in the district. Authorities have already ramped up facilities at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam. “We are planning to open an ICU with 40 beds in a couple of days,” said Ganesh Mohan, resident medical officer, Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Similarly, a four-floor gynaecology and neonatology block has been set up for Covid patients and suspects. “Separate wards and diagnostic machines will be set up for both the groups,” Ganesh Mohan said. “As of now, there are 30 bath-attached isolation rooms in the hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-covid-19-centres-likely-to-be-established-in-district/articleshow/75609155.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
May 8, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Sisters set to reunite with parents in Rajasthan after 52 days||HUBBALLI: Ten-year-old Romu Kumari and her sister Posu, 7, will be reunited with their parents after 52 days as the lockdown kept the family apart — the siblings staying with a relative here and the parents in Rajasthan. Moved by their story shared on social media, the district administration arranged for the children to travel to Sirohi in Rajasthan by car with two people accompanying them. The journey of more than 1,300km is expected to take about 26 hours, with a halt in Surat. They are likely to reach on Friday or Saturday. The girls’ father, Talasaram Bhilvas, runs a Rajasthani chat centre in Durgadbail in Hubballi. While Talasaram has been in Hubballi for 10-14 years, his wife Manju Devi and children moved in January this year as the family decided to settle here. On March 16, Talasaram and his wife had to return to their native village, Bag in Sirohi district, for a funeral. They left Romu and Posu with a relative in Hubballi, promising to be back soon. To their shock, a week later, the PM had announced a nationwide lockdown, and all public transport came to a halt. “We did not bring the children with us as it is a long journey and the tickets are expensive,” said Manju Devi. “We have been speaking to them over phone daily since we came here. They have been crying and asking us to come to Hubballi soon. We tried to get permission to travel but failed and were wondering what to do since the lockdown has been extended till May 17. I’m very relieved and happy that they are coming to us now.” “We were very sad and Posu was crying most of the time,” said Romu, who studies in Class 2. “We used to play on the terrace to pass the time. We are very happy to go home to our parents finally.” Sangam Hanji, a social worker, posted an account of the family’s ordeal on social media and sought help from district administration. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan arranged for transport and deputed tahsildar Shasidhar Madyal to ensure the family was reunited. “Pass arrangements have been made after consulting with officials in Rajasthan. I was concerned about their safety and care during the long journey so asked for a woman to accompany them. Fruits and other refreshments for the journey have also been provided,” the DC said. “My friend Ramesh agreed to drop the children to Rajasthan and come back. After the district authorities requested that a woman also accompany them, Ramesh’s brother’s wife Bhavana stepped forward,” Hanji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sisters-set-to-reunite-with-parents-in-rajasthan-after-52-days/articleshow/75611808.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 8, 2020||Agra||NGT seeks report from Mathura DM on Yamuna riverfront in Vrindavan||Agra: In a bid to curb violation of environmental laws, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on May 5 directed the district magistrate (DM) of Mathura to submit an action taken report on the alleged illegal constructions raised on the Yamuna riverfront in Vrindavan. A bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, directed the DM to submit the report via email by August 31. The tribunal’s order came after Mathura-Vrindavan Development Authority informed it that the area was in control of the irrigation department and that no construction was permitted there. However, in the report, they have admitted that a few temporary huts have been constructed in the area. The report stated, “The Public Works Department (PWD) had started construction of a semi-circle bridge near Keshi Ghat which was removed on the orders of the Allahabad High Court. Earlier, a temple was constructed illegally against which proceedings have been initiated. Temporary huts are removed from time to time.”The tribunal noted that the photographs annexed with the report do show constructions which may call for further action. Calling for an imperative plan, the NGT said, “It may be necessary to devise an appropriate mechanism to ensure that no such constructions take place in the floodplain zone and the flow of the river is not in any manner adversely affected.” A factual and action taken report was sought from a joint committee comprising Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), UP irrigation department and Mathura DM with reference to the allegation that a road was being illegally constructed on the river bed of Yamuna in Vrindavan - Mathura between Shringarvat and Keshi Ghat. The other illegal constructions, including multi-storied buildings, that had come up on the active floodplains and the river bed of Yamuna in the holy town of Vrindavan were also mentioned. Irreparable damage was being done to ancient ghats by filling the steps of these ghats, including Cheer Ghat, Govind Ghat and Bhramar Ghat, with construction rubble and debris to build an approach road to transport the same. This was done to reclaim land for the construction of the illegal metaled road.The green tribunal was hearing a plea filed by nature enthusiast Akash Vashishtha who asserted that reclamation of the eco-sensitive Yamuna floodplain is being carried out in gross violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the provisions of the EIA Notification of 2006.Vashishtha said, “The court has granted me the liberty to present all relevant facts to the DM, in the meantime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ngt-seeks-report-from-mathura-dm-on-yamuna-riverfront-in-vrindavan/articleshow/75609139.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||3 who entered Rajkot, Jamnagar test positive||Rajkot: Five persons tested positive in different districts of Saurashtra, while a 45-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Bhavnagar on Thursday. Also, two persons were discharged from the Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar.In Rajkot the two persons who tested positive for coronavirus included a 38-year-old man, who returned from Ahmedabad on May 4 and a 19-year-old woman from Jangleshwar. The Ahmedabad-returned man is resident of Manhar plot area. His is the first case in last three week from outside Rajkot’s hotspot Jangleswhar. The health department has quarantined 68 persons who had come in close contact with the infected man. In Jamnagar, a two women aged 42 and 25 years tested positive on Thursday. The older woman and come from Ahmedabad, while the younger one is resident of from Khambhaliya. Both had entered into the district illegally. Meanwhile, Sofiya Pathan (45), died in Bhavnagar on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-who-entered-rajkot-jamnagar-test-positive/articleshow/75609157.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||Four more test positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh||Agra: Four more people, including two teenagers, tested positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 54. The number of patients has been rising since the beginning of the third phase of lockdown. According to officials, of the four new cases, two are women in their twenties. All four patients are under treatment and their close contacts are being traced for Covid-19 testing. An area of 1 km around their residences have been sealed and is being sanitised. Chief medical officer Dr Bhanu Pratap Singh said so far, only 1.2% people (54) out of the 2,300 who have been tested, were found infected with the virus. Authorities have decided to collect samples of all people who have returned from red zone areas of other states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-aligarh/articleshow/75609127.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Sr citizen suffers skin reaction from DHS stamp||Panaji: The ink used to stamp people entering the state as a precautionary measure to ensure they follow quarantine protocol, has reportedly caused a skin infection in a senior citizen who arrived in Goa via the Patradevi checkpost on Tuesday. A 68-year-old man who returned from Mumbai where he had been undergoing a medical treatment, said part of his skin – on the back of his hand- where the stamp was put, is peeling off. “There was an irritation and there was blood on the patch of the skin marked with ink,” he said. He said he is heart patient and was afraid that he may get a communicable infection because the same stamp has been used to mark other people as well. “I’m worried, and hoping that it won’t result in something serious,” he said. A month ago, the directorate of health services introduced the system of stamping persons who are required to be in quarantine as there had been cases of people placed in home quarantine defying the instructions given to them. The stamp bears a date that shows how may days a person shall have to remain in home or facility quarantine. Those coming from other states are placed in facility quarantine and allowed to go home if they test negative for Covid-19, but required to be home quarantined for a period of 14 days. Dr Jose D’Sa, directorate of health services, said they had received a few complaints of ink causing irritation and that they had replaced the ink in such instances. “Whenever there were complaints, we have changed the ink. Even just a few days ago, we had replaced the ink,” he said further adding that a slight irritation could be possible in few people, but the ink cannot lead to an infection . He clarified that while there have been some cases of people experiencing skin irritation due to the ink, he said they have not come across across any cases of infection that could be linked to the stamp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sr-citizen-suffers-skin-reaction-from-dhs-stamp/articleshow/75612493.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jammu||Uncertainties about return of Jammu students stranded at Ayurveda institute||THRISSUR: A group of eight students from Jammu who had landed in Kerala on March 12 are stranded at National Research Institute for Panchakarma (NRIP), Cheruthuruthi, in the backdrop of Covid 19-induced lockdown. They are waiting for clearance from Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi, and from Jammu administration for return journey. There is still uncertainty about their return because of the delays in the resumption of rail or air traffic. NRIP officials said they are students from the CCRAS centre at Jammu. The students, including four girls, had come here for a short-term course which had begun on March 14. The 14-day course was to be over on March 28. A teacher and his wife had also accompanied the students from Jammu. The visitors from Jammu are accommodated in the institute. “Initially, they were taking food from NRIP canteen. Subsequently, they suggested that they will cook food of their taste and we provided food grains and other items,’’ said assistant director of NRIP Sanjay Kumar. “We have communicated the request of the students to return to Jammu to CCRAS headquarters and are waiting for the direction to take a decision on their return,’’ he said. The students have expressed their desire to return by flight or train and not by road, which will take a long time and entail getting clearances from several states en route, official sources said. However, the uncertainty about the date of resumption of train and flight services after the lockdown is worrying the students as well as the authorities. The clearance of the Jammu officials will also be required for their return trip, the sources said. Chelakkara MLA U R Pradeep said he has promised all possible help for the earliest return of the visitors from Jammu. The MLA said he has written to Kerala chief minister for necessary support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/uncertainties-about-return-of-jammu-students-stranded-at-ayurveda-institute/articleshow/75621912.cms||T Ramavarman
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam district slips from orange to red zone after spike in Covid-19 cases||BHUBANESWAR/BERHAMPUR: With the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Ganjam district, the state government on Thursday designated it as a red zone. The government also named Jagatsinghpur and Mayurbhanj as orange zones. While Ganjam was in the orange zone in the classification last done on Sunday, the other two were in the green. Ganjam was placed in the red category because of its very high doubling rate, a health department official said. Ganjam has reported 28 positive cases, including 24 on Thursday, and all in the past less than a week since it reported its first case on May 3. All those who have tested positive for the virus had returned from Surat. Fifteen trains and more than 200 buses had brought migrants, from Surat and Kerala, to Ganjam. While 13 trains had come from the red zone district of Surat in Gujarat, two came from Kerala. Of the 35,000 migrant workers who have returned to Odisha in the past one week, about 25,000 have entered Ganjam alone. The district now has the second highest number of active cases (28) after Jajpur (54). Mayurbhanj and Jagatsinghpur reported four cases each. While the coronavirus positive persons from Mayurbhanj had also returned from Surat, the four from Jagatsinghpur had come back from West Bengal, the government authorities said. “The Ganjam district administration has set up more than 700 quarantine centres in 503 panchayats in the district to keep the migrants in isolation. All the positive patients were admitted in the Covid-19 care hospital at Sitalapalli. Except three of them, all others are asymptomatic,” Uma Shankar Mishra, superintendent of the Covid-19 hospital, said. The Ganjam administration has asked people not to go near the institutional quarantine centres in the district. Only the authorized persons are allowed to go to the centres. “Stringent action will be taken against the persons who are found visiting the quarantine centres without authorization,” district collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange said. The Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) authorities on Thursday made institutional quarantine mandatory for those returning from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Kerala. The BeMC has set up 27 institutional quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/district-slips-from-orange-to-red-zone-after-spike-in-cases/articleshow/75609165.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Uncertainties about return of Jammu students stranded at Ayurveda institute||THRISSUR: A group of eight students from Jammu who had landed in Kerala on March 12 are stranded at National Research Institute for Panchakarma (NRIP), Cheruthuruthi, in the backdrop of Covid 19-induced lockdown. They are waiting for clearance from Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi, and from Jammu administration for return journey. There is still uncertainty about their return because of the delays in the resumption of rail or air traffic. NRIP officials said they are students from the CCRAS centre at Jammu. The students, including four girls, had come here for a short-term course which had begun on March 14. The 14-day course was to be over on March 28. A teacher and his wife had also accompanied the students from Jammu. The visitors from Jammu are accommodated in the institute. “Initially, they were taking food from NRIP canteen. Subsequently, they suggested that they will cook food of their taste and we provided food grains and other items,’’ said assistant director of NRIP Sanjay Kumar. “We have communicated the request of the students to return to Jammu to CCRAS headquarters and are waiting for the direction to take a decision on their return,’’ he said. The students have expressed their desire to return by flight or train and not by road, which will take a long time and entail getting clearances from several states en route, official sources said. However, the uncertainty about the date of resumption of train and flight services after the lockdown is worrying the students as well as the authorities. The clearance of the Jammu officials will also be required for their return trip, the sources said. Chelakkara MLA U R Pradeep said he has promised all possible help for the earliest return of the visitors from Jammu. The MLA said he has written to Kerala chief minister for necessary support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uncertainties-about-return-of-jammu-students-stranded-at-ayurveda-institute/articleshow/75609194.cms||T Ramavarman
May 8, 2020||Mumbai||Migrants on highways make state look bad; reopen industries, shops: Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal||MUMBAI: “The sight of migrants walking home on highways is heartbreaking and makes the state look bad,” Maharashtra’s food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said on Thursday, He has demanded the state government fund migrants’ travel, especially to border states, free of cost on ST buses. “The state has asked the railways to pay for train fare but we should also step forward to transport migrants free of cost to their home states in an eight-day programme,” he told TOI on Thursday. “They may not be from our state but they are citizens of our country.” Bhujbal is the first minister to publicly demand that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government play a role in financing the transport of migrants to their states. Bhujbal said the state should stop migrant exodus by quickly reopening industries and shops. “Migrants are going home because there is no work. Industries and shopsshould be reopened to retain them. Later, when we end the lockdown, we will need them but they will be gone. How will shops and industries run?” he asked. Meanwhile, Bhujbal was sharply critical of the back and forth in the state government on relaxations granted in the lockdown. “This is creating confusion. How can shops be open only for two hours and only five on one road? Who will monitor this?” “Industries need to be reopened and shops should be kept open for 12 hours. It is because only a few shops are being opened and only for limited hours that there are crowds. And once the shops are open for a few days, the crowds will recede,” said Bhujbal. He, though, said these issues were being monitored by bureaucrats, not the ministry. Bhujbal said both the state and Mumbai urgently need to start relaxing the lockdown. “The country’s economy depends on Maharashtra and Mumbai. If we do not begin relaxing the lockdown, we will have to forget it. There will be nothing left,” he said. The minister was also critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “sudden announcement” of the national lockdown. “He should have given five days’ notice and said the country will shut trains and have a two-month lockdown. Migrants would have gone home and this whole problem of stranded migrants would have been avoided,” said Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/migrants-on-highways-make-state-look-bad-reopen-industries-shops-bhujbal/articleshow/75611826.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 8, 2020||Mumbai||Soon, even 1 worker can book seat on MSRTC site||MUMBAI: State transport commissioner Shekhar Channe told TOI on Thursday that a new MSRTC portal will help stranded citizens, especially migrants, get a bus back home—even if the applicant is alone or in a group of just two to three persons. His team of officials in MSRTC is currently developing the portal, which is likely to be ready by this weekend. According to current rules, migrants must form groups of 25 individuals who can then collectively book a bus after seeking police permission. Over the past few days, migrants have left for Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh in private buses by forming such groups and paying a minimum of Rs 4,000 per seat. The new portal will make things easier for them. First, citizens will not have to run around to form a group. A migrant can directly apply and register details. The portal will collate such applications and the computer will generate a list of all such requests for the same destination, form groups of 25 passengers, and inform them about the next available bus. The portal will also be supported by a helpline. MSRTC buses will be used not just to ferry migrants but also students and tourists. An MSRTC official said, “We will begin the implementation once we get orders from the government. Right now, we are just developing the new website.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-even-1-worker-can-book-seat-on-msrtc-site/articleshow/75609314.cms||Somit Sen
May 8, 2020||Patna||‘Return of migrant workers from Bihar to hit other states’||Patna: The return of migrant workers to Bihar or reverse migration may cost many other states dearly as they might face manpower crunch once the industrial units resume operations, experts feel. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had also requested his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar on March 30 to urge migrant workers from Bihar not to come back. “Spoke to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar ji to apprise him of arrangements being made by the state for the welfare of migrant workers from Bihar. Have asked him to assure their families that Punjab and Punjabis will fully look after them during the lockdown (sic),” the Punjab CM had tweeted on March 30. Singh’s appeal assumed significance as it is the peak harvesting period in Punjab and large number of agriculture workers from Bihar work there. At least 25 lakh migrant workers from Bihar settled across the country are heading back to their home state after the Centre allowed their movement in special trains and buses. Patna-based economist and member secretary of Asian Development Research Institute Shaibal Gupta said reverse migration of workers due to Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of labour as a key input in economic activities. “It is nearly impossible to bring the economy back on the recovery path without these migrant workers as labour shortage will affect each and every sector. Therefore, it is necessary to instil confidence and self-respect in the workers so that they return to their respective workplaces after the Covid-19 threat subsides,” he told TOI. Gupta added, “At the same time, we need to take note of the fact that Bihar has been subsidising national growth initially through the supply of natural resources during the regime of freight equalisation policy and then through supply of workers. Despite this, Bihar has never been on the priority list of the national policymaking. This is the time for the policymakers to realise the huge contribution of Bihar and Bihari workers in economic growth of the country. At the moment, Bihar needs additional support to address the challenges created by sudden influx of migrant workers and the central government should not hesitate in providing those resources.” Economist and former principal of Patna College N K Chaudhary too said the return of migrant workers would lead to serious crisis of manpower in other states. “Despite being semi-skilled or unskilled, these workers constituted a significant chunk of workforce across the country. Their return will certainly make other states understand the importance of migrant workers from Bihar,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the migrant workers who have returned to the state would be given the opportunity to work under MGNREGA in various projects being executed under seven resolves of the Bihar government. “The migrant workers can also be absorbed in construction activities permitted in orange zones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/return-of-migrant-workers-from-bihar-to-hit-other-states/articleshow/75574455.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 8, 2020||Goa||‘Exodus will cripple real estate sector’||Panaji: Echoing concerns of the real estate industry, ports minister Michael Lobo urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to convince migrant labourers involved in construction work to stay back as their exodus could cripple economic activities. Lobo along with members of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) met the chief minister on Thursday in this regard. “If 50% of the labour force moves out of Goa, then all construction activities will come to a standstill,” he said.The minister also said that work on many houses is pending, while builders have to complete projects so that they can handover flats to customers. “Construction activities have already been delayed due to Covid-19, and these have to restart now. For this, we need carpenters, masons, skilled and unskilled labour to be here to complete these works. We have requested Sawant to send a message to the labour force that the state wants them to stay in Goa and that the government is there to help them,” Lobo said. Of the 3.5 lakh migrant workers in the state, nearly 80,000 have already registered themselves with the authorities seeking permission to return home.Lobo said that labourers working in shacks, hotels, restaurants, etc, have no option but to proceed to their native states due to unemployment. “Out of 1 lakh labourers, if 20,000 of them leave then it will not have any impact, but if 70% of them decide to go then the state will come to a standstill and economic activities will grind to a halt,” he said. On Wednesday, Sawant said that the state requires manpower, and that the government is trying to convince the workers to stay back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exodus-will-cripple-real-estate-sector/articleshow/75612513.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||300 labourers on foot for days from Raj rescued in Agra||Agra: Amid the Shramik special train service started by the Centre in coordination with states, there are still hundreds of labourers who are travelling on foot for thousands of km in a desperate attempt to reach home. On Thursday, around 350 migrant labourers along with their families were rescued by Agra district administration after they were found walking towards their home states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other districts of UP along the highway. Some were carrying their little children and walking for days without proper food and water during the Covid-19 lockdown. Coming from Jaipur, Alwar and other parts of Rajasthan, the labourers were halted at Agra-Firozabad border by Tundla police, triggering a panic among the distressed labourers, who held a brief protest by blocking the highway. However, a prompt response from Agra district administration, calmed them down. Later, all were drove to the quarantine centres in Etmadpur and Itmad-ud-daula of Agra in UP roadways buses.Aziz Ahmad, 26, a migrant labourer who worked at a private firm in Jaipur said, “We have been walking for the past three days without proper food and water. We just want to reach our home now.”While Seema, carrying her 11-month-old son in her arms, said, “The company in which we were working has been shut down for more than 40 days. The landlord was treating us inhumanely and forced us to vacate the rented accommodation, leaving us with no option, but to walk towards home.”Sonu Kumar who walked from Alwar and joined the group in Agra said, “I’m disappointed by our Bihar government. They have done nothing for us to take us home. The administration here has at least arranged buses for us.”Superintendent of police (rural west) Ravi Kumar told TOI, “The migrant labourers were stopped by Firozabad administration on the highway, after which we brought all of them to our quarantine centres. There are 129 labourers of UP, 122 of Bihar, 58 from Jharkhand and 14 from West Bengal. All of them will be screened for Covid-19 infection, after which we will first release the UP labourers in the state roadways bus, while for migrants of other states, we will contact their respective governments to make arrangements.”He also said, “Till Thursday, we have shifted over 1,500 migrant labourers to our quarantine centres and shelters homes in Agra district, such as in Fatehpur Sikri, Itmad-ud-daula and Etmadpur. Food, water and other necessary items are being provided.”However, when asked why so many labourers were being allowed to enter Agra, the SP added, “Since our Agra district share porous borders with Dholpur, Morena, Mathura, migrant labourers are using farmlands and other routes to walk into Agra, but at the end they are stopped near NH-2 while heading towards Bihar, Bengal and other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/300-labourers-on-foot-for-days-from-raj-rescued-in-agra/articleshow/75609181.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Healthcare costs will spike significantly post-lockdown||Nagpur: Covid-19 pandemic has changed our way of life. Lockdown or no lockdown, it is not going to be the same, said veteran physician and director of Dande Hospitals Dr Pinak Dande. He spoke to TOI on the future of healthcare industry post-Covid and how common patients should be ready for costly medical care afterwards. Q: When and how our life will come back to normal after Covid-19? A: Instead of normal, we should get accustomed to ‘new normal’. Instead of life after corona, we should start using the term ‘life with corona’. Even World Health Organization (WHO) has said the same thing. The new normal may start as soon as lockdown gets lifted or it may take some weeks, or months. But, we must be ready for it. Q: What major change you can see in healthcare field in this new normal? A: Healthcare will be completely changed. Visiting hospitals or clinics is not going to be an easy affair like it was. New diagnostic parameters, mandatory use of protective gear both by doctors and patients, anti-infection protocol, avoiding crowd at hospitals and many more regulations will come. Heavy sanitization will become need of the hour. Together, this will increase healthcare costs. Doctors and patients both must be ready for higher cost of healthcare. Q: How will this affect patients? A: Doctors will use advanced PPE kits, N95 masks even during normal check-up and physiological processes like delivery too. In surgery, at least five people are there in operation theatre including surgeon, his assistant, an anaesthetist, and nurses. All these will have to wear disposable protective gear. This cost will be added to surgery bills. Most TPAs don’t refund disposables. So, patients will have to face more burden. Secondly, avoiding crowd at hospitals will be a major challenge. Visiting a doctor without prior appointment will not be possible. Q: Do you fear this will reduce patients’ footfall to hospitals? A: Patient footfalls have already fallen drastically. After Covid, many won’t visit hospital for normal check-ups due to fear and stigma. Low occupancy in private hospitals will further adversely affect healthcare economics. Doctors as well as patients will be at receiving end. Government should bring some policy to revive healthcare industry post Covid-19. Q: What will be your advice to common people? A: Prepare yourself for new normal. Concentrate on maintaining health and keeping fit. But don’t avoid check-up in case of illness. Government should come up with policy to make healthcare affordable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/healthcare-costs-will-spike-significantly-post-lockdown/articleshow/75613325.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civil hospital gets approval for PLACID trial||KOLHAPUR: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given the approval to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR), the civil hospital in Kolhapur, to conduct clinical trials of plasma therapy. The ICMR has initiated a multi-centre clinical trial titled, “A Phase II, Open-Label, Randomized Controlled Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit COVID-19 Associated Complications in Moderate Disease (PLACID trial).” Hematologist at CPR, Varun Bafna told TOI that any patient over 18-years-old who has tested positive for Covid-19 via real-time-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), had respiratory issues and reported drop in oxygen saturation would be eligible for the PLACID trial. “We have to send the details of the patient to the ICMR. Depending on their analysis, they will give us a go ahead for the plasma therapy or the routine treatment,” said Bafna adding that the CPR has already collected four different blood plasma samples from patients who have recovered. “We will be sending our first case to the ICMR today (Thursday) for recommendation,” he said. Notably, the convalescent plasma therapy could be used on patients with weak immunity having comorbid conditions. The antibodies from the plasma can help boost their immunity levels. The therapy involves drawing out blood from a patient who has recovered from Covid-19 atleast two weeks ago. The plasma is then separated from the blood. About 400ml of plasma can be used to treat two patients. The treatment is based on the theory that antibodies generated in a patient suffering from Covid-19 will help fight the infection among new patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civil-hospital-gets-approval-for-placid-trial/articleshow/75609174.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cadila Pharmaceuticals shuts Dholka factory as 26 workers test Covid-19 positive||AHMEDABAD: City-based Cadila Pharmaceuticals has shut its factory in Dholka after as many as 26 workers tested positive for Covid-19. This is perhaps the first instance in Gujarat where a pharmaceuticals company has been forced to shut operations due to workers being infected with the novel coronavirus. Among various other drugs, the Dholka facility manufactured Sepsivac, which is being tested for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The project is being executed by Cadila Pharma and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). An official privy to the development said that the Sepsivac project was on and there was no impact on it due to the current shutdown as the infected persons were not in that department. The company has already a large stock of Sepsivac immunomodulators, so there won’t be any significant impact on Phase 3 clinical trials which will commence soon, he added. “Recently, 26 of our employees at our Dholka facility tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, we have closed operations on our own, and are undertaking deep sanitization of the plant and its surroundings,” the company said in a media statement on Thursday. The issue came to light when one of the employees in the packaging department was feeling unwell and went to a clinic in Dholka where he was advised to consult doctors at Sola Civil Hospital. After testing positive for Covid-19 there, contact tracing and tracking of 30 other employees in the packaging division was carried out, said H G Koshia, commissioner, Food and Drug Control Administration, Gujarat. “Unfortunately, this is the first pharma company in Gujarat to close due to this issue. The reason behind this is the unpredictable character of the coronavirus. All the employees who tested positive were asymptomatic,” he added. Gujarat contributes more than 30% of the country’s pharma production and according to Koshia, the pharma factories of the state are running at least 80% of their capacity. There are at least four companies with production facilities in Gujarat that are doing testing for vaccines to combat Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cadila-shuts-dholka-factory-as-26-workers-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75610888.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||Spurned at midnight by Karnataka, migrant labourers return dejected||Panaji: On May 6, when Ravi Kumar Jigalur heard that he would be heading home to his village Lakalkatti in Gadag, Karnataka, he was overjoyed. Married just a year ago, Jigalur has a three-month old boy whom he has never set eyes on. The 25-year old’s joy was shortlived as the Karnataka government refused to accept him back. Karnataka’s policies towards vulnerable migrant workers population have already spurred public outrage. On Wednesday night, it just made it worse. After cancelling special trains for migrant workers two days earlier, the BJP-led state turned away 120 of its own citizens who had waited for five weeks to go back home. The workers were staying at a shelter home in Bicholim and Navelim during the national lockdown . “The Goa government has treated us very well and we have no complaints. The Karnataka government has failed us, especially our local MLAs who we have tried to call and they have not responded to our call. When they want votes during elections they call us up and now when we really need their help, nobody is answering,” said 37-year old Basavraj Jigalur, Ravi’s brother. Around 150 migrant workers were housed at government shelter homes at Peddem, Calangute, Bicholim and Navelim. The Goa government coordinated with the Karnataka government and arranged for the workers to be transported on special Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) buses. Just after the buses departed on Wednesday, the Karwar district collector called up officials in Goa and cancelled permission for the humanitarian mission. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit confirmed the development and said all the workers were agitated and disappointed. “They wanted to go home and after they came back, I spoke to some of them. They were upset,” said Pandit. Senior government officials said confusion arose after it was found that some of the workers possessed Aadhaar cards with Goan addresses while the voting cards showed them as residents of Gadag and Koppal district. The GoaOnline portal for migrant workers to register if they want to return home requires an email ID, mobile number and Aadhaar ID. “When documents are not certain, they don’t allow the entry,” an IAS official said. He stated that Goa government is already coordinating with Karnataka to transport the migrant labourers who want to go back. The plight of the workers began on March 25 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown. The workers soon packed up their meagre belongings and began to walk towards home, only to be stopped at the Goa border on March 28. “ Even if we are willing to walk all the way, we are not allowed to go home, but for the rich, the government sent planes to bring them back ,” said Basavraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spurned-at-midnight-by-karnataka-migrant-labourers-return-dejected/articleshow/75612508.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘No sign of community spread in Ganjam yet’||Why has Ganjam recorded such a steep rise in positive cases?All 28 Covid-19 patients are those who have returned from Surat. They were in institutional quarantine. We are trying hard to contain the spread of the infection by enhancing testing and surveillance, isolating persons suspected of carrying the virus and moving patients to hospital. How can testing be increased in the quarantine centres?By testing even the asymptomatic cases. Our priority is to test pregnant women, children, elderly persons and, most importantly, primary and secondary contacts of positive cases. A team of senior health officials, deputed by the state government, is supervising the surveillance and containment measures in the district. We are prepared to face the challenge. As far as infrastructure is concerned, almost 3,000 temporary medical camps or quarantine facilities have been set up. Since people are now travelling by train, we have been receiving them smoothly and sending them to their respective quarantine facilities. How can the damage in rural areas be limited?My sincere request to all the people of our district is to stay away from the quarantine centres. Only authorised persons are allowed to visit the facilities. I urge the returnees to adhere to the quarantine norms strictly. This will help us contain the spread of the infection. Strict action will be taken against those violating the instructions of the administration. There was some discontent among returnees over arrangements in quarantine facilitiesThere were some issues but they have been resolved. There is no discontent among the returnees now. I personally visited some centres and spoke to the people there. Healthy food is being served, while emphasis has been placed on maintaining hygiene. Yoga, physical exercise and counselling are being conducted to keep the returnees engaged. There is panic among people given the sudden rise in casesAs I said earlier, the increase is because of the return of large numbers of people from hotspots. There is no sign of community spread as of now. People should not panic at all. We request them to be in their homes and not step out unless it is very urgent. They should maintain social distancing and use masks while going out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-sign-of-community-spread-in-ganjam-yet/articleshow/75609175.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Trichy||Staff of shops, private cos need certified ID cards for joining duty||Thanjavur: In an effort to minimize people wandering around unnecessarily following the relaxation of lockdown restrictions from Wednesday, the monitoring officer of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam district has instructed those who have to join duty to have ID cards. Employees of private companies and shops in the districts should get ID cards from local body authorities. They should get an ID card with a photo before reporting for duty. Monitoring officer M S Shanmugam has stated that workers possessing the ID cards should also carry the colour coded permit cards, which were earlier issued to each family to get out of the home to buy essentials. “Workers who have both these cards alone can travel to their workplace. Those who found violating the norms will be punished,” the monitoring officer told reporters after completing a discussion with Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao and officials here on Thursday. Migrant labourers have started arriving at their home towns. Efforts have been taken to identify proper places to isolate them and subsequent testing process. People and volunteers who come to know about their arrivals should inform the same to the revenue, police, and health officials, the monitoring officer said. He also stated that the rules would be implemented in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the monthly farmers’ grievance meetings have not been conducted at the collector offices. Meanwhile, Nagapattinam collector Praveen K Nair convened a grievance meeting of farmers through video conferencing to prevent farmers of various parts of the district from travel to the collector office. Farmers appealed to the state government to release water from Mettur reservoir before the customary date of June 12, as the area of cultivation seems to have increased in the delta districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/staff-of-shops-private-cos-need-certified-id-cards-for-joining-duty/articleshow/75611824.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Additional Pune collector suffers cardiac arrest, dies||PUNE: Additional Pune collector Sahebrao Gaikwad (53), closely monitoring the Covid-19 operations in the district, passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest early on Thursday morning. Gaikwad was rushed to a private hospital in the city, but was declared brought dead, said an official from district administration. He was on duty till late in the evening on Wednesday, said an official of the Pune collectorate. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said Gaikwad was an efficient and duty-bound officer. “He was helping me with the overall Covid-19 pandemic operations and his sudden demise is a loss for the administration,” Ram said. The revenue department officials said Gaikwad was an easy going and upright officer. They stated that he was transferred to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation as the additional commissioner on April 30, but he did not join there and approached the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal, challenging the order. According to the collectorate officials, Gaikwad was reinstated in the collector’s office and the official order was awaited. Gaikwad earlier served in Satara. He was transferred to the Pune district collectorate only six months ago. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/additional-pune-collector-suffers-cardiac-arrest-dies/articleshow/75612490.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Bhopal||Feels like 1984 again: Bhopal tragedy survivors||BHOPAL: As videos of the Vizag gas victims played out on TV on Thursday, survivors of the Bhopal gas tragedy recoiled in horror. Memories of their own nightmare came flooding back. “This is just how it happened. People would start running and collapse after a few steps,” they said. The Bhopal gas tragedy – the worst industrial disaster in the world – killed around 3,800 people and affected over 5.5 lakh when methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas leaked out of the Union Carbide plant around midnight on December 2, 1984. Vizag: Over 1,000 people fell sick and many faced breathing difficulties after an alleged gas leak at a chemical pl… https://t.co/hQH5HftVoe— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1588816670000Going by numbers, the Vizag incident seems smaller in comparison, but the trauma would be just as severe, Bhopal survivors told TOI. People were asked to evacuate their places as they were experiencing strong smell once again.Follow live updates:… https://t.co/U2lAhRidaT— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1588875014000TV visuals of people lying by the roadside, parents running with unconscious children in their arms, stories of victims stumbling around and collapsing – it’s like rewinding to 1984, they say. Vizag gas leak: Rescue operations in full swing in the affected area #VizagGasLeak #GasLeak https://t.co/nD0sNeeCmM— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1588817934000Gyandev, who was 15 then, recalls waking up to a burning sensation in his eyes and throat. “My grandfather was the first to start coughing. Our eyes had started burning, and tears poured out uncontrollably. My father, who was a policeman, thought a robber had sprayed a chemical and told me to run to the police station. When I went there, the sentry told me to run. ‘It’s not your house alone. Run,’ he said,” Gyandev told TOI. The family ran for their lives. People leave their homes and take shelter under trees in remote areas. #VizagGasLeak #GasLeak #LGPolymersGasLeak https://t.co/LlDki47EZV— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1588828073000Vizag visuals revive gas tragedy scarsI and my brother sped on a cycle and my sister, parents, and grandfather simply ran. We managed to escape though we got separated. But what we saw that night was nothing compared to the next morning’s horror when I and my brother tried to return to our house. Bodies lay on the road. I saw a girl in blue salwar lying near my house and started crying, thinking my sister was dead. At the police station, vans were coming loaded with bodies.” These days, gas tragedy survivors live in the dread of coronavirus, which has killed 13 of their own. “What we saw that night and the next morning transcended fear. The heaps of bodies we saw still gives us nightmares. It all came back today,” said Gyandev. Shahzadi, who was 28 then and lived in Kazi Camp, one of the worst-hit areas, said the Vizag visuals opened up raw wounds. “A chill goes through my bones when I remember that night. We didn’t know what was happening to us. Our eyes burnt. People were coughing and running around in panic. We ran, too, not caring about where we were going. We just ran but the gas followed us. After some time, we couldn’t see and stumble around blindly. Just when we thought we'd pass out, a truck driver halted and told us to jump aboard.” She hopes survivors in Vizag don’t suffer the debilitating effects of the gas. “Sometimes, I feel, we are suffering more than those who died. My husband developed hypertension, diabetes, cardiac problems. My elder son, who was six then, is now 42 but can’t do anything even slightly strenuous as his lungs cannot keep up,” she said Santosh was 12 when the gas disaster struck Bhopal. Both his kidneys have failed and he is surviving on a kidney donated by a woman, whose husband got a kidney from his wife. “We ran from our house to the bridge near Bharat Talkies where we started falling unconscious one after another. My father regained consciousness the next morning and somehow managed to bring us back home. The next day, a health team took us to hospital, where our eyes were bandaged for three days,” he said, adding that report of people stumbling around disorientated and collapsing sound “horribly similar”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/feels-like-1984-again-bhopal-tragedy-survivors/articleshow/75613739.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 8, 2020||Goa||Opposition hits out at Goa government||PANAJI: While the Centre has announced 64 flights and a naval rescue mission to bring back stranded Indians, the Goa government has failed to ensure that similar direct flights are organised to bring back the thousands of Goans stranded across the world, said the opposition on Wednesday. Goa Forward Party (GFP) and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte slammed chief minister Pramod Sawant and the BJP, and said that the BJP cadres were opposed to the return of Goan seafarers. Special direct flights have been organised to rescue stranded Indians from May 7 with the flights landing in 10 different states but not Goa. “At least this government should have asked to get permission to open up Goa International Airport at Dabolim to allow rescue flights chartered by the cruise companies to land. Even this concession they were not able to get from the Centre despite it being ruled by the same ruling party,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. GFP said that it would ask Goa governor Satya Pal Malik to take up the issue of stranded Goans with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sardesai said that Sawant lacked the political will in Delhi to convince the Centre of the need to fly back stranded Goans. Opposition leader Digamabar Kamat also spoke to Goa governor Satya Pal Malik on Wednesday to discuss the disembarkation process for seafarers stuck on two cruise vessels at Mumbai. “I have also taken up issues related to paid quarantine for seafarers. The governor has to take up the issue with Centre,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “Step-motherly treatment for Goan seafarers yet again! It's time that the state govt and chief minister of Goa proactively work to get the seafarers repatriated home. Some of them have been stranded for a long time and are unable to make the journey back home on the GoI repatriation flights,” said Khaunte. GFP also said the Goa government was “goaded into a symbolic action” to disembark the crew of Marella Discovery but even that was “totally botched up” by the state. “Probably underhand deals by agents and government agencies are being negotiated to milch beleaguered seafarers’ companies,” said Sardesai. Sardesai said that the state BJP unit and the government were only announcing “feel-good promises and assurances” to protect the Congress-turned BJP MLAs from criticism in Salcete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-hits-out-at-goa-government/articleshow/75613764.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 8, 2020||Goa||MP workers throng Peddem stadium for train ride home||Mapusa: Confusion and chaos ensued among migrant labourers who thronged the Dayanand Bandodkar Krida Sankool at Peddem, Mapusa, on Thursday in the hope of securing a place on a train that was scheduled to leave on Friday. Many had to go back empty-handed as gates closed of the Sankool were closed around 5.30 pm. “We came here in the afternoon after one of the our roommates got a call that people from Madhya Pradesh should go to Peddem for registration. So, all of us have come today but now they are not allowing us to register,” said Atul Singh, from Satna district in MP. He desperately waited outside the gate till late evening along with his friends, with tears in his eyes. Authorities conducting registration periodically repeated that only those who had received a call should stand in the queue for registration. Others would be counted later. Singh and his friends, who worked in a hotel at Porvorim, said they had no chance of getting transport back to their room in Porvorim. “We will have to walk if there are no buses,” said Pankaj Kushwa. There is no clarity about the transport arrangements, and for the past few days, the hundreds of labourers who gathered ar Peddem said they approached every possible authority- from the police to local panchayat— to register to go back to their home state. Atul Singh, 30 who worked in a hotel said his family back in his village has been calling him everyday. “We want to go home by any means, even sitting atop the train,” he said. Earning less than Rs 10,000 a month, most claimed that they had not received last month’s salary. “They (government) has made us run from pillar to post. If you call ten times, you get answered once. Even if you get someone to reply, they have a standard answer, that work is in progress,” said a Kushwa, his despair apparent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mp-workers-throng-peddem-stadium-for-train-ride-home/articleshow/75612529.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records 28 new Covid-19 positive cases, Satara 20||KOLHAPUR: The number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases shot up in Solapur and Satara districts on Thursday, with the former registering 28 patients, one of whom died, and the latter recording 20 fresh cases. Of the new cases registered in Solapur city on Thursday, 14 were men and 15 women. Twenty-four cases were close contacts of the Covid-19 positive patients identified earlier. The remaining five cases were associated with the Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patient who died on Wednesday morning. The deceased was a 48-year-old woman from the New Paccha Peth area of the city. She was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday morning and died around 3pm the same day. Her throat swab samples were collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis. The reports, which arrived on Thursday, confirmed that she had the contagion. So far, 11 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in Solapur district. With the addition of 29 cases, including one death, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has gone upto 182, of which 142 are still active. As many as 29 patients have recovered from the infection. Menwhile, Satara district saw a massive surge in Covid-19 cases with as many as 20 fresh cases being reported in one single day on Thursday. Of the 20 cases, 15 people are close contacts of positive patients identified earlier from Karad and the remaining five are inmates of Satara district jail. According to the district civil surgeon, Satara, Amod Gadikar, as many as 183 suspects were admitted to the isolation ward on Thursday and their throat swab samples have been sent for testing to B J Medical College in Pune. As many as 149 reports which returned on Thursday tested negative for the contagion. The number of positive patients is likely to increase given that the results of the throat swab samples of 587 suspects are still awaited. So far, the tally of positive patients cases in Satara district stand at 112, of which 96 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-28-new-positive-cases-satara-20/articleshow/75609198.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government clears ordinance for labour reforms||GANDHINAGAR: In the wake of exodus of thousands of migrant workers who are leaving the state, the Gujarat cabinet has approved a new ordinance where existing stringent labour laws will be liberalised to ensure smooth functioning of industries in the post lockdown period. Even as there is likely to be a major shortage of workers in industries during the post lockdown period, provisions of the new ordinance will help factories and other industrial units to continue production with limited workers. The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the new ordinance. Under the ordinance, factories will be allowed to work round-the-clock, according to the availability of labour. At present, this relief is being permitted to a very few units. Currently, factories are supposed to operate in eight-hour shifts. However, under the new ordinance, workers can be employed for 12-hour shifts. In another significant change, factories with a minimum of workers will have to seek registration. Earlier, it was mandatory for factories with 10 workers to get registered. By this reform, around 18,000 small units will be freed from regulations. A key government source said that the state government had approved the ordinance to ensure smooth functioning of units in the post-lockdown period. “As a result of the long lockdown, and large scale exodus of workers to their native places, industries are expected to face a major shortage of workers,” the source said. Earlier, industries had to pay double wages to employees who worked additional four hours a day. Under the new ordinance, with the 12-hour shifts, workers can be employed for 72-hours a week instead of 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-clears-ordinance-for-labour-reforms/articleshow/75610882.cms||Kapil Dave
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Port readies to receive evacuee ship from Male||KOCHI: With the first Navy ship ferrying around 750 expatriates from the Maldivian capital Male expected to arrive at Cochin Port on May 10, authorities here have made all necessary arrangements to ensure a hassle-free process. The disembarkation exercise, including transfer of passengers from the vessel to terminal area, will be overseen by an officer representing the district administration. An officer representing the district medical authority will manage medical protocols. The onward transport of passengers to institutional quarantine centres will be coordinated by the regional transport officer. Before the ship docks in Kochi, the Navy will collect e-declaration data from all passengers and also identify those with symptoms of Covid-19. Symptomatic passengers will disembark first, followed by other passengers (district-wise) in batches of 50 each. IGP Vijay Sakhare and Fort Kochi sub-collector Snehil Kumar Singh visited the Samudrika cruise terminal on Thursday and reviewed arrangements. They also held discussions with officials from the district administration, police, Cochin Port Trust, CISF, Port Health Organisation, immigration and Indian Navy. The ambulance for transport of symptomatic passengers to quarantine centres will be arranged by the district medical officer (DMO) and district administration. A separate zone has been earmarked for symptomatic patients. Passengers will undergo further statutory verification within the cruise terminal where Port Health Organisation will verify self-declaration forms. BSNL will issue SIM cards to passengers. Passengers must install the Aarogya Setu app on their mobiles while inside the terminal. After immigration and customs checks and baggage scanning, asymptomatic passengers will be transported to their districts in KSRTC buses (30 per bus) arranged by the Regional Transport Officer. Private vehicles with proper separations will be made available for certain category of passengers. Port authorities have made it clear that visitors or relatives of arriving passengers will not be permitted to the terminal area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/port-readies-to-receive-evacuee-ship-from-male/articleshow/75609209.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Increase Covid beds, tests: WB government to private hospitals||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata were asked by the health department on Thursday to enhance the number of Covid beds and increase the capacity of their existing units. In a meeting held at Swasthya Bhavan, they have also been asked to start testing Covid samples to resume normal services and operate at full strength. The meeting was chaired by health secretary Vivek Kumar in the presence of health services director Ajay Chakraborty and was attended by at least 16 private hospital representatives. Health officials also stressed on the need to resume normal operations, which, they pointed out, will happen only if they scaled up their testing facilities. It was also hinted that hospitals could soon be allowed to conduct tests on outpatients. Prodded by the health department, at least two hospitals have decided to extend their Covid units and three have declared that they will introduce RT-PCR testing facilities at their labs. Among those who have decided to extend their Covid units are RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and Medica Superspecialty Hospital. While the former will add 15 more beds to its five-bed Covid unit, Medica will scale up to 47 beds from 28. AMRI increased its Covid unit capacity to 51 from 39 last week. “At RTIICS, we are scaling up our services to normal levels and are in the process of setting up our own RT-PCR lab,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. Medica, too, will introduce a testing facility. The emphasis at the meeting was on resumption of normal services at private hospitals, according to a private hospital representative who attended the meeting. “We were also asked to scale up testing facilities for Covid. Our inputs were also taken regarding challenges faced by us and we were assured that they will be addressed. Overall, it was a productive meeting,” he said. Woodlands Hospital, too, is ready to start Covid tests and is prepared with its laboratory. “We have applied for NABL and are waiting for kits so that we can start RT-PCR Covid-19 testing,” said CEO Rupali Basu. The health officials also reiterated the need to resume both elective and emergency surgeries and asked private hospital representatives to ensure that each dialysis patient is tested for Covid. They were also advised to resume emergency procedures like transplantations. “Every hospital should ensure that their diagnostic services were run normally. No patient should be refused and we should be humane in our approach,” said a hospital representative. At least two private hospitals, however, pointed out that they wouldn’t be able to start Covid units due to their location and space constraints. While one has just begun constructing a new wing, the other pointed out that they were surrounded by schools and had no extra space for a Covid unit. Fortis Hospital is gearing up to extend its 20-bed Covid unit to around 30 beds. “We are in the process of expanding the unit which should be completed in about a week. Also, we have drawn up a blueprint for testing outpatients which will be a big step ahead. It will free up a lot of beds that are now being occupied by suspects who can’t be tested without admission,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-pvt-hosps-to-add-covid-beds-start-tests/articleshow/75610731.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 8, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot to stop issuing travel passes||RAJKOT: Rajkot administration has decided to stop issuing passes to people who want to go to Ahmedabad for biz purposes and also return to the city. Resident additional collector P B Pandya said, “Many people want to get passes to go to Ahmedabad for work and return in a few days. We have stopped issuing such passes looking at the pandemic situation in Ahmedabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-to-stop-issuing-travel-passes/articleshow/75609219.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Agra||Three kraits rescued from 50-ft-deep well in Agra||AGRA: Three venomous snakes -- Common Krait -- were found in a 50-foot-deep open well at Nagla Murli village in Runakta, Agra. All the snakes were rescued and released back to their natural habitat by a team from Wildlife SOS, an NGO. A resident of the village got a shock of his life when he found not one but three venomous kraits trapped in an open well. He spotted the snakes while switching on the motor pump and immediately alerted the NGO. Donning personal protective equipment equipment (PPE), a two-member team from the NGO rushed to the location. The rescuers confirmed that the snakes were Common Kraits, one of the four most venomous snake species in the country. According to NGO officials, one of the rescuers climbed down into the well to safely transfer the three snakes into a transport carrier. The entire operation lasted around 30 minutes. “Kraits are often found resting in crevices, rodent burrows, termite mounds or under rocks during the day, They are cannibalistic in nature and also prey on other snakes besides feeding on rodents, frogs, toads and lizards,” said an NGO member. Baiju Raj M.V, do, conservation projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “We often receive calls about snakes and other animals falling into open wells. Even during this tough time, our dedicated team of rescuers is ready to provide its services to ensure safety of humans and wild animals." Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder of Wildlife SOS, said “It was a challenging rescue operation as our team was handling not one but three highly venomous kraits. Snakes are often demonised due to the suspicion they are often surrounded with, but in reality, a snake never strikes unless it is forced to defend itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-kraits-rescued-from-50-ft-deep-well-in-agra/articleshow/75609206.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||5,400 Goans looking to return from other states||Panaji: Over 5,400 Goans living in other parts of the country have registered to come back, with nearly half coming in from the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. Till date, 70 Goans have returned from Karnataka and MP. A senior government officer said that among the people wanting to leave Goa, priority will be given to those in distress, including tourists and the unemployed, among others. As per data, over 46,000 migrants from over ten states have shown willingness to return to their states. To facilitate their return the state has drawn up a list of trains needed to various destinations and submitted it before the railways ministry, chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI. The ministry’s nod is awaited, he said. “The first train from Goa may go to Madhya Pradesh,” Sawant said. As per protocol, a state can book a train if it can achieve 90% occupancy. A 20-bogie train has a capacity of 1,200 passengers. “We are still in discussions to book trains,” the senior officer said. Meanwhile, six buses have already left with migrants to Gujarat and Karnataka, among other states. “Except for Gujarat, Goa has taken care of their bus fare,” the chief minister said, adding that while returning these buses have brought back around 70 Goans. The officer said that of the over 5,400 Goans wanting to return, over 2,000 are from Karnataka and Maharashtra. “We are ascertaining the exact number of Goans looking to return from Mumbai and Pune,” the officer said. “Government officers are helping migrants who are unable to register themselves,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5400-goans-looking-to-return-from-other-states/articleshow/75612521.cms||Murari Shetye
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Government working on plan to employ returning Rajasthan workers in industry: Subodh Agarwal||Industry in Rajasthan has been battling on multiple fronts to restart operations and the exodus of migrant labour has only added to the woes. In an interview to TOI, additional chief secretary, industries, Subodh Agarwal gives an insight into the government’s strategy to revive the economy and solve the labour problems for the industry. How many industrial units have sought passes for reopening and how many have actually started operations?Till date, over 12,500 industrial units or enterprises have contacted to RIICO and DICs for passes for reopening their respective units. As per a survey carried out by the authorities concerned, over 8,000 MSMEs, about 200 large-scale units and more than 500 cottage industries have actually started their operations so far. Migrant workers were allowed to leave at a time when the industry is restarting factories. How would that impact labour availability?It is not true. In the permitted units during lockdown 1.0 and 2.0, over 1.10 lakh workers were engaged before April 30 when the MHA allowed movement of migrant workers. Despite continuous persuasion, they have decided to go due to factors such as weakening industrial environment and uncertainties of lockdown. The movement of trained labour is just one of the hurdles. Achieving 100% production will depend on demand, raw material availability, liquidity and infection curve, transport, and inter-state supply which are big challenges now. Do you think you need to push industry to hire some of the Rajasthani migrant workers who have returned?More than 2.10 lakh Rajasthani labourers have returned against the 69,000 who have gone to other states. Labour and industry departments are working on this issue and creating a data bank of all migrated workers so that suitable employment opportunities can be created for them. Advisories will be issued to industries for absorbing them. Besides, skill development programmes will be curated to make them relevant to needs of the industry. We will try our best to use them in private sector. Many industries are not comfortable with the system of keeping workers on the factory premises. How are you going to address this?This condition has been relaxed, except for those units which are located within municipal limits but not situated within industrial areas having access control. From May 4 onwards, it is not necessary to keep workers within factory premises. Intra-state movement of labourers for working in factories is critical. What is the government’s thought on removing the hurdle?Recently, home department has allowed intra-state movement of labourers for working in factories. Hence, this issue is resolved. After getting passes from respective district collectors, they can travel by dedicated vehicles. You have issued the advisory urging industry to pay full April salary to workers. Is it legally binding?This is an advisory, but chairperson, State Executive Committee, under the Act of 2005, has issued an order on April 1, 2020, in this regard and the same is legally binding. Are you planning any financial and non-fiscal measures to revive the industry?The state government is very much concerned about revival of economy. RIICO and RFC have already extended relief to existing borrowers by deferring due installments by two months. For existing allottees of RIICO also, we are working. Report of Task Force has been received and is under examination. But everything will be done after lifting of lockdown as that will help us in accessing the actual position of economy, losses of industry. By that time, the Centre’s decision on relief package would also have come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-working-on-plan-to-employ-returning-rajasthan-workers-in-industry-agarwal/articleshow/75611835.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 8, 2020||Coimbatore||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614110.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala cops disperse labourers who gathered at Koothattukulam||KOCHI: Tension prevailed at Koothattukulam town in the district on Thursday morning as guest labourers came out as a group forcing policemen to brandish batons and disperse the crowd. According to sources, the incident happened around 8am, and the issue was immediately brought under control as the guest workers quickly dispersed and ran to their camps, soon after a few policemen brandished cane sticks at them after warning them of using force if they won’t leave the premises immediately. “Some of the guest labourers had gathered in public as they were unable to go home yet. Since, they didn’t disperse during an initial talk, police officers at the location brandished their batons and the guest labourers returned to their camps,” said an officer with rural police. Koothattukulam muncipality chairman Roy Abraham said that those involved were guest labourers from West Bengal. “Most number of guest labourers here hail from West Bengal. They became worried as their friends from states like Bihar and Odisha left for their homes but they were yet to get trains to go home. I think that they were going to the police station as a march when they were dispersed by police in the town,” said Abraham. He said that the concern of the labourers did have some merit. “I hope that the authorities concerned would take necessary steps to make arrangements for their travel,” he said. Meanwhile, police officers said that police action was a warning and a deterrence measure. “There was no lathicharge as such. Policemen wielded batons and brandished it so that everyone knows that we are able to use force if need be. Policemen have been extremely caring towards the guest labourers and have made all arrangements for their well-being here. However, no one will be allowed to create a law and order situation and the police are fully equipped to use force, if it comes to that,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-disperse-labourers-who-gathered-at-koothattukulam/articleshow/75609233.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||S Goa’s labour hub to be deserted soon||Quepem: Tilamoll junction, considered a major hub for labour in South Goa, may soon wear a deserted look, as more than 550 labourers from the area under Xeldem panchayat have submitted their applications to return to their states. Before the lockdown, the workers from Tilamoll, mostly daily wagers, would gather near the junction early every morning. Contractors from South Goa would come here to pick up the required manpower. Sarpanch of Xeldem panchayat, Caetano De Lima, said that as of Thursday, the panchayat had received 551 applications from labourers. The Amona junction within the jurisdiction of the Quepem municipal council was a smaller gathering point for labourers. The municipality had received 350 applications. In other areas, Sanguem municipal council had received 339 applications, Ambaulim panchayat adjoining Quepem town received 23 applications and Avedem-Cotombi panchayat received only two, according to sarpanch Alleluia Fernandes. If all labourers from Quepem, Tilamoll and Sanguem leave, then it would be a major setback, mostly for the construction industry as most were working at construction sites, said Piety Costa, an electrical contractor from Quepem. The officials from the panchayats said that a majority of the applicants are from Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goas-labour-hub-to-be-deserted-soon/articleshow/75612543.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court allows an accused bail for Ramzan||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has granted temporary bail to a murder accused to observe fasts during the holy month of Ramzan. He will have to surrender to jail on May 25, after Eid-ul-Fitr. The case involved Sohil Kakal (21) from Mundra, who is at present lodged in a district jail near Gandhidham in Kutch district since May 2017. He requested the high court to release him on bail for 30 days so that he could fast during the Ramzan. Kakal submitted in his bail plea, “Ramzan is a holy month of Muslims and is a time of spiritual reflection, self-improvement, and heightened devotion and worship, during which applicant is required to observe strict fasting from dawn to sunset without even consumption of any food or liquid of any nature what so ever and for this, the applicant is required to have fruits and other food which can provide energy for the rest of the day to observe fast.” He further submitted, “In this month of Ramzan, it would be impossible to observe such fast in the jail premises because numerous restrictions are there inside the jail premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-allows-an-accused-bail-for-ramzan/articleshow/75610879.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Chennai||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75611847.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Madurai||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614112.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||First Shramik special train to leave from Goa for MP today||MARGAO: The first Shramik special express train from Goa will leave on Friday carrying nearly a thousand passengers to Madhya Pradesh. The Konkan Railway has provided the coaches for the train which will have Gwalior as its destination station. The South Goa district administration has requisitioned 16 KTC buses to ferry the stranded migrant labourers from Margao to Thivim. Sources said that the buses will depart early morning on Friday to reach Thivim well in time to board the train. The authorities were however tight-lipped over the train schedule fearing that it could trigger mass movement of migrants to the railway station. In South Goa, 427 people from six districts of Madhya Pradesh who registered with the state government to return to their native places, have been selected to board the first train. We don’t have money now, we are starving: WorkerSince Thursday morning, MP natives had begun gathering outside the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Fatorda, which is the pick-up point for them. “Passengers were screened by a medical team, and then accommodated inside the rooms in the stadium overnight,” a senior district administration official, who was overseeing the arrangement at the stadium, told TOI. Konkan Railway sources said a train with 20 coaches has been kept ready for departure at short notice. Each coach accommodates 54 passengers instead of its standard 72 seats to facilitate social distancing, sources said. Railway sources said the MP government had requisitioned trains to Jabalpur and Gwalior based on the data of stranded migrants shared by the state government with the “receiving state”. Senior Goa police officials visited the Tivim railway station on Thursday evening and took stock of the arrangements. Outside the Nehru stadium at Fatorda, however, it was a poignant picture of migrants desperate to be homebound. “We are ready to pay the fares once we reach our homes, but please get some arrangement done. We will sell our homes and pay the money if needed. We don’t have any money now and are literally starving,” said one from a group of 20 from Jabalpur. Asked why they wanted to leave Goa where they have been staying for years, one of them said, “Should we starve ourselves to death then? The house owners are threatening to throw us out on the streets if we don’t pay our rents.” Almost all of them at Fatorda had come walking 15-20km from various places in the scorching sun. But for them that was a small price to pay for their journey home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-special-train-to-leave-for-mp-today/articleshow/75612535.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 8, 2020||Erode||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614111.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Beware of liquor home delivery con: Chandrapur cops||CHANDRAPUR: Police department here has warned citizens against online cons tricking people in the name of home delivery of liquor in dry Chandrapur district. A fancy advertisement displaying colourful liquor bottles and a bunch of phone numbers is doing rounds on Facebook and other social media with claims of providing home delivery of booze in Chandrapur, cyber cell of the police department informed. With people forced to stay at home due to nationwide lockdown, liquor has become a rarer commodity in the district. Even illicitly-brewed liquor is not available to those ready to pay tenfold rates. Taking advantage of the situation, some tricksters have stepped in to deceive people in the name liquor home delivery. Cyber cops said an advertisement displaying Call Me for Home Delivery is viral on social media. There are three phone numbers ( 9101198078, 9783940768, 9982852964) with pictures of racks of liquor bottles. After coming across such advertisement on social media, cyber cell investigated the claims. Primary investigations have revealed that all these phone numbers are being operated from out of Maharashtra. Police made a call on the phone numbers posing as dummy customers. The ‘home delivery service provider’ asked for depositing some sum in advance and claimed that remaining sum will have to paid at the time of home delivery of liquor. It is standard operating procedure of online cons to trick unsuspecting citizens, cyber cell officials said. Police have warned people there is no possibility of home delivery of liquor in Chandrapur. In fact, there are all chances that those seeking such services could get themselves duped. Cops have urged people not to fall prey to such social media advertisements and never make any online payment without verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beware-of-liquor-home-delivery-con-chandrapur-cops/articleshow/75611854.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||Drunk man stones labourer to death in Baran||A 50-year-old labourer was stoned to death on Wednesday night in Misai village under Kishanganj police station of Baran district, after a scuffle erupted between him and the accused while both were consuming liquor at a construction site owned by the accused’s brother. The deceased was identified as Chaganlal Koli (50), a resident of Kishanganj town of Baran. He was working as a labourer at a construction site owned by Ravi Sahariya, who is the brother of the accused in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drunk-man-stones-labourer-to-death-in-baran/articleshow/75611841.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Bihar workers in Jodhpur struggle to go back home||JODHPUR: Migrant workers continue to suffer despite tall claims made by the state government that they are being taken care of right from accommodation to transportation. At least some of these workers, who have been loitering across the city knocking on the doors of the administration for a definitive response, suggest so. This group of about 50 workers, all from Bihar who were earlier working at the Barmer oil refinery site in Pachpadra, was found assembled at the district collectorate in anticipation of some solution on Thursday. “We had left the refinery site a week ago and walked to Jodhpur, a distance of 100km. We wanted to go back to Bihar,” said one Pradeep Kumar from Darbhanga. He said that they had been sitting idle with no work and food after their contractor left them to fend for themselves. “He told us that he was not in position to take care of us and left us with no alternative than to leave for our homes,” Kumar said. He said they had been seeking help from police and the administration and even went to bus station to explore possibilities for travel to their homes, but all in vain. “It has been five days since we reached Jodhpur and have been stranded here with no means to proceed further. We have no place to stay and have been managing on footpaths and other public places,” he added. Interestingly, in their 100km march from Pachpadra to Jodhpur, they were not intercepted anywhere enroute, which pointed to the glaring negligence of the administration. Two days ago, too, a group of 15 workers from the same venue walked to Jodhpur uninterrupted with no inquiry or questioning on the check-posts meant to be set up for migrant movement. This group belonged to MP and had been engaged in civil work at the Pachpadra refinery, but like the former group, they were also left to fend for themselves by their contractor. But refuting the allegations of these workers, SDM (Balotra) Rohit Kumar said they have been leaving willingly and not because of their contractor. “Work at the refinery has not stopped. All kind of civil work at the site was in progress. These workers have been leaving on their will,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bihar-workers-in-jodhpur-struggle-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75611849.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 8, 2020||Trichy||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614113.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||All faiths fight Covid-19 together||KOLKATA/MIDNAPORE: Bharat Sevasram Sangha Hospital in Joka, Al Amin nursing home in Bashirhat and St Joseph Hospital in Midnapore, all run by trusts, have blurred the religious divide as Bengal tries to put in place a network of 68 Covid-hospitals state-wide. These three hospitals are part of 37 private hospitals and nursing homes that have offered their facilities to the state government. CMOH (Bashirhat) Debabrata Mukherjee said: “We have received cooperation from the Al Amin nursing home authority. It had 30 beds, we are trying to scale it up to 50. The hospital has already started treating patients but there has been no Covid-positive cases till now.” CMOH (South 24-Parganas) Somanth Mukhopadhyay added: “After the state order, we had approached the Bharat Sevasram Sangha hospital authorities. We have received all cooperation. However, we have decided to convert the facility to a Covid-hospital in the last stage if the number of cases outnumber the facilities we already have.” “We have been told that this will be a Covid hospital for Jhargram. However, because there have been no cases in Jhargram till now, we have been asked to continue with our normal operations. We also treat cancer, TB and have proper diagnostic facility,” said Tapas Francis Biswas, director, St Joseph’s hospital in Midnapore. According to a state government notification on April 30, 67 hospitals – 37 private and the rest government facilities – have been identified as Covid hospitals. “Several of them have already started functioning full time. Several hospitals have also treated and discharged Covid positive patients,” an officer said, adding, “The help and cooperation extended by the private facilities instils a lot of hope.” “Every district will have a secondary Covid hospital facility for the primary treatment,” the officer said. “The state has made this clear that this is a temporary measure to fight the pandemic. Specialised Covid treatment facilities will help ensure that the non-Covid healthcare system gets back to normalcy. The Covid hospitals have been earmarked based on their intensive care and ventilator facilities. All these facilities have some amount of beds kept aside for critical Covid patients,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-faiths-fight-covid-together/articleshow/75610734.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Online admission on cards amid lockdown||KOLHAPUR: The primary education department of the Kolhapur zilla parishad has resorted to online admission process for over 1,900 schools across the district amid the ongoing lockdown, said district primary education officer Asha Ubale. She said that a few private schools, too, have started with the online admission process. According to Ubale, more guidelines about the commencement of the academic year are awaited from the higher authorities. She said that the results of Class I to Class IX will be sent by respective schools on WhatsApp. Secondary education officer Kiran Lohar said that they too have asked the schools to send confirmation of results to parents via online mode so that the unnecessary visit to schools can be avoided. He said that they are awaiting any kind of confirmation on the commencement of academic year so far. “Generally, schools in Kolhapur district start from June 15.However, it seems highly unlikely this year. We are, therefore, awaiting instructions from the state government on the same,” he said. He said that the admission process for high schools can be resumed once there are clear instructions on the beginning of the academic activities. The class XI admission process, too, will be decided once the details regarding the Class X results is made clear. Ramesh More, a member of Kolhapur city and district citizens’ action committee, said that they are keeping an eye on the online admission process and are also keeping a close eye on various demands of schools, including payment of complete fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/online-admission-on-cards-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75609217.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Puducherry||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614109.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Salem||As Covid-19 cases surge past 5,000 in TN, experts warn of Tasmac cluster||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 580 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,409. As the number of cases soared in the state capital and its neighbouring districts, all linked to the Koyambedu cluster, epidemiologists and public health experts warned that the crowds at liquor shops that opened on Thursday could result in another cluster and another surge in infections. “What we saw in Tasmac shops reminded us of the rush to Koyamedu market as soon as the state announced the lockdown. All social distancing norms were violated. We will see the ramifications in four to five days in the form of a new cluster,” said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Of the new cases, 316 were recorded in Chennai, taking the city’s count to 2,644. All its neighbours registered fresh cases – Tiruvallur recorded 63 cases taking its score to 192, Chengalpet recorded 13 cases taking its total to 158, and Kancheepuram recorded two cases taking its total to 89. The Koyambedu cluster continued to impact at least 22 districts including Villupuram (45 new cases), Perambalur (33), Cuddalore (32) and Ariyalur (24). Krishnagiri reported four cases. The state’s toll rose to 37 with two deaths – a 56-year-old woman admitted to Kilpauk Medical College died on Wednesday while a 48-year-old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors said both the patients had comorbidities. At least 800 more people were tested on Thursday compared to Wednesday. The state said tests were done for 14,102 people on Thursday compared to 13,281 on Wednesday. According to the data from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai has done 2,476 tests per million compared to the national average of 983. On a comparative scale, Maharastra has done 1,549 tests per million, Delhi 3,578, AP has done 2,845, Kerala 977 and Gujarat 1,339. TN has also seen at least 63 positive cases per million compared to the national average of 38. The directorate of public health announced, that like Greater Chennai Corporation, the state will also revise the testing protocol. As per the new protocol all family contacts of patients tested positive will undergo mandatory testing. All extended contacts, visitors and co-workers will be quarantined for 14 days and tested if they develop symptoms of the viral infections such as fever, breathlessness or cough. If the extended contacts are above 60 years of age or have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease or asthma, they will be taken for tests. Besides this, anyone admitted to hospitals with severe respiratory distress or those with flu-like-symptoms will be tested. All pregnant women will have to be tested a week before the expected date of delivery. “Revision is also there in treatment strategy,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthy asymptomatic individuals testing positive can be in quarantine at home as long as the treating doctor agrees and notifies it to the public health authority. “We will be giving all patients a kit comprising masks, zinc and vitamins besides nilavembu and kabasura kudineer,” he said. As many as 31 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Thursday while 3,822 patients were still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/as-cases-surge-past-5000-in-tn-experts-warn-of-tasmac-cluster/articleshow/75614114.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 12 more BSF jawans test coronavirus positive in Jodhpur||JODHPUR/JAISALMER: Twelve more BSF jawans tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a day after 30 from the force found infected in Jodhpur on Wednesday. Report of these jawans was released by the medical and health department on Thursday afternoon. With this, 42 jawans from a BSF battalion of 57, have tested positive of coronavirus. This battalion was called to Jodhpur from Delhi on Monday. The remaining 15 BSF jawans who have tested negative have been sent to quarantine in BSF centre. To help the district administration, the BSF prepared a 300-bed Covid-19 care centre at its training centre in Jodhpur. A BSF official said that samples of all the 57 jawans had been taken after the battalion was shifted to STC quarantine centre of BSF in Jodhpur. DIG of BSF Rajasthan Frontier M S Rathore said, “Samples of all 57 jawans were taken. The reports of 30 out of 44 received on Wednesday identified them as positive, while 14 tested negative. The report of remaining 13 jawans received on Thursday found 12 as positive and one as negative.” All who tested positive have been admitted in the AIIMS, Jodhpur, for treatment while those tested negative will remain in quarantine centre for 14 days period. This battalion, which had been deputed at Jama Masjid during the Tablighi Jamat incident in Delhi, where some of them had been tested positive. After this, the entire battalion was called to Jodhpur considering better and adequate facilities at its STC quarantine centre. On the other hand, with regard to officials and jawans at local level, BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha, however, said that no other jawan at the local level in Jodhpur has been found infected so far and every possible measure has been taken to ensure that infection enter at local level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/12-more-bsf-jawans-test-positive/articleshow/75611858.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Industrial tragedy a constant in past 1 decade||Visakhapatnam: The City of Destiny may fast be turning into a city of industrial accidents. Over the past eight decades, Vizag city has grown into a major industrial hub on the east coast, with both public and private sector companies setting up base here. While it has become an industrial nerve centre, helped by its proximity to a mining zone and railway-port connectivity, growth has come at a cost in the form of an increasing number of and growing scale of industrial accidents in the city. Over the last decade, the city has witnessed a number of major and minor industrial accidents resulting in more than 54 deaths and several injured, as well as growing concerns about the environment. With the recent industrial accident at LG Polymers so far claiming 11 lives, activists and citizens have questioned the manner in which industrial growth of the city is being propelled. Former bureaucrat and activist EAS Sarma said, “Relaxing environmental clearance procedures and encouraging polluting industries in the name of easing of business is responsible for the mess.” On the need for stringent measures to ensure that industries do not flout norms, Sarma added, “IPC proceedings and heavy civil penalties are called for.” Director of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE)-Visakhapatnam Dr Prasad Veerapaneni called for stringent monitoring measures, constant drills and training and a more professional attitude from human resources. Dr Veerappaneni said, “It is time for India to have a permanent accident monitoring unit concerning ‘red category’industries instead of setting up committees to submit reports after accidents have taken place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/industrial-tragedy-a-constant-in-past-1-decade/articleshow/75610754.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 8, 2020||Jaipur||CM, Pilot express grief over Vizag tragedy||Edited (140) Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday expressed grief over the Visakhapatnam gas leak tragedy that killed 11 persons and affected over 1,000 people. “Shocked to know about the terrible Vizag gas leak tragedy. My condolences to the bereaved families who lost their loved ones. May God give them strength to bear this loss. Prayers for the speedy recovery of those injured,” Gehlot said. Pilot called the incident “sad and unfortunate”. “It is very sad and unfortunate that many people died in an accident caused by the poisonous gas leaking from the factory of a multinational company in Visakhapatnam,” Pilot said. He prayed for strength to the family members of those who lost their lives and wished speedy recovery of the injured. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje also expressed grief over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-pilot-express-grief-over-vizag-tragedy/articleshow/75611863.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Collecting throat swabs of people returning from red zones a must||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai has given clear instructions to officials to collect the throat swab samples of all those coming to Kolhapur from districts falling in the red zone. Desai said that every village in the district had been communicated about the directive. “Until the results of the throat swab samples arrive, the returnees will be kept under institutional quarantine,” he said adding that the action was being taken to contain the spread of the virus and ensure the safety of the citizens. Those who are coming from the orange and green zones will have to undergo thermal screening. Only if they are found fit, will they be stamped with home-quarantine on their hands. According to Desai, the villages across the district have already been told to prepare facilities for institutional quarantine, given the huge number of citizens returning home. The district administration has directed each village to set up a quarantine facility that can accommodate upto 50 people and also make provisions for food and sanitation. Officials from the district administration said that all the individuals, who would be put in either institutional or home-quarantine, would be monitored to check if they have developed any symptoms of Covid-19. State minister for public health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said while collecting throat swab samples of citizens coming from red zones was difficult in other parts of the state, it could be done in Kolhapur as the city has two Covid-19 testing laboratories, which can test up to 300 samples a day. Yadravkar said that the medical teams have been alerted about the flow of people coming to the city and have been told to keep a regular watch over symptomatic individuals. While over 15,000 people have applied for coming to Kolhapur district, over 25,000 have applied for leaving from the district for their hometowns in other districts or states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collecting-throat-swabs-of-people-returning-from-red-zones-a-must/articleshow/75609226.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Residents fume as Kanan Nagar locality sealed||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has sealed the roads leading to Kanan Nagar area and declared it as containment zone after a person from the area was found positive for Covid-19 on May 2, posing great inconvenience to the residents of the area. The residents say that the man who was found positive had barely visited their locality after coming from Mumbai and that there was no need to lock their area. The area falls in the heart of the city and people risiding inside Kanan Nagar and other parts of the city are facing problems while using the the road. The major roads leading to district collectorate and to the Central Bus Stand from Nagala park area are also sealed. According to government officials, the person after returning from Mumbai had stayed at Kanan Nagar for a couple of hours and went to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital, where he tested positive for Covid-19. The area, mostly slums, has a population of around 10,000 people and is surrounded by upscale localities like Tarabai Park, Nagala Park and New Shahupuri. More than 12 roads, all major and minor, connecting Kanan Nagar with other parts of the city have been barricaded. “Kanan Nagar will continue to be containment zone and the restrictions will continue for some more days as a precautionary measure. We are ensuring that the residents are supplied with essential commodities and taking steps to ensure that no one from the area mixes with other parts of the city,” said a civic official. “We are already staying at home due to the lockdown and there was no need to put barricades in Kanan Nagar. We are unable to move out to purchase the commodities other than essential commodities from market,” said a resident. “The barricades on the main road leading to the district collectorate force us to take a detour to reach other parts of the. Small roads leading to Kanan Nagar should be barricaded, not the main roads,” said Rupesh Shinde, a resident of Tarabai Park area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/residents-fume-as-kanan-nagar-locality-sealed/articleshow/75609238.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Mysuru||Nanjangud report submitted in haste: Minister||MYSURU: District minister ST Somashekar on Thursday said that IAS officer Harsh Gupta submitted his report on the Nanjangud cluster case in a hurry and indicated that it should have been probed thoroughly. “Gupta said that it was late when he was asked to probe the incident. After his appointment to probe the mysterious case, I’d informed him that I will sit with him along with the Mysuru DC and SP and discuss the issue. But he has gone ahead with the report,” he said. Asked about Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan’s charges that the government is not serious in the probe, the minister said there is nothing to cover up. “We also want to get to the bottom of it,” he said. Somashekar said the source of the virus is now believed to be an employee who had met Tablighi Jamaat returnees at Thanisandra in Bengaluru. This negates the theory that P-52 is patient zero, he said, asserting that it is difficult to come to a conclusion. The minister said he is focussing on making Mysuru green zone and want the CM to approach the Centre to reclassify the district from red to orange zone. Somashekar said Mysuru could get to orange zone in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nanjangud-report-submitted-in-haste-minister/articleshow/75613128.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Goa||KTC ferries Diu students home, brings Goans back||Panaji: The Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) ran its special relief bus to ferry 21 students who had come to Goa prior to the lockdown, back to their hometown in Diu. The bus left from Goa on Wednesday night and dropped the students to their destination following an overnight journey. “The passengers were tested with a handheld thermal scanner and only after confirming their temperature, they were allowed to board the bus. The bus reached Silvassa by 4pm on Thursday,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. On Tuesday night, 18 students from the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Valpoi who wanted to return to their home in Delhi, were picked up by KTC from their institute and dropped halfway at the JNV Institute in Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh. They reached the destination at 6am on Thursday. At JNV Ratlam, 13 Goan students who were stuck in JNV, Delhi had already arrived and were waiting for KTC to take them back home. Furtado said that the exchange of students has taken place at Ratlam. “The Goan students left from Ratlam at 4pm on Thursday. They will be brought safely back home very soon,” he said. Besides this, eight KTC buses carrying over 60 migrants had left on Wednesday to drop them at the Polem border. There, a bus by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was to take them back to their home. Sources said that the police at the border checkpost did not permit them to carry out the exchange since a majority of them didn’t have an Aadhaar card. The few that had the identity proof were permitted passage. “We were asked for the buses, which were provided. The migrants were issued a travel permit by the North and South Goa collectors, based on which we allowed them to board the bus,” Furtado said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-ferries-diu-students-home-brings-goans-back/articleshow/75612553.cms||Nida Sayed
May 8, 2020||Goa||AAP: K’taka acted against humanity||Margao: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has termed the refusal of the Karnataka state government to allow its natives to proceed to their homes from the Karwar border as a move “against humanity”. “The reported return of some 64 migrants who were officially sent by the South Goa district administration by buses to Karnataka, after they were denied entry at the border, is a cruel act against humanity,” AAP spokesperson Sidharth Karapurkar said in a press release. He questioned the failure to address the issue even after the ministry of home affairs had permitted inter-border movement of the stranded persons. AAP said that the crisis had once again exposed the administration’s “insensitivity to the poor migrants’ woes”. The workers had been staying in shelter homes, waiting to return to their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-ktaka-acted-against-humanity/articleshow/75612558.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||State govt issues SOP for those returning from foreign countries||Ahmedabad: The state government on Thursday evening issued guidelines or standard operating procedure (SOP) for all those returning from foreign countries to Gujarat. A compulsory 14-day quarantine period for all those who have returned has been made mandatory. The whole process will be overlooked by the NRG division of the General Administration Department (GAD), while screening and responsibility of quarantining will be handled by the district development officer (DDO) Ahmedabad, who will co-ordinate with various district and nodal official designated for the purpose in the state. The medical team will first screen the passengers and isolate those with symptoms to government run Covid care centres or other designated areas. Those who do not show any symptoms will be sent to temporary mass quarantine facilities. These facilities are of two types — one paid and the other free — which will have to be determined by the passenger at the airport itself. The government is very particular, according to the notification, that no private quarantine facility will be allowed to the passenger during the compulsory isolation period. For those staying in mass quarantine centres, the necessary food arrangements during the stay will be made by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-issues-sop-for-those-returning-from-foreign-countries/articleshow/75610921.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Barricades on roads compel residents to take detour to hospital in Wanowrie||PUNE: For Salunkhe Vihar resident Prabhakar Gajare, a ride to Ruby Hall Clinic in Wanowrie was a matter of less than five minutes before the Covid-19 lockdown. Now, he has to take a 5km detour to take his mother to the hospital for check-up owing to barricades put up at several places to restrain the movement of vehicles. “So many roads have been barricaded. Crossing over to the Kedarinagar area is impossible with a vehicle. Now, I drive right up to the Lullanagar chowk, take a right and reach Wanowrie police chowky. Then I take a right turn and pass through different localities to reach the hospital. In all, I am driving nothing less than 6-7km to reach the clinic less than 1km away from my residence,” Gajare said. Bhomi Bhote, the CEO of the Ruby Hall clinic, agreed. “Everyone, including patients, are getting affected because of the barricades on roads. Reaching the clinic for many is a struggle now. We haven’t raised the concern with the police for now as we don’t want to interfere in their actions considering the current situation. But yes, people are getting affected,” he told TOI. Ikram Shaikh, another resident of the Salunke Vihar area, said, “Shivarkar Road and Oxford Village Society Road have been blocked. Just a week back, I had to rush my two-year-old son to our family doctor in the Kedarinagar area. I was riding a two-wheeler, while my wife, riding pillion, was holding our child. She wept as I tried finding a way to reach the clinic.” Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said the barricading near the Ruby Hall Clinic had been done by the Wanowrie police. “We have told them that people who have to go to the hospital are facing problems. However, they don’t want to remove the barricades immediately,” he said. The residents of the Anandnagar area on Sinhagad Road are also a hassled lot. The main Sun City road and a small lane leading to the Bramha hotel from the internal parts of the Anandnagar have been barricaded by the Sinhagad Road police. The residents have access to only one road leading to Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. “We have to travel to Warje or Dhayari for going to Pune city,” a resident said. The Kothrud police had earlier barricaded the lanes leading to the main roads. Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi issued orders to remove the barricades after some residents and authorities of a hospital complained about them. (With inputs from Mihir Tanksale and Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barricades-on-roads-compel-residents-to-take-detour-to-hospital-in-wanowrie/articleshow/75612550.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh kicks off door-to-door screening in rural areas||Ramgarh: The district administration on Thursday began the door-to-door medical scanning and temperature reading of residents in rural areas by deploying several teams with the help of a local NGO, Maitri. The team, designated as Covid-19 response team, comprised doctors and para-medics who fanned out in rural pockets of the district to take temperatures, deliver protective gear and grocery items, among others. Dr Malthi Char, gynaecologist and president of Maitri, said, “We are not only recording body temperature of the rural population but also delivering protective kits, which include masks, sanitizers and soaps, during the screening.” “The medical team has also been given grocery items, comprising 3kg rice, wheat flour, spices and green vegetables, for distribution among the poor families,” said K Ravikumar, secretary of the NGO. On May 8, the district administration has organised a health check-up camp for media persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-kicks-off-door-to-door-screening-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75609839.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Karnataka keeping our people like bonded workers: Oraon||Ranchi: Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Thursday said that their government will soon register a protest with their Karnataka counterpart after it cancelled all special trains to take migrants stranded in the southern state. He said that they will try to work out a way out to bring people stranded there. On Wednesday, a Shramik special train with 1,150 migrants from Jharkhand arrived at Barkakana junction in Ramgarh from Bengaluru early in the morning. The train left the Karnataka capital on Monday evening, a day before the B S Yeddyurappa government stopped all special trains from leaving city. He said, “When the inter-state movement of stranded migrants and people has been permitted, how can a state government stop anyone keen to return from coming back home. They are keeping our people there as bonded labourers. Our government will speak with the Karnataka government on this.” Oraon, who is also state Congress president, did not give any timeline but said he will write to AICC president Sonia Gandhi seeking intervention at central level to build pressure on Karnataka. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said that they are contacting the party’s Karnataka unit to resolve the issue. The ruling JMM also criticised Karnataka. Party's general secretary Supriyo Bhattarcharjee said, “The BJP-ruled Karnataka government’s decision is highly condemnable. This exposes how the BJP government is trying to engage Jharkhand migrants as bonded labourers. We demand central intervention in the matter.” Chief minister Hemant Soren has not yet responded on the issue even as several rights groups and stranded people tweeted to him. TOI’s calls to his office and aides went unanswered. Citing resumption of construction activities, the BJP-led government in Karnataka cancelled all special trains to ferry migrants. It is estimated that around 50,000 migrants from Jharkhand work in Karnataka as labourers and daily wagers. So far, only two trains from Karnataka have come to Jharhand, including one that departed before the curbs were imposed and reached Ramgarh on Thursday with more than 1,100 passengers. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of rights groups, criticised the Soren government for maintaining a silence on the issue. Siraj Datta, one of the conveners of the outfit, said, “We demand all the MLAs and MPs of Jharkhand and the state government to officially register their protest against the Karnataka government’s diktat. It is like forcefully keeping people captive. Those who want to come back should be allowed to.” He added, “The CM and the government led by him are yet to come up with a statement. Also, there is no clarity on the trains, their timings etc at the state level. We demand all schedules should be made public in public interest.” A senior bureaucrat engaged in coordinating with states, said, “As per MHA guidelines, movement of trains can happen only with consent of the two states involved. If the sender state decides to stop the trains, there isn’t much one can do immediately unless the two government’s sort out the matter. We recently had a similar problem with West Bengal, where our buses were stopped, which has now been resumed after hectic parleys.” Amid the impasse and uncertainty, several stranded migrants hailing from Jharkhand told TOI about their problems. Latehar resident Krishna Singh (25) said he was beaten up by police at Yeshwantpur station in Bengaluru two days ago when he reached with his other native peers to return to Jharkhand. Singh added he has lost his job at a plastic factory in Kacholi in Bengaluru where he worked for months. “The owner expressed inability to temporarily run the factory and asked to look for other options,” he said, adding that he is desperate to return home to his wife and daughter. “They are facing many problems in Latehar,” he said. Another migrant from Latehar, Gajendra Singh, said, “Despite filling up all the forms online and otherwise, we are not aware about our return. We were not even informed about the trains that left Bengaluru on Tuesday despite registering for the journey.” Deoghar-based Kuber Kumar Vishwakarma (26) who works at a gym equipment-manufacturing plant in Bebgaluru said, “I have not got my wages for April, but I want to return home as there is no one to take care of my elderly parents. Here, we are facing problems of food and other issues. Even the helplines don’t work properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/karnataka-keeping-our-people-like-bonded-workers-oraon/articleshow/75610742.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP chief Deepak Prakash has angioplasty after heart attack||Ranchi: BJP’s Jharkhand unit president Deepak Prakash underwent a coronary angioplasty at the cardiology unit of Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Thursday afternoon. The 60-year-old leader, who was appointed to the party’s top post in the state in February this year after BJP’s loss in the assembly polls, complained of uneasiness and breathlessness around 11am on Thursday. He was wheeled into the Rims cardiology unit around 11.45am. Speaking to TOI, Rims assistant professor Dr Prakash Kumar and Dr Anshul Gupta said: “The patient had come with a massive heart attack. After angiography, we went for angioplasty to remove a blockade in his right artery by inserting a stent.” Chief minister Hemant Soren drove to the cardiology unit to check on Prakash’s health. “Doctors at Rims did a wonderful job and provided timely treatment. I pray for his quick recovery,” Soren told journalists before leaving the hospital premises. Besides Soren, health minister Banna Gupta also visited the hospital. BJP’s national vice-president J P Nadda, too, enquired about Prakash’s health over the phone from his family members. A battery of BJP’s senior functionaries camped outside the cardiology unit at the hospital’s superspecialty block. Former CM Babulal Marandi, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, Kanke MLA Samri Lal, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra, deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargia and others visited the hospital. The saffron party, however, appealed to its functionaries and supporters to refrain from visiting the hospital to obey the lockdown orders. The plea, however, did not deter many who camped on the hospital premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-bjp-chief-deepak-prakash-has-angioplasty-after-heart-attack/articleshow/75610656.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||4,000 migrant workers arrive in Jharkhand from 4 states||RAMGARH/JAMSHEDPUR/SINDRI: More than 3,000 migrants reached various stations in Jharkhand on three Shramik special trains from Bengaluru (Karnataka), Hyderabad (Telangana) and Surat (Gujarat) on Thursday. More than 13,000 migrants, including 2,000 students, have now been brought back on 15 special trains from across the country since May 1. In Ramgarh, a train ferrying 1,150 migrants from Jharkhand and one from Sundargarh district in Odisha arrived at Barkakana junction from Bengaluru early in the morning. Senior district administration officials were at the station to ensure safety protocols were followed as the passengers deboarded the train before being sent to their home districts after being provided with masks, sanitizers and food packets. Of the passengers, 370 are from Garhwa district, 351 from Palamu district. Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh said, “The migrants were received following social distancing norms and were sent to their destinations in vehicles provided by their respective district administrations. The lone passenger from Odisha has been kept under quarantine until there a vehicle is arranged.” Anjay Tiwari, divisional traffic manager (DTM), East Central Railway (ECR) in Barkakana, said, “The special train departed from Bengluru on Monday evening and reached Barkakana on Thursday at 4 am.” The train left the Karnataka capital a day before the B S Yeddyurappa government in the southern state stopped all special trains from leaving Bengaluru. In Jamshedpur, 879 migrants from 17 different districts in Jharkhand reached Tatanagar from Ghatkesar station in Hyderabad. The same protocol was followed before they were sent to their destinations on 34 buses. Majority of the passengers was from Palamu (398), followed by Garhwa (231) and Latehar (92). One migrant, a resident of Chakulia, has been shifted to Kadma quarantine center. A third train, from Surat, reached Dhanbad with 1,198 workers from on Thursday. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said 1,094 passengers were from Giridih, 30 from Koderma, 29 from Palamu, 11 from Hazaribag, seven from Deoghar, five from Chatra, three from Latehar and two from Garhwa. They were sent to their respective districts by buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4k-migrant-workers-arrive-in-jharkhand-from-4-states/articleshow/75609843.cms||N K Agarwal
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Tribal woman kills PLFI leader in Gumla||Gumla: A middle-age tribal woman and a homemaker, Binita Oraon, killed a dreaded PLFI area commander, identified as Basant Gope (32), in self-defence after the latter along with five others barged inside her house late on Tuesday night, police said on Thursday. Police said there will be no charges against the woman since she acted in self-defence. According to sources, the body of the deceased was found at Pujar Bagicha, a field located some distance away from the woman’s house in Brinda Nayaktoli village in Gumla. Gumla SDPO Pran Ranjan said, “The woman acted in self-defence and for safety of her family members. Hence, there will be no case against her.” Another police official said the deceased had unleashed terror in the area and was facing several cases of murder and extortion, among others. Bhim Oraon, husband of the woman, said Gope along with five others had barged into his house late on Tuesday night and opened fire. He said, “Two years ago, Gope had killed my father for not paying his extortion demand of Rs 50,000. My father was the gram pradhan and secretary of village-level watershed scheme.” He added, “We had filed an FIR against Gope and since then, we are under his radar. This time, he and his men barged into my house and asked me to come out, threatening to kill me and my family members, if we don’t. That’s when my wife Binita, out of panic, hit him with an axe from behind the door. Soon after the incident, the rebels fired a few more rounds and ran out along with Gope, who was injured, but abandoned him after he died.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-woman-kills-plfi-leader-in-gumla/articleshow/75610714.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||3 seniors discharged, Bokaro now free of Covid-19||Bokaro: A 75-year-old man from Telo village in Chandrapura block and two patients above 65 from Sadam village in Gomia block were discharged from Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) after they recovered from Covid-19 on Thursday. Bokaro district, which had reported 10 positive cases last month, is now coronavirus-free with nine patients discharged and one dead. The deceased, who succumbed before he was diagnosed with the virus, was the state’s first Covid-19 casualty. The three patients were infected by their family members who returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizammuddin in Delhi on March 18. Officials said all three were asymtomatic. Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar praised the efforts of BGH doctors and said, “We don’t have any coronavirus patient in Bokaro. However, it is hard to say anything about the future, but we are ready to deal promptly, if any new cases are detected.” A BGH doctor treating the patients said, “Apart from strictly monitoring their health, we ensured that the three elderly patients get timely healthy diet and provided vitamin capsules. We also administered antibiotics to them and were released on Thursday after they were cured.” BGH medical director Dr A K Singh said the recovery of nine patients, including the three elderly persons and an 8-year-old girl, was a big success for his team. He said, “It was possible with strict monitoring of the patients’ health condition and creating a positive environment for them. All patients also cooperated well.” Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said the war against the pandemic is still not over for them. “There are about 20,000 migrant workers, students and others who arrived or on their way back to Bokaro and we have intensified sampling tests,” he said. Meanwhile, one patient from Simdega was also declared cured on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-seniors-discharged-bokaro-now-free-of-covid-19/articleshow/75609989.cms||Divy Khare
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||TB diagnosis machines for Covid-19 tests in all districts soon||Ranchi: With migrants arriving to Jharkhand thick and fast, the state government on Wednesday said it is working to install Covid-19 testing machines in each district. Principal secretary of the state health medical education and family welfare department, Nitin Madan Kulkarni, said the government has placed orders for procuring Trunet machines from the Centre for installing them in the districts. Trunet machines are used for testing tuberculosis. Recently, the ICMR approved the use of Trunet machines for Covid-19 testing. “With migrants returning and many of them from red zones, we need to ramp up our testing. Trunets are imported machines and their procurement takes time. However, we are hopeful of getting eight such machines by next week,” Kulkarni said. With number of positive cases standing at 125 till evening, Kulkarni said the government has identified 46 containment zones which encompasses 72,000 households. “Over 8,000 samples have been collected so far from these zones,” he added. Stating that Jharkhand’s mortality rate was less than that of the national average, Kulkarni said less than 1% of the total persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far. He also claimed that community transmission has not occurred in Jharkhand so far. Talking tough on the matter of pregnant women being turned back from hospitals, Kulkarni said the department has issued instructions to all districts to put necessary measures in place for the 52,000-odd pregnant women who are scheduled for delivery this month. “All institutions have been asked to screen them for Covid-19 in advance,” he added. Kulkarni said government and private health providers have been asked to resume their services to treat patients suffering from other ailments. “The guidelines kept hospitals and labs out of the purview of lockdown. However, we received reports of many of them turning patients away. This will not be tolerated at any cost. All deputy commissioners and IMA have been asked to ensure they are functional,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tb-diagnosis-machines-for-covid-19-tests-in-all-districts-soon/articleshow/75586261.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Kolhan Univ’s NSS cadets feed jobless labourers in Steel City||Jamshedpur: National Service Scheme (NSS) cadets of Kolhan University, with support from a private firm, RSB Foundation have been feeding daily wagers at Baba Tilka Majhi Basti here after they were rendered jobless because of the lockdown. Every day, the cadets distribute cooked meals for them, who live along the banks of Domuhani in Sonari rivers, since April 5. A senate member of the university, Amitabh Senapati, who coordinated with the firm for arranging the meals, said, “The idea behind this initiative was to make sure that these labourers, who used to work in construction companies before the lockdown came into force, do not have to go elsewhere in search of food.” S K Behera, chairman of RSB Foundation, said supporting the NSS initiative is part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility. “When the NSS approached us, we readily agreed to utilise the canteen at our plant in Adityapur, which has been shut owing to the lockdown, to prepare the food and help the NSS cadets in supplying it to the poor,” Behera added. Gram pradhan Chunaram Baske said every day, around seven youths distribute food among the needy and also encourage them to abide by the sanitation protocols. Expressing her gratitude to the NSS, a 36-year-old labourer said, “We hope the NSS will continue with the supply of meals because there’s no scope of resuming the building construction work if the lockdown is extended.” Prashant Kumar Mishra, the 20-year-old BCA student at KU, said they are keen on continuing with the initiative in the loaclity for more than 40 days, but with a few government agencies serving meals in that area, they are now planning to shift elsewhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kolhan-univs-nss-cadets-feed-jobless-labourers-in-steel-city/articleshow/75609910.cms||B Sridhar
May 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||Five new cases as Jharkhand does 1,000 tests in a day||RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: Five migrant workers who returned to their homes in Palamu from Chhattisgarh in an autorickshaw on May 1 tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus cases to 132. Of these, 89 are active cases while 41 have recovered and two have died during treatment. This is the second instance of returning migrants testing positive. On Wednesday, two persons returned who returned to Dumka from Gurgaon tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Jharkhand for the first time tested more than a thousand samples on a single day, surpassing the 750 figure on May 5. A total of 1,7101 samples have been tested in the state so far. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Five people from Palamu district tested positive for covid-19 on Thursday. Samples from all other districts turned out to be negative.” The five patients are residents of Manatu, Noudiha and Patan blocks in Palamu district and were quarantined at a centre set up at Palamu Medical College Hospital upon their arrival from Chhattisgarh. Talking to TOI, Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said: “All five were under quarantine since their arrival, when they were spotted by authorities near the Chainpur border. Four are men in their early 20s and the fifth is a 30-year-old woman. All of them are asymptomatic.” Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “All five had travelled on an autorickshaw and its driver has also been quarantined. We are monitoring his health and no one will be allowed to leave until their samples test negative.” The district administration has begun contact tracing and identified 12 persons whose samples will be collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/5-new-cases-as-jharkhand-does-1k-tests-in-a-day/articleshow/75621630.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin issues SOP for transit of migrant workers||Ranchi: To contain the spread of coronavirus by migrants returning home from various parts of the country, the Ranchi district administration on Thursday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for transit of migrants and directed officials from the district to block levels to ensure its strict implementation. According to an official communiqué on the SOP, people passing through the district in their own vehicles will be allowed, but those entering the district on foot or bicycles will have to undergo compulsory medical screening and put in home isolation, shelter homes or quarantine centres based on their test results. Moreover, their travel history, including the different zones, will be recorded for subsequent action. Talking to TOI, Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “We will allow people to pass through the city if they are in their personal vehicles, but if someone enters Ranchi’s borders on foot or bicycle, we will conduct a medical examination. And if they are coming from red zones, their swab samples will be collected and we will put them in quarantine centres. People from orange and green zones will be sent for home quarantine after a medical examination.” He said the SOP was issued after a review meeting with the district-level task force on Covid-19. After the meeting, Ray took stock of preparedness of various cells working for combating the pandemic. The cells reviewed looked after the control room to call centres, ration and LPG distribution, transportation, logistics, quarantine and isolation centres, home delivery, CM kitchens, law and order and shelter homes located in the city as well as in border areas. Ray also gave fresh instructions after reviewing their progress. In a directive, Ray asked all nodal officials to step up their work, keeping the gravity of the situation in mind, and said special stress should be given on movement of migrants. He added officers should put focus on their screening, surveillance and their origin of travel. Ray further said there will be blanket ban of any kind on movement between two containment zones and if any block of the district receives a person from a red zone, their samples will be collected immediately and they will be sent to a quarantine centre (home or institutional) based on their test results. Ray also directed the law and order cell to continue follow-up of people with foreign travel history through their respective police stations and said the lockdown will be implemented strictly in Hindpiri area. Officials manning the border areas were also instructed to step up vigil and follow guidelines of social distancing to prevent any further spread of Covid-19 in the district. To ensure strict implementation of the guidelines in rural areas, Ray directed all block development and circle officers to hold a meeting with mukhiyas and village-level functionaries so that any person coming from outside is reported. “Detailed information of each person entering district boundaries has to be maintained so that we can identify carriers of the viral infection, if any. The list must be updated every day and information should be made available with nodal heads in a routine manner,” Ray said in his directive to the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-issues-sop-for-transit-of-migrant-workers/articleshow/75610693.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Advocates’ panel to provide aid to members||Ranchi: The Advocate Welfare Trustee Committee will extend financial aid of up to Rs 5,000 to its members in the state who are facing economic hardship due to the prolonged lockdown. In an affidavit filed before an HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice S N Prasad, the Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) said the advocates’ committee has decided to give financial assistance to its members. The committee has forwarded the proposal to JSBC for approval and will take a decision on the issue shortly. Chairman of JSBC Rajendra Krishna, who took part in the proceeding, said, “The submission was made during a hearing on a host of PILs related to advocates’ welfare. The benefits will be provided to the lawyers immediately after a decision is taken.” Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said, “The committee will give assistance up to Rs 5,000 to its needy members.” Notably, the Bar Council of India (BCI) had informed the HC that it will allocate Rs 45 lakh to provide for basic requirement of the lawyers facing difficulties during the lockdown. The JSBC has also promised to allocate fund from its reserve to provide foodgrains, medicines and other necessities to the lawyers. The court also directed that the state should frame rules for the Advocates’ Clerks Welfare Act. In another hearing of a PIL regarding a mentally challenged child, the division bench disposed it off after providing relief. The 11-year-old child was reportedly kept tied to a pillar for the past seven years in Bhandaria police station area of Garwah district. Lawyer Manoj Tandon, who filed the PIL, said, “Upon direction of the high court, the district legal service authority, Garwah, has freed the child and provided him with cloth, food and medical treatment at a local hospital. The DLSA secretary has submitted an affidavit to this effect before the bench.” Meanwhile, The Jharkhand high court has cancelled its summer vacation, which was scheduled from May 18 to June 6. A notification in this regard has been uploaded on its official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/advocates-panel-to-provide-aid-to-members/articleshow/75609946.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||4,000 migrant workers arrive in Jharkhand from 4 states||RAMGARH/JAMSHEDPUR/SINDRI: More than 3,000 migrants reached various stations in Jharkhand on three Shramik special trains from Bengaluru (Karnataka), Hyderabad (Telangana) and Surat (Gujarat) on Thursday. More than 13,000 migrants, including 2,000 students, have now been brought back on 15 special trains from across the country since May 1. In Ramgarh, a train ferrying 1,150 migrants from Jharkhand and one from Sundargarh district in Odisha arrived at Barkakana junction from Bengaluru early in the morning. Senior district administration officials were at the station to ensure safety protocols were followed as the passengers deboarded the train before being sent to their home districts after being provided with masks, sanitizers and food packets. Of the passengers, 370 are from Garhwa district, 351 from Palamu district. Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh said, “The migrants were received following social distancing norms and were sent to their destinations in vehicles provided by their respective district administrations. The lone passenger from Odisha has been kept under quarantine until there a vehicle is arranged.” Anjay Tiwari, divisional traffic manager (DTM), East Central Railway (ECR) in Barkakana, said, “The special train departed from Bengluru on Monday evening and reached Barkakana on Thursday at 4 am.” The train left the Karnataka capital a day before the B S Yeddyurappa government in the southern state stopped all special trains from leaving Bengaluru. In Jamshedpur, 879 migrants from 17 different districts in Jharkhand reached Tatanagar from Ghatkesar station in Hyderabad. The same protocol was followed before they were sent to their destinations on 34 buses. Majority of the passengers was from Palamu (398), followed by Garhwa (231) and Latehar (92). One migrant, a resident of Chakulia, has been shifted to Kadma quarantine center. A third train, from Surat, reached Dhanbad with 1,198 workers from on Thursday. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said 1,094 passengers were from Giridih, 30 from Koderma, 29 from Palamu, 11 from Hazaribag, seven from Deoghar, five from Chatra, three from Latehar and two from Garhwa. They were sent to their respective districts by buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/4k-migrant-workers-arrive-in-jharkhand-from-4-states/articleshow/75621687.cms||N K Agarwal
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Babulal urges Hemant to lower Covid test cost at pvt labs||Ranchi: Former chief minister and BJP’s leader of legislative party, Babulal Marandi on Thursday asked chief minister Hemant Soren to lower the price for blood and swab testing for the novel coronavirus in designated private pathological laboratories. In a letter to Soren, Marandi said the state department of health, medical education and family welfare’s decision to fix the price for Covid-19 sampling in private labs at Rs 4,500 was exorbitant. “The lockdown has hurt the finances of people. It is known to all that Jharkhand is a fairly backward state. Under these circumstances, charging such high amount is uncalled for,” Marandi wrote. On May 1, principal health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni issued a circular stating that four pathological —Dr Lal Pathlabs, SRL Limited, Pathkind Diagnostics Pvt Limited and Core Diagnostics – have been permitted to collect and test samples for Covid-19 under ICMR guidelines. In his letter, Kulkarni said the labs can charge up to Rs 4,500 for testing. “People can pay from their pockets to get tested at these labs. Private labs will work in tandem with the civil surgeons of various districts and the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program,” Kulkarni wrote. Marandi on Thursday attached a notification issued by Karnataka government to his letter to point out its decision of charging people of Rs 2,250 for testing at private facilities. “My suggestion would be that the government must provide subsidies to these private labs to speed up the process of testing. Once the crisis is over, it can fix a reasonable rate,” the former CM wrote. Speaking to TOI, health minister Banna Gupta said: “The matter has come to my notice. I will take a look at the rates and take a call soon.” Gupta, however, said erring private hospitals and laboratories will draw strict action, if they turn back patients on the pretext of the novel coronavirus. “The ICMR has issued clear guidelines on testing for Covid-19 in emergency cases. The facilities that refuse to patients will have their licence cancelled,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babulal-urges-hemant-to-lower-covid-test-cost-at-pvt-labs/articleshow/75610378.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Ranchi||Five new cases as Jharkhand does 1,000 tests in a day||RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: Five migrant workers who returned to their homes in Palamu from Chhattisgarh in an autorickshaw on May 1 tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus cases to 132. Of these, 89 are active cases while 41 have recovered and two have died during treatment. This is the second instance of returning migrants testing positive. On Wednesday, two persons returned who returned to Dumka from Gurgaon tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Jharkhand for the first time tested more than a thousand samples on a single day, surpassing the 750 figure on May 5. A total of 1,7101 samples have been tested in the state so far. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Five people from Palamu district tested positive for covid-19 on Thursday. Samples from all other districts turned out to be negative.” The five patients are residents of Manatu, Noudiha and Patan blocks in Palamu district and were quarantined at a centre set up at Palamu Medical College Hospital upon their arrival from Chhattisgarh. Talking to TOI, Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari said: “All five were under quarantine since their arrival, when they were spotted by authorities near the Chainpur border. Four are men in their early 20s and the fifth is a 30-year-old woman. All of them are asymptomatic.” Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “All five had travelled on an autorickshaw and its driver has also been quarantined. We are monitoring his health and no one will be allowed to leave until their samples test negative.” The district administration has begun contact tracing and identified 12 persons whose samples will be collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-new-cases-as-jharkhand-does-1k-tests-in-a-day/articleshow/75609906.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 8, 2020||India||‘Dr Saifullah’ of Wani gang may head Hizb now||SRINAGAR: As many as 27 operations were launched against terrorists in the Kashmir Valley with 64 of them being eliminated, including Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo, inspector general of J&K police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said on Thursday. The security forces worked in complete synergy with J&K police and 25 terrorists were also arrested, Kumar said. “Police were searching for slain Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo for the past six months and ultimately we succeeded in tracing him,” he told reporters in Pulwama during his visit to the district after Naikoo’s killing. Referring to violent protests by some people, seen as Hizb sympathisers, he said, “After Wednesday’s encounter, there was a law and order situation at the encounter site in Beighpora. A few people were injured and some of them sustained bullet injuries.” Naikoo’s death has left a serious void at the top for HuM and possible successors being considered are "Dr Saifullah" or Abu Musaid, a resident of Malangpora in Pulwama, who was part of the Burhan Wani group of 12 terrorists, and Juniad Sehrai, chief of the Hurriyat’s Geelani faction who joined the terror group in 2018. Sehrai is seen as a prospect due to his connection with separatists through his staunch Jamiat-e-Islami ideologue father Ashraf Sehrai. However, according to intelligence sources, Saifullah, a most wanted terrorist, could be the new face of the HuM in the Kashmir Valley. He is listed as a top terrorist in the ‘A++” category. A medical assistant in the past, he made a name for himself treating terrorists wounded in encounters with the security forces, sources said. IGP Kumar said restrictions on movement and internet and phones other than BSNL were necessary to maintain law and order and would be reviewed if the situation improved. He said Naikoo’s killing was a big success for the J&K police after security forces killed Al Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind (AGH) chief Burhan Koka, along with two more terrorists in Shopian district on April 29. Saifullah began as a guide for terrorists in Pulwama, Tral, Kakapora and Kulgam areas. He has been active in Srinagar city as well, just like Sehrai, intelligence sources said. Sehrai occasionally visits his father’s house in Majid Bagh in Bhagat Barzulla in Srinagar and even motivates young boys in the area to join the Hizb. Kumar said three top terrorist commanders were killed since January, including Jaish-e-Muhammad’s Qari Yasir, Burhan Koka and Naikoo. The IGP said Naikoo was a very influential militant commander, who would release videos almost every month to lure the youth and to pass directions to his cadre to execute civilians and policemen. The Resistance Front (TRF), the IGP said, was not a new outfit but a “shadow of Lashkar”. It was set up in August last year following international pressure on Pakistan to stop militancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dr-saifullah-of-wani-gang-may-head-hizb-now/articleshow/75613824.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 8, 2020||Indore||Indore's MGM Medical College begins Covid-19 plasma trial||INDORE: After obtaining the requisite permissions, MGM Medical College on Thursday collected blood-plasma of an IPS officer, who was recently recovered from the disease. It will be transfused in two critically ill Covid patients, say sources. The MGM administration said it's the only institution in Indore to get permission from the Centre and ICMR to start plasma therapy. Plasma was extracted from ASP Aditya Mishra, who volunteered for it after being discharged on April 25. MGM College dean Dr Jyoti Bindal supervised the process. HoD of blood transfusion department Dr Ashok Yadav said Mishra donated 470ml of plasma that can be transfused in two patients. ‘Recovered persons should donate plasma’Its antibody level will be checked and two critically ill patients will be chosen, as per ICMR guidelines, to receive the transfusion. They will be kept under observation, Dr Yadav said, adding that ICMR will be informed at every stage of the trial. Mishra told mediapersons that he feels lucky to have got an opportunity to help save lives. The medical college has urged other Covid-19 recovered persons to come forward and donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indores-mgm-begins-covid-19-plasma-trial/articleshow/75613931.cms||---
May 8, 2020||Kolkata||Friends and family remember Major Anuj Sood as a gentleman and a brave officer||KOLKATA: Who was Major Anuj Sood? Just a brave officer of the Indian Army, who believed in leading from the front, or much more? After the martyr's mortal remains were brought to his residence in Panchkula, his wife Akriti said how she always knew how her husband would sacrifice his life for the country when the time came. A day later, Major Sood's friends and colleagues noted how he was not only an officer but a 'pucca' gentleman. "He was a man with a very large heart and theirs was a perfect match, though it didn't last long. Akriti was everything for him (in his personal life). He would tell us: "Should anything happen to me, take care of her." For Anuj, it was love at first sight. While returning in the car after meeting Akriti for the first time, he was already planning his marriage to her. Over the last two-and-a-half years since their marriage, the two had made several plans that speak a lot about their characters. The two planned to have one child and adopt the second one," a friend, who was in touch with Major Sood till the last, said. The major was among the five soldiers martyred in Kashmir's Handwara on Saturday. The team had successfully rescued civilians being held hostage by terrorists when they came under heavy fire. Major Sood was among the best in his course, his mates say. No wonder, he was able to make it to the Brigade of the Guards - an elite mechanised infantry unit of the Army. But, there was a soft side to this tough soldier. "We actually feel like weeping whenever he comes to mind. There were so many things that showed how he was serious, both in love and war. He was actually delighted to be part of the Rashtriya Rifles though he was aware of the risks involved. He wanted to be thorough in whatever he did. We remember how he went through a lot to impress Akriti. After somebody told him that Akriti was a foodie, Anuj started watching episodes of MasterChef to try and impress her," another friend said. Friends and family don't want people to mourn for major Sood but appreciate the life he led and the beliefs he lived for and gave up his life. The 31-year-old braveheart may have returned home on May 3 and would have been preparing for his next posting had fate not ordained otherwise. "He should be an inspiration to youngsters in the country," a childhood friend added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friends-and-family-remember-major-anuj-sood-as-a-brave-officer-and-a-gentleman/articleshow/75613918.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Fury over Maharashtra professors put on liquor shop duty||NAGPUR: Prof Deval Singh Rajput teaches electronics to vocational students at Sant Gadgebaba College in Murtizapur, 40km from Akola. Early on Thursday morning, he went straight to a liquor shop in Hatgaon area, some 2km from his house, and worked there as ‘wine shop coordinator’ up to 2pm. “Following the orders of the tehsildar, I worked as coordinator up to 2pm and requested customers to follow social distancing norms while buying liquor,” he said. As many as 13 professors like him, who teach different subjects in senior college to UG and PG students, were asked to work as wine shop coordinator by Murtizapur tehsildar Pradip Pawar. When TOI escalated this issue to the resident deputy collector and district collector of Akola, the tehsildar’s order was hastily withdrawn on Thursday evening itself. The order had been issued on Wednesday evening as shops and markets in Akola district were to open from May 7 after two days of complete lockdown. Akola district observed total lockdown from May 3 to 5 in the backdrop of a major surge of Covid-19 cases in district. “We were asked to reach the shop at 8am and ensure that owner is conducting thermal scanning of all workers in the shop,” said Prof Prakash Wankhede, who teaches English literature in the college run by a society established by Sant Gadge Baba. The great social revolutionist in Vidarbha dedicated his life to the cause of de-addiction and education for all. Further, professors were asked to ensure proper social distancing and hand hygiene by customers at liquor shops. They were also ordered to stop assembly of more than five customers and also to stop any of them from splitting in and around the liquor shop. Teachers and professors’ association objected to this weird order on Thursday morning. “This is unacceptable ethically as well as legally,” said Atul Pilatre, Akola district president of Maharashtra State Teachers Council. When TOI contacted resident deputy collector of Akola Sanjay Khadse, he said the order will be withdrawn. “We came to know about this order on Thursday morning only. I have already asked tehsildar of Murtizapur to withdraw it immediately,” said Khadse. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar also directed the concerned tehsildar to withdraw the order. By Thursday evening, withdrawal notice of the order reached via WhatsApp to all professors. “We have received instructions from district collector that only police should be appointed to ensure order at liquor shops. So, our orders issued on May 6 stand cancelled. All professors are duly informed about it,” said tehsildar Pawar. MLC from teacher’s constituency Nago Ganar termed this action a ‘mindless act’. He said, “These government officials are misusing powers they have got due in the Epidemic Act. I condemn this action. I have already written to Akola district collector and demanded disciplinary action against the tehsildar for this weird order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fury-over-maharashtra-professors-put-on-liquor-shop-duty/articleshow/75611069.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 8, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway engineer makes robot to help doctors fight Covid-19||Nagpur: To ensure safety of doctors and nursing staff while treating Covid-19 patients, a mechanical engineer from Nagpur, now with Solapur division of Central Railway, has developed a cost-effective robot that minimizes direct exposure to patients.The robot, produced in-house for Rs 47,000, was pressed into service at Dr Kotnis Railway Hospital in Solapur on Wednesday. Railway minister Piyush Goyal lauded the efforts of divisional mechanical engineer (DME) Suryakant Bhimrao Munjewar (30), who developed the robot.“There is a great need among all the doctors and nurses fighting the war against coronavirus to avoid direct contact with patients. In view of this, DRM Shailesh Gupta inspired me to develop this robot,” said Munjewar.It is very difficult to don PPE for six hours while on duty. It is like wearing a raincoat in summer. Munjewar informed the robot operated in 30 metre range and minimized contact by providing necessary stuff like hand sanitizer, medicines, towels, fruits etc to patients. It can carry material up to 7.5kgs.“It has a battery backup of one and a half days. A two-way video communication channel is available so doctors can directly interact with patients. The doctor and can ask what the patient needs,” said Munjewar.“Doctors can pay full attention to patients through this robot. If a doctor outside the hospital needs to be consulted, there is a video communication channel for it,” he said.Special care has been taken to ensure there should wasn’t any torque imbalance as the robot moves. The camber has been taken care of so the robot remained stable. Aluminium is used for the body which makes it light weight. It is ensured that the centre of gravity remains stable at a single point so there is no chance of load shift anywhere, thus rigidity and stability are ensured. It is proving to be a technical warrior in the fight against coronavirus. It is also sanitized by spraying liquid which doesn’t have water content.DRM Gupta told TOI, “The robot has been helping doctors and nursing staff a lot in minimizing contact with Covid-19 patients. We plan to add two more features like pulse meter and BP measurement in it to make it more effective.”Dr Anand Kamble, chief medical superintendent (CMS), Solapur, too is happy with the robot service. The idea for the robot was drawn from a remote operated trolley in Asansol division under Eastern Railway. Munjewar and his team comprising Viswanath Watkar, Shradha Kulkarni, Shrikant Kulkarni, Chandan Mane, and Yogesh Watkar worked 15-18 hours daily to make the robot in 4 days. The engineer created a mobile script and used Bluetooth to operate it with mobile.After the Solapur division successfully commissioned the robot, there have been demand for it from other divisions and doctors. Earlier, Munjewar had made an automatic sanding machine used by loco pilots at slippery spots. This was first innovation across the railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-railway-engineer-makes-robot-to-help-doctors-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75611106.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
