May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Corporates adapt to work from home as the new normal||In tandem with the revised guidelines issued by other state governments on the work-from-home facility for the employees of MNCs, IT firms and other corporates during the lockdown, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa also announced that only essential and critical services will be carried out from offices, and that the remaining staff should continue to work from home (WHF). This is no longer an ad hoc model that needs to be sustained only for now. Many are making changes in their lifestyle and work models to adapt to this model of working, which may soon be the new normal. Corporates are ensuring a smooth transition“We are leveraging virtual tools to stay connected amid the lockdown. Our associates are delivering critical features to enable business operations to run smoothly, worldwide,” says Hari Vasudev, Centre Head and Senior Vice President of Technology at Walmart labs, adding, “We are even providing financial assistance to buy furniture, so that they can have an ergonomic workspace at home, while also delivering laptops to new entrants.” “The ‘new normal’ has forced us to adopt innovative ways to serve our customers without disrupting their deliverables,” says Anand Subramanian, Chief Delivery Officer, Ness Digital Engineering. Verbal communication skills become critical at this timeThe biggest change has been in the way teams and co-workers communicate, and many say that mastering effective remote communication is almost vital for their CV now. Abhishek Rathi, a senior consultant with an IT giant, says, “I have to communicate better because my meetings are now on videos or calls. I can’t rely on my body language or non-verbal communication skills anymore. I’ve taken time to understand the apps and platforms we are using to communicate, and that has helped me a lot.” ‘To be productive, one must have work-life balance’However, employees also tell us they tend to be always available and working round the clock when working from home. Adil Nargolwala, Corporate VP with an MNC, says, “Working from home means you save at least an hour of commute every day. Some people use that extra time for work, which isn’t healthy. This is a chance to achieve greater work-life balance. Utilising the extra time in relaxation, recreation or just spending time with family keeps you mentally sound.” Meanwhile, some companies are working towards ensuring that employees are not compelled to spend long hours in front of the screen. “We are educating our associates to be disciplined about work timings. Also, the absence of long commute times means that we can plan our day better,” adds Hari. WFH laws in India don’t cover the corporatesOnly a few countries have a legal structure governing the WFH model. In India, the Ministry of Labour defines home-based workers as those working at home in unorganised sector with low income and outside the social security net. The policy does not extend to white collar workers. Dos and Don’ts of working from home Dos 1. Treat WFH as seriously and professionally as working from office 2. Dedicate a workstation for yourself at home 3. Make sure your family understands you are working at home. Chores must not disrupt work 4. Understand the technology that facilitates your work from home. That is your most important co-worker right now 5. Measure your productivity on a daily basis to keep a track of how efficient you are 6. Utilise the time saved in commuting for relaxing or with family. Don’t look to increase working hours Don’ts 1. Do not work from the bed or couch. That results in decreased productivity 2. Do not multitask. Eating, talking to family, etc should not be done while on the clock 3. Finish your work day at your regular office time. Just because you are home doesn’t mean work should continue in overtime – With inputs by Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/corporates-adapt-to-work-from-home-as-the-new-normal/articleshow/75633598.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
May 9, 2020||Kochi||Malayali expats delighted to finally return home||After weeks of waiting to get back to Kerala from foreign countries that too had enforced lockdowns, hundreds of Malayalis finally got to touch down on their homeland through the repatriation flights from Thursday. Their joy at reaching home seems to be big enough to mask their hardships that range from losing jobs and staying with Covid-19 affected to staring at an uncertain future. A few of the non-resident Keralites, who are just back home, share their ordeals with us: ‘We don’t want to be worried about trolls now’Twenty-seven-year-old techie Athira G S, who works in Dubai and is seven months pregnant, was in the news recently for approaching SC for evacuation of pregnant women like her from foreign countries. MLA Shafi Parambil sponsored her ticket from Dubai to Kozhikode and as a gesture of thanks, Athira and her husband Nithin Chandran sponsored the tickets of two other expats. However, the incident also led to the couple getting trolled on social media, with some giving it a political colour. Nithin says, “We don’t want to be worried about the same now, and are glad that she can be in Kerala at this critical hour. There is no need to take this politically. She is due in July and we were worried when she could go to Kerala, and that’s why she moved court for all pregnant women.” Athira is now safely back at her home in Kozhikode, and her family says her experience of the journey was positive. Her mom P Geetha says, “She had rapid tests in Dubai airport and to ensure protection, she travelled wearing a PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kit and it was apparently a unique experience. The flight landed at 10.30 pm, but she reached home in the taxi arranged by 1.45 am on Friday. It’s great to have her back at home.” ‘We were worried that social distancing wasn’t followed inside the flight’Amjath Koottakadavath, wife Feminas and two-year-old daughter Ala Bint had quarantined themselves for the past two months in their Umm Al Quwain home. The consultant, who is from Kozhikode, says, “My wife is seven months pregnant and we had quarantined ourselves, so that we ensure maximum safety and don't take any risk. I was only working from home and we stepped out only to buy groceries.” However, the family, that had been taking utmost care for safety, was disappointed once inside the flight. “We were told social distancing should be maintained, but the seating arrangements inside the flight didn't justify the same. We had paid Rs 15,000 per head and we are people who work in a foreign country for our State. It was just like a normal flight. They were announcing social distancing should be maintained, but it felt like a joke, as we were sitting so close to each other.” That said, he says Kerala government was perfect with its arrangements once landed. “It’s once we reached Kerala that we were at peace,” he says. ‘Grateful for flight to a haven’Prathibha Sebastian Vellanikaran has her spirits up and it is not only because she is six months pregnant with her first child. She is thrilled that she and her mother have received the permission to fly to Kochi from Bahrain, and she can be in a safe place. “In the early days, there were not many cases in Bahrain, but now every day, they report about 100 new cases, largely among migrant workers,” says the school teacher. “I want to get back to Kerala, and to the excellent health care we are learning anew about.” Also, Prathibha’s parents have unexpectedly been stuck in different places, as have her in-laws. “My mother-in-law was supposed to come back to Bahrain in early April, but now, she is in Kerala, while my father-in-law and husband are here. The whole family has been split by the pandemic. At least once I am back in Kerala, there will be more family around,” she says. Prathibha is concerned, though, that there is only a thermal scanning and no Covid-19 test being done before they board the flight. “There is no social distancing on the flight and anyone is vulnerable if there is an infected person. But all said and done, my family and I are grateful to be on that flight. My husband and I say that our child will be a born fighter to make an entry at this time,” she says. ‘I feel lucky to be able to come back home’Musthafa Mathottam flew to Dubai with the hope of paying off the debts taken for his daughter’s wedding in January. But the work situation was already getting bleak when the musician got there. “After he got there in mid-February, he happily called home to say that he had a stage show, but the next day he said it had been cancelled,” says wife Rasheeda KP. It was an anxious time for the family. Musthafa says, “I could not take my regular music tuitions either and had to depend on friends to pay rent. You are staring ahead at a difficult time when you feel you have to seek help from others to meet basic expenses.” The family back home was worried not just about the finances, but, with cases increasing by the hundreds in Dubai, was also concerned about Musthafa’s health — he had been doing poorly after he had had an operation — and convinced him to register with NORKA. The Kozhikode-native got permission to return on the first flight to Karipur airport on Thursday. “I was hoping the job situation might turn around, but thousands are praying and waiting for the chance to return home and friends told me that I should grab the opportunity. I feel lucky and grateful that I have been able to come back,” says Musthafa, who has been quarantined at the NIT Calicut hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-expats-delighted-to-finally-return-home/articleshow/75628500.cms||Deepa Soman
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Non-residential Bengalis celebrate Rabindra Jayanti online||For Bengalis living abroad, celebrating Durga Puja has always been an integral part of their lives. But then, they celebrate almost every festival just like us. This year, when everything suddenly came to a halt because of the pandemic, members of Frankfurt Adi Sarbojonin, a 40-years old Bengali association celebrating Durga Puja in Germany, decided to celebrate Rabindra Jayanti in their own style. They organised an online programme with participation of people across all age groups. The group members recorded their performances — dance, music and drama — and uploaded on social media, so that Bengalis across the globe can enjoy it. The programme was conducted by designated anchors. “Initially, we thought we won’t be able to celebrate Rabindra Jayanti this year, but as we decided to do it on digital platform, things got very easy,” said one of the organisers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/non-residential-bengalis-celebrate-rabindra-jayanti-online/articleshow/75636562.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 9, 2020||Goa||I-League keen on 3+1 foreign player rule from this season, ISL will need time||PANAJI: The Indian Super League (ISL) will need some time but the I-League could revert to the continentally-approved 3+1 foreign player rule for the 2020-21 season. The All India Football Federation’s technical committee met on Friday and recommended the use of the 3+1 foreign player rule for both domestic leagues. While the ISL representative at the meeting said this was the best way forward, no timeline was fixed. The I-League, though, would have little difficulty in showing the way. According to sources, AIFF has held talks with some club owners over the last two days and the general feeling is that the 3+1 rule should be welcomed. “Most clubs said the rule is good, but we have not obtained any official feedback. We can implement the rule change soon,” said one official. With Covid-19 bringing the world to a standstill and the economy now in a state of suspense, clubs will be keen to reduce costs. Besides, most I-League clubs don’t have too many contractual foreign player commitments for next season. The 3+1 regulation means a club can field a maximum of four international players -- three foreigners of any nationality and one player from the AFC member nation -- at any given point of time. Both leagues allow the use of five foreign players at the moment with seven allowed to be registered. “We are in favour of reducing foreign players. Three plus one is good. Our members have agreed and the AIFF too is thinking alike. It’s not possible to make the change straightway (this season) because many clubs already have contracted players, but we should be able to achieve this for the 2021-2022 season,” said technical committee chairman Shyam Thapa. Thapa said the need of the hour was to provide domestic players with more opportunities. “For the betterment of the national team, we need to give more Indian players a chance. The sooner the rule change happens, the better it is for Indian football,” said Thapa. There was also a discussion on the possible inclusion of Person of Indian Origin (PIO) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) in the national team. The committee eventually decided to wait for more clarity from the sports ministry. Besides Thapa, all other members including deputy chairman Henry Menezes, Prasanta Banerjee, Ganapati Palguna, Pradip Kumar Datta, Ishfaq Ahmed, Sundar Raman and and Abhishek Yadav attended the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-keen-on-31-foreign-player-rule-from-this-season-isl-will-need-time/articleshow/75636627.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 9, 2020||India||Finish Babri trial by Aug 31, SC tells CBI court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday directed a special CBI court in Lucknow to wrap up hearing and deliver its verdict by August 31 in the trial against senior BJP members L K Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti besides some others in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The apex court had in July last year fixed the deadline of April 18 for the trial court to complete the proceedings but the judge had sought extension of time. Granting more time to complete the trial, a bench of Justices R F Nariman and Surya Kant asked district and sessions judge Surendra Kumar Yadav to finish the task by the end of August. In April 2017, the SC had directed joint trial against all accused, including the top BJP members, allegedly involved in Babri Masjid demolition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/finish-babri-trial-by-aug-31-sc-tells-cbi-court/articleshow/75636579.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||In the post-coronavirus world, we’ll have to create timeless pieces, go digital, and scale down, says the fashion fraternity||With major fashion events called off or postponed indefinitely, orders cancelled, and stores shut amid the coronavirus pandemic, this is a testing time for the fashion industry but designers haven’t lost hope. Reinvention may be the key to kick-start businesses post lockdown, fashion fraternity veterans said as they came together for a webinar hosted by the Delhi Times. Titled ‘Revival of Business in Post-pandemic Era’, the session was moderated by Sunil Sethi, chairman, Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI). Well- known fashion designers Suneet Varma, Ashish N Soni, Namrata Joshipura, Anamika Khanna, JJ Valaya and Rajesh Pratap Singh spoke at the event. Excerpts from the discussion: ‘We all have to be prepared for a new normal’Sunil Sethi started the discussion with a question that’s on everybody’s mind these days – ‘When will things get back to normal?’ “We all have to be prepared for the new normal and each one of us has to set that new normal standard on our own. It won’t be anytime soon that we will get back to where we were,” Anamika replied. Agreeing with Anamika, Suneet said, “I don’t think we should expect any kind of pre-pandemic normalcy. There will be a new normal, new ethos of doing business and a new structure that everyone will have to adapt to. It’s a two-way street - what the designers expect in terms of how we should roll out our businesses, targets we want to meet and markets we want to serve, and what the consumers expect. Once the pandemic is over, people may not want to spend big.” “I totally agree, though we don’t know what the new normal will be like. For instance, people browsing through stores is not going to happen now. I don’t know how this is going to unfold,” Ashish added. ‘Experiential buying may pick up again’Sethi then took the discussion forward to stock management and whether designers will have to take a new approach while planning their collections. Stressing the need to reinvent, Rajesh Pratap Singh said, “I hope we learn our lessons. There were these shows and things that weren’t required. I hope we move forward from there. From what we know, it may take a year and a half to deal with this pandemic. In that case, while many designers will go back to their drawing boards, 50% of our businesses will perish. Please, forgive me for being a bit negative. We will have to reinvent our businesses.” Echoing the sentiment, Anamika said this period should not be considered as the end of the road but a change of pattern. “We have to change the way we think. Indian economy is very different. We will not go out and start spending as soon as the pandemic is over. We save for future and there is going to be discerning, need-based buying. For example, I would want to invest in something that will last longer. We have to create something that is timeless,” she said. Valaya agreed, saying, “People who would want to spend big money would also want to buy something that will be an investment. So, clever designing and creating something that holds value for a number of years is needed.” Suneet, at the same time, expressed the opinion that experiential buying may pick up again in days to come. “Before everyone set up fancy stores, we used to have brilliant sales through studios in our factories. I think that will be a very interesting option to explore again. For example, earlier, a diamond merchant family from Antwerp would set up home in my factory for four days and order clothes for 50 people. It was a more personalised way of being able to sell beautiful clothes without investing in an inventory and spending on overheads. This is something we can all explore for the next year or two. If clients are going to be scared to go to crowded places, they may want such private experiences,” he added. ‘Digital is the way to go but we will also have to step back and scale down’Bringing the discussion to technological solutions, Sethi said that going digital was the need of the hour. As he invited speakers to share their views on the subject, Rajesh Pratap said, “Going digital is not just an option anymore. It needs to be done right away.” “During the interim period, when people won’t be that comfortable stepping out, digital platforms will be important for sales, but the price point may remain a sensitive issue. Beyond a certain price point, the physical experience of shopping is still essential. Digital is the way to go forward but clearly, we will have to reinvent our business model. We will have to step back and scale down,” Namrata added. Valaya agreed, saying that while digital is the future, when it comes to occasion wear, such as for weddings, the touch and feel factor is still important for consumers. “The amount of actual business we get out of social media platforms, such as Instagram, is incredible, but it goes up to a certain price point. To a large extent, the digital world is going to be the answer. But when it comes to wedding wear, brides and grooms would want to feel the outfit,” he said. Suneet shared with the panel that as much as 50% of his business came from NRI clients, and that since the pandemic started, he has been getting 40-50 messages from his clients every day. “We get 40-50 messages a day from clients, asking for prices and delivery timing for items that they have seen on social media. So if people don’t travel, that does not mean there will be no sales. There may be a reduction but people will still want to buy,” he said. ‘The most important thing is taking care of our karigars’Another concern area that the designers discussed was taking care of the people they work with. “The most important thing is taking care of our people. I don’t care about sales or whether this industry recovers today or tomorrow. My worry is, how am I going to take care of my people? How are we, as an industry, going to take care of karigars, weavers and craftspeople? The bigger an organisation is, the bigger the problem,” said Rajesh Pratap. Ashish added, “We are all going to use our cash reserves. Our people are our brand. We have to support them. But when the rental guys come calling and there are no sales, we are going to hit major roadblocks.” Namrata couldn’t agree more with Ashish as she added, “What’s bothering me and most of my contemporaries are store rentals and wages.” To conclude the discussion, Sethi had some important points to make, “I see the glass as half full. Our priority is our workers and our teams. We have to reinvent in a way that this family continues to be in a happy space. Each one has a different idea of how things will go and I am learning from this. All I want to say is that we cannot get off the treadmill. If we have to keep the industry going, we have to find alternatives. We have to reinvent.” Watch Reinvent, restructure and reorient: Fashion industry's road to recovery post COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-post-coronavirus-world-well-have-to-create-timeless-pieces-go-digital-and-scale-down-says-the-fashion-fraternity/articleshow/75635014.cms||Divya Kaushik
May 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Doctor among 18 quarantined after BMP man tests Covid-19 positive||PATNA: Altogether 18 people, including a doctor and 17 BMP personnel, have been quarantined at the Patliputra Sports Complex facility after one of their retired colleagues turned out to be Covid-19 positive on Thursday evening. The BMP havildar who, had retired on March 31 but could not return home due to the lockdown, was living in the barracks inside the headquarters of the 14th battalion of BMP located near Patna airport. The headquarters of two other battalions, 5th and 10th, are also in the same campus, which has now been declared a containment zone. At least 600-700 BMP personnel from all three battalions are estimated to be living inside the campus. This is the fourth case of Covid-19 in the state police forces and first in the BMP so far. Patna deputy DC Richie Pandey, who is monitoring the quarantine procedure, told TOI that 17 personnel who shared the barracks with the retired havildar were quarantined on Thursday night itself. “The havildar had met a doctor for check-up at the battalion command hospital. He has also been sent to the Patliputra sports complex quarantine facility,” he said, adding, “Samples of all 18 people have been collected and their results were awaited.” Pandey further said, “The havildar has claimed that he had not gone outside or met anybody from outside the barracks. Under this situation, things would become clear only after test results of all 18 people arrive.” State police ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the retired havildar was native of Gumla in Jharkhand had to stay inside the barrack due to the lockdown. “He has tuberculosis as well as asthma. He had gone to AIIMS-Patna for check-up on Wednesday due to illness when he was tested and turned out to be Covid-19 positive,” the ADG said. ADG said core areas of BMP-14 premises were sanitized on Friday. “However, as precautionary measure, department along with help of municipal corporation is also getting sanitized all vehicles and offices of BMP-5 and BMP-10 too along with those of BMP-14,” he added. PMC commissioner Himanshu Rai said he had instructed executive officer of new capital circle to get the premises along with neighbouring public areas sanitized using mixture of sodium hypochlorite solution. “Sanitization work would continue even on Saturday if it doesn’t get completed on Friday,” he said. Covid-19 nodal officer Ragini Mishra said the area falling within three kilometres radius of the BMP barrack would a containment zone now. “None would be allowed to leave or enter. Police personnel would have to remain quarantined for 14 days. Door to door survey would be made,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-doctor-among-18-quarantined-after-bmp-man-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75636963.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 9, 2020||India||Maharashtra: 16 die as train runs over tired migrants sleeping on tracks||AURANGABAD: Sixteen jobless and weary migrant labourers who had dozed off on a railway track after walking nearly 36 km from Maharashtra’s Jalna, where they used to work in a steel plant, were run over by a goods train at Satana village near Aurangabad on Friday morning, tragically cutting short what was to be a journey back to their native MP. The deceased were in a group of 20 that set out from Jalna on foot for the Bhusawal railway junction, around 160km away, in the hope of catching a train to MP. The four survivors were also lying on the track, but just managed to get out of harm’s way. “We were exhausted and sat on the track to drink water. Some of us chatted before dozing off. The train arrived soon after and ran over most of my mates. Four of us heard their cries and woke up, and barely managed to jump aside,” one of the survivors, Sajjansingh Dhurve, told TOI, adding that they had assumed no train would be plying during lockdown. Severed limbs, blood-stained rotis, torn currency notes and clothes and other belongings lay strewn on the track for hours. The railway administration and police had a tough time recovering the dismembered body parts of the 16 victims and sending these to the mortuary at Aurangabad’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). “The tracks were at a little elevation from the ground, which offered some safety from reptiles and other wild creatures,” Dhurve, one of the four who survived, said. Expressing grief over the death of the workers, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray announced Rs 5 lakh in financial aid to each of the victims' families. His MP counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a like amount to the next of kin of the deceased. The 20 workers used to work in a steel plant that has just resumed operations after 40 days of lockdown, Jalna collector Ravindra Binwade said. “Another 58 migrant workers from the plant had earlier secured travel passes to return home. The 20 workers involved in Friday's incident had visited the collectorate on Thursday but did not apply for passes. They had been assured of passes if they applied.” However, sources in the district administration said the workers were disappointed at not being able to secure travel passes and decided to set off immediately. “They went back to the steel plant, stayed there for some time before setting out for Bhusawal on foot. The plant had received permission from the MIDC to restart manufacturing and resumed operations on April 4, but the workers thought it best to return home," a source said. Rafiq Shah, police patil of Satana village, said 14 of the migrant workers died on the spot and two on the way to hospital. “I live just 500 metres from the site. I heard a loud bang and the goods train, which was going from Nanded to Manmad, screeching to a halt. I felt dizzy on seeing the gory sight on the tracks. However, I immediately called up the police and other authorities," he said. South Central Railway’s chief PRO Ch Rakesh said in a statement that the loco pilot of the goods train honked as soon as he saw people on the tracks and did everything possible to stop the train. He said a high-level inquiry headed by the commissioner of railway safety (SCR) has been ordered. Despite repeated attempts, the management of SRJ Rolling Mills in Jalna, where the workers were employed, could not be reached for comment. Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil told TOI, "The survivors and the victims’ bodies are being sent to Madhya Pradesh by train." Following the accident, leaders from across party lines, including former state assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagde and Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, demanded action against the employers as well as the labour contractors. Jaleel said, "The workers were unemployed for 40 days, and this resulted in a complete erosion of their savings. This might have forced them to go back to MP."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/16-die-as-train-runs-over-tired-migrants-sleeping-on-tracks/articleshow/75636960.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Central team in Kurnool to check Covid-19 measures||TRUPATI: A public health team appointed by the Centre will inspect Covid-19 measures in Kurnool district for six days starting Saturday. Following the nationwide rise in number of cases, the Centre had announced the formation of public health teams to investigate 20 districts across 10 states with the highest incidence of coronavirus cases. These teams, comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS, JIPMER and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, among others, will carry out a detailed study on the disease outbreak in hotspots and submit their reports to the state health authorities with recommendations. In Andhra Pradesh—which has reported 1,887 cases so far—the team will visit Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts, which have registered the highest number of cases. Speaking to reporters in Kurnool, district collector G Veerapandian said a two-member committee comprising Dr Madhumitha, director at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health and Dr Sanjay Kumar, will reach Kurnool district on Saturday and begin their week-long comprehensive study of the Covid-19 situation in the district, steps taken by the district administration and suggest ways to strengthen ongoing measures to flatten the curve. With seven new cases reported on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district shot up to 547. Two more fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the number of Covid-19 deaths in the district to 14. Kurnool district, which continues on the top of Andhra Pradesh's chart, both in terms of highest number of cases as well as Covid-19 deaths, has remained a Covid-19 hot-spot for almost a month now and there seems to be no respite from the outbreak yet. On the brighter side, an 80 year old patient, a resident of Ganigalli locality in Kurnool city, recovered completely and was discharged from the Viswabharathi Covid hospital on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/central-team-in-kurnool-to-check-covid-19-measures/articleshow/75637211.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 9, 2020||Business||Government to borrow 54% more than estimate, fiscal deficit may hit 5.5%||MUMBAI: Weighed down by higher expenses due to the devastating impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on the economy, the government on Friday said it will borrow about Rs 12 lakh crore from the market in fiscal year 2020-21, a massive increase of Rs 4.2 lakh crore, or 54% jump over the Budget estimate of Rs 7.8 lakh crore. The decision for higher borrowing has also been prompted by severe loss of government revenues because of stalled economic activity across the country due to the stringent lockdown, economists said. This, the economists said will push the fiscal deficit from the targeted 3.5% for 2020-21 to 5.5%. GST revenues as well as those from direct and indirect taxes are under severe strain while asset sales in state run companies which were expected to fetch much needed revenues have stalled in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. There have been increasing calls to unveil a massive fiscal stimulus to help several sectors of the economy overcome the severe impact of the Covid-19. The government and the RBI have taken some measures to help the poor and the financial markets as well as get lending going but Indian industry has called for a large stimulus to help sectors hit hard by the pandemic restart their activity and help in restoring growth. Between May 11 and September 30, over 20 weeks, the government will borrow Rs 30,000 crore every week by auctioning its bonds of between two-year and 40-year duration, data on RBI website showed. So far since April 9 and May 8, the government has already borrowed Rs 1.06 lakh crore from the market. “The estimated gross market borrowing in the financial year 2020-21 will be Rs 12 lakh crore in place of Rs 7.80 lakh crore as per Budget Estimate 2020-21. The above revision in borrowings has been necessitated on account of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the RBI, which conducts these weekly auctions, said. Economists said the higher market borrowing will help the government meet the needs for a stimulus and extra spending as a result of the pandemic. “The announcement of additional borrowing reflects the possible loss of government revenue as economic activity continues to be in lockdown mode. Such announcements of additional borrowing had also happened post global financial crisis and currently reflects the impaired state of government finances of both Centre and States with no activity. We believe this move will allow the Central Government to partially mitigate the revenue loss in the interregnum,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India. The government’s chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian in an interview to TOI on Friday had said that market borrowings was an option to raise funds to additonal expenses and the size of the stimulus should in line with the tax to GDP ratio of the country. A report by SBI on April 3 had mentioned that with the Covid-19-related expenses going up while at the same time governments’ revenues have been hit severely due to closure of most economic activities, borrowings by central and state governments were expected to go up. “We believe the states require more support from the centre as their finances are significantly stressed given that they are the last mile of Covid-19 deliveries and also because the possibility of large slippage in central government finances is now a reality,” the report had said. With the central government now expressing its intentions to borrow about Rs 4.2 lakh crore more than what was planned, economists now believe even states will soon come out to borrow more to meet additional expenses. This additional borrowing is sure to push up the fiscal deficit target from the current 3.5% level, they said. The announcement of a hike in government’s borrowings came on a day it introduced a new 10-year bond which will now be the benchmark. The new 10-year gilts were priced at 5.79% per annum and closed the day’s trading at 5.71%, an 11-year low level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-borrow-54-more-than-estimate-fiscal-deficit-may-hit-5-5/articleshow/75637324.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Allahabad||North Central Railway converts 130 coaches as Covid care centres||PRAYAGRAJ: Pitching in with the nationwide efforts to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid1-19), North Central Railway has converted 130 train coaches into ‘Covid care centres’. The coaches will be used for treating mild cases which can be clinically assigned to these centres, as per guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family affairs (MoHFW). NCR’s chief public relations officer Ajeet Kumar Singh said, “These coaches are ready and can be used when the state has exhausted its facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases. As per the guidelines issued by MoHWF, these centres will be set up at three important stations of the NCR, which are Prayagraj Junction, Kanpur and Jhansi.” These railway stations are equipped with facilities for watering and charging Covid care rakes, he added. As per guidelines of MoHFW, state governments would send the requisition to Indian Railways (IR), who in turn will allocate these coaches to states and Union territories. After allocation, the trains will reach the allotted station. Wherever these trains go, facilities like watering, electricity, repairs, catering and security will be provided by IR. “Apart from this, IR could also provide its doctors and paramedical staff to treat novel coronavirus patients, if the need arises,” said the CPRO. Apart from these care centres, NCR has already created 6,51 quarantine beds and 100-bed Covid wards in its Central Hospital in Prayagraj and the Divisional Railway Hospital in Jhansi. In addition, based on written consent from concerned state governments, the first outgoing Shramik special train of NCR was operated on Friday from Aligarh to Purnea Junction, informed the CPRO. This train carried 1,282 students. By Friday midnight, NCR is expected to run 125 Shramik Special trains. “We would have brought about 20,000 migrants from UP and others who were stranded in various ciites through 17 terminating Shramik Special trains,” Singh added. NCR Prayagraj division’s public relations officer SK Gupta said that a Shramik Special from Vadodara would be arriving at Prayagraj Junction on May 9. The train which would be bringing not only migrant labours but also students, pilgrims of various districts of UP, would arrive around 4.30am. UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses would then ferry them to their respective districts. Meanwhile, three Shramik Special trains arrived at Kanpur, Fatehpur and Sonbhadra railway stations on Friday. The train at Kanpur arrived from Surat at 3.10pm, bringing 1,187 passengers. In Fatehpur, the train arrived from Surat at 2.20pm and brought 1,215 passengers. In Sonbhadra, the train arrived at the station around 8.45am from Mehsana, carrying 1,015 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/north-central-railway-converts-130-coaches-as-covid-care-centres/articleshow/75637403.cms||Rajiv Mani
May 9, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: ‘Traffic volunteers appointed to help elderly people’||DHARAMSHALA: Chamba district police has taken an initiative to appoint traffic volunteers to help the elderly people in the hill town that will help them to reach their home destinations. These volunteers will be active during the relaxation hours of the day. Superintendent of police Monika Bhutungru said that the step has been taken considering the geographical conditions of the hill town. “People are applauding this move. We have helped nearly 150 people in just two days of this service,” he added. The service has been started a day before on Thursday. Mobile number-7876893014- has been flashed so that people can even contact these volunteers for their needs. In many cases, these volunteers can deliver the essential items to the elderly people living alone in their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-traffic-volunteers-appointed-to-help-elderly-people/articleshow/75637705.cms||Shri Puri
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown boredom makes teenagers challenge the rules of virtual intimacy||In this pandemic world of social distancing and lockdown, teenagers deprived of social or physical interaction with their peers are pushing the boundaries of online interactions. They are getting bolder and more adventurous in their sexual communication, sometimes at their own peril, as the recent #boislockerroom incident showed us. According to reports, the lockdown has led to a 95 per cent spike in Indians consuming pornographic content online. What’s more alarming? The rise in the number of youngsters seeking gratification in sexting, steamy video chats and sharing sexual content. Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor for cybercrime cases (Government of West Bengal) says lockdown has seen a surge in minors indulging in virtual sex. “We are bracing ourselves for a spike in revenge porn and blackmailing with the help of personally identified data once the lockdown lifts,” he warned. Understanding the triggers Teenagers have always enjoyed risque conversations and mild flirting. But in the pandemic household, where almost every individual is glued to his/her private screen, they are also the most vulnerable. “It is traumatic for them to be deprived of everything that is important to them - friends, campus, social life, and maybe even physical intimacy with their partners. Unlike their parents, they have no professional or familial duties that take up their attention, but they are constantly being monitored by parents. It is irritating, frustrating and pushing them to seek gratification in the only private space they have - online,” said Dr Gautam Bandyopadhyay, Professor of Department of Psychiatry, Medical College (Kolkata). The desire to embark on sexual adventures virtually, sometimes even with strangers, is both because of boredom and an act of rebellion, he says. CAUTIOUS PARENTS OF TEENAGERSMou Maitra, mother of a 16-year-old: “Connecting with a 16-year-old is easier said than done. My daughter has her own life and a busy one too. She spends a whole lot of time on the Internet, like most kids of her age. We are not privy to what she is doing there, as we trust her. However, we try to keep her engaged in activities like cooking, discussing recipes, watching movies together.” Sudipto Gupta, father of a 19-year-old: “It’s impossible to track every digital footprint left behind by your kid. I make sure that I warn my daughter about how internet exposure can harm her, especially regarding the threat to her reputation and privacy. I also encourage her to discuss her relationships, while giving her enough space. Just want her to feel comfortable about talking to me whenever she feels like it.” PEER PRESSURE, MORE OPTIONS & BOREDOMYuvraj Majumdar, student of B.Com student, St. Xavier’s College: It has always been easy for us to meet new people on apps and social media. The lockdown and the resulting boredom has made online dating, video calls, texting, all the more attractive as a proposition. Everyone has always liked to talk about sex, now you just have a hundred different ways to do it. How you choose to navigate the options, says a lot about how responsible you are. Manya Ahalani, student of Business Management (Hons) St. Xavier’s College: The kind of cyber bullying we have seen in Delhi or Kolkata recently is not only targeted at girls but also boys. Peer pressure plays a very important part in shaping our choices. It is important to have a safety net in your friends and your social network. Soumik Dasgupta, BBA LLB (Hons), Symbiosis Law School Pune: Phone sex, or texting, or even sex via video calls - pretty common with people my age. However, with social distancing and lockdown, everyone’s rediscovering virtual sex with great enthusiasm. As a student, I had always viewed these things as a means of harmless fun. WHAT PARENTS CAN DO....1) Communicate with your kids, explain the fallouts of sexually explicit sexual interaction on digital platforms. Motivate them to get involved in healthy activities instead 2)Don’t take away their phone, it will worsen things. Instead make him/her understand the consequences if he/she misses it. 3) Lockdown has changed sleeping patterns. Many kids now wake up late in the afternoon and stay awake at night. Encourage healthy sleeping habits.. 4) Be authoritative, not judgemental.Monitor the websites and chat rooms they frequent. Does not matter if they feel offended. They need to be explained that it is for their safety. 5) Remind them that any private, sensitive material in the wrong hands can be dangerous, and return to haunt them even as adults and at workplaces.  - Tips from Dr Piya Nandi, clinical psychologist||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-boredom-makes-teenagers-challenge-the-rules-of-virtual-intimacy/articleshow/75632775.cms||Ruman Ganguly
May 9, 2020||India||Worried by crowds, SC suggests home delivery of alcohol||NEW DELHI: Worried by the large number of people throwing social distancing norms to the wind and jostling at liquor vends as soon as they opened after a long break, the Supreme Court on Friday suggested that the Centre could look at possible home delivery or indirect sale of liquor to prevent crowding. Arguing for public interest litigation (PIL), petitioner G Natarajan and advocate Sai Deepak told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that a fresh ban on liquor should be enforced as the experience showed that people were ready to put their lives at risk by breaching social distancing norms. He said long queues before liquor vends, where people often jostled with each other to maintain their position, put public health at risk given the contagious nature of Covid-19. He said liquor vends appeared few in number given the large number of people descending to purchase alcohol the moment stores were opened. He requested the court to issue a direction to the home ministry to issue a clarification on liquor sale guidelines. The bench said it was not inclined to entertain the PIL but observed that to keep people safe from infecting each other, the government could consider indirect sale of liquor or home delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/worried-by-crowds-sc-suggests-home-delivery-of-alcohol/articleshow/75637621.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Gaya||Gaya district administration gives conditional nod to stores||GAYA: Gaya DM Abhishek Singh on Thursday evening notified a schedule for allowing conditional opening of shops in the town. As per the notification, the shops have been divided into three categories. While some shops will remain open six days a week, except Sunday, other shops will open three days a week and that too between 10 in the morning and 4 in the afternoon. Textile shops, readymade garments, tailoring shops, bullion shops and foot wear among few other category of shops will not be allowed to open. One category of shops will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while another category of shops will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. All shops will remain closed on Sunday. Shops selling electrical goods, including fans, air coolers, air- conditioners, electronic goods like mobile phones, computer, laptops and UPS among others will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Automobile spare part shops, lubricants, tyres and tubes among others will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Repair shops of different categories will remain open on days on which, the main items will be sold. Garages, workshops, high security registration plate shops, pollution testing centres and shops selling construction material, including steel, cement, stone chips, hard ware, plastic pipes, sanitary fittings and shuttering material will remain open on all days of the week, except Sunday. The conditions attached with the permission to open shops, include mandatory wearing of the masks by the buyers as well as sellers, maintenance of the social distancing norms and proper markings outside the shops. Sub- divisional officer has been given the power to make changes as per local situation and order closure of shops even during permitted day and hours, if the situation demands. But the SDOs will not have the power to add to the category of shops being allowed to open. Asked whether the ban on plying of private vehicles too has been relaxed during shop opening hours, the DM said that the restriction on vehicle will remain effective as Gaya has been placed in the red zone. “Only cyclists and pedestrians would be allowed to move for shopping purposes. The vehicle ban includes rickshaws, cycle rickshaws as well as e-rickshaws,” said Singh. Traders have not taken kindly to the continued restriction on the plying of vehicles for shopping purposes. “The vehicle ban virtually makes the shop opening exercise futile,” said DK Jain, former president of the Central Bihar chamber of Commerce. He also demanded the inclusion of textile shops, readymade garments, foot wear and bullion in the list of permitted categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gaya/gaya-district-administration-gives-conditional-nod-to-stores/articleshow/75637868.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 9, 2020||Goa||Restart business to keep migrant workers within Goa: BJP core commitee||PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) core committee on Thursday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to restart business activities so that migrant workers do not leave the state. “If the migrants leave the state then it would be difficult to put economic activities back on track,” said the core committee in a statemement. The core committee conducted meeting after 40 days. Their last meeting was conducted via video conference. During the meeting, various subjects were discussed, including mining, the measures taken by the state to revive the economy, the Sanjivani sugar factory and the zilla panchayat election among others. Sawant briefed the core committee about the state’s proposal to the Union government to arrange trains to transport migrant workers to their native places. Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, he said that the state government has made a request to the Centre for permission to open the Dabolim airport to facilitate the return of Goans from abroad. Sawant told the committee he was positive that the Union government would amend the act to restart mining activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restart-business-to-keep-migrant-workers-within-goa-bjp-core-commitee/articleshow/75637961.cms||Murari Shetye
May 9, 2020||India||Coronavirus: ICMR to monitor 75 districts to check for community transmission||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) plans to start a study in about 75 districts of the country that have the maximum number of Covid-19 cases to check whether community transmission has begun. The health ministry has also asked states to test at least 250 samples of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza like illnesses (ILI) from each district as part of active surveillance to monitor spread of the infectious disease. Officials said the ICMR study was initially planned to be conducted through rapid antibody test kits. However, it was postponed when these kits showed variations in results. Now, the council is planning to use ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test kits to carry out the study. The ELISA test kit is similar to the rapid antibody test kit as it detects antibodies in the blood. But these kits are yet to be validated by ICMR. The ICMR had conducted similar studies in March to check community transmission. But it had maintained that there was not adequate evidence to show community spread. Watch ICMR to monitor 75 districts to check for community transmission||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-to-monitor-75-districts-to-check-for-community-transmission/articleshow/75637962.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 9, 2020||Business||Vande Bharat Mission: By air & sea, India’s evacuation operation picks up pace||The Vande Bharat Mission gained momentum, with two flights — one from Singapore and another from Riyadh — landing in Delhi and Kairapur airport in Kerala, while the Operation Samudra Setu by the Indian Navy to evacuate Indians stranded abroad using naval ships kicked off from the Maldives on Friday. The INS Jalashwa, the ship of the Eastern Naval Command, is scheduled to reach Kochi by Sunday. Another repatriation flight from Bahrain, with 177 passengers and five infants, reached Cochin International Airport Ltd on Friday. The flight from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia landed at Karipur airport with 152 passengers, including 84 pregnant women, at 8.05pm on Friday. Among those who landed were 22 children and five with medical conditions that need special care. At 12.05pm on Friday, the AI-381 landed at IGI Airport with 234 passengers from Singapore. After screening, the passengers were sent to quarantine at various hotels in Aerocity, Dwarka and south Delhi. Passengers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh were sent home in buses. Two flights had landed at Kochi and Kozhikode airports on Thursday from Abu Dhabi and Dubai, respectively. Around 250 Indian students and tourists stranded in the UK for nearly two months are also preparing to board the first repatriation flight from London to Mumbai on Saturday. The flight from London to Mumbai marks the first of seven Air India routes organised by the government to six Indian cities over the next week. Watch Vande Bharat Mission: India’s evacuation operation picks up pace via air and sea||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vande-bharat-mission-by-air-sea-indias-evacuation-operation-picks-up-pace/articleshow/75637242.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress demands probe by retired judge into death of Jitendra Deshprabhu||PANAJI: The Congress party on Friday demanded an independent inquiry headed by a retired high court judge into the death of two-time MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu. State Congress president Girish Chodankar alleged that Deshprabhu died due to the negligence of Goa Medical College authorities. “There are shocking reports of mission cover-up Covid-19 by the chief minister and health minister, which has now compelled us to demand an impartial inquiry in the interest of the health of people of Goa,” said Chodankar. The Congress party said that authorities have made contradictory statements about Deshprabhu’s Covid-19 test with the GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar claiming that the rapid test came negative. Health minister Rane tweeted that the rapid test kits were never used and only laboratory tests were conducted on Deshprabhu. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that laboratory tests require six hours to give results but Deshprabhu was declared dead just over three hours after he was brought to the hospital. “If there was no rapid test conducted on Deshprabhu but only the laboratory tests, which requires minimum six hours, how was Deshprabhu declared Covid-19 negative when he was declared dead within three hours,” said Chodankar. The Congress party expressed complete sympathy with the Deshprabhu family and demanded that political motives should not be attributed to the demand for an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-congress-demands-probe-by-retired-judge-into-death-of-jitendra-deshprabhu/articleshow/75638015.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana district administration allows restaurants for home delivery from 7am to 7pm||LUDHIANA: From Saturday, restaurants, eateries, sweet shops, ice-cream parlours and juice vends can home deliver from 7am to 7pm. But dining will not be allowed at the joints. While issuing the orders, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the owners will have to follow hygiene standards at workplaces, check temperature of all employees daily and maintain its record and ensure frequent cleaning/disinfection of work surfaces and touch-points such as door handles. “Facemask, which must be changed every day, will be mandatory for all employees, so will be social distancing at workplace. Frequent hand washing and use of sanitisers should be practised,” he added. The directive comes with guidelines: the deliverable food item should be packed hygienically, delivery vehicle be cleaned and sanitized regularly, zero contact while delivering food to customer, contact with common touch-points such as doorbell should be avoided, and facemask and gloves be worn. “Anyone found violating the Covid-19 guidelines will be liable for strict action under the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code,” the order read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-administration-allows-restaurants-for-home-delivery-from-7am-to-7pm/articleshow/75638098.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 9, 2020||Guwahati||Bus from Ajmer Sharif shoots up Assam Covid-19 tally||GUWAHATI: Assam’s number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 58 on Friday after another five passengers of the bus from Ajmer Sharif to Silchar tested positive raising fears of many more such cases from among the remaining travelers by the Rajasthan-registered vehicle. In Guwahati, though the fear is that virus might have gone into community transmission mode after three of the four positive cases reported on Thursday have not been found with any travel history, indicating that it is the virus, which might have traveled in a human carrier to the state from outside. The four positive cases in Guwahati, include a 16-year-old girl, who was tested positive after her death, a 55-year-old housewife, a post-graduate medical student in Guwahati Medical College and Hospital and a 44-year-old employee of Tata, who is the lone case with a travel history from Siliguri. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the situation has deteriorated since the bus from Ajmer Sharif arrived in Silchar on Wednesday morning. “Five more persons, who travelled in the bus from Rajasthan have tested positive today. Yesterday and day before yesterday five others from the bus had tested positive,” Himanta said. He said that a 53-year-old passenger, who tested positive on Thursday, has been found with “massive viral load.” He added, “This is the first positive person with such high virus load in his body and so we fear that the number of positive cases from among the bus passengers might increase. But, we were able to bring all the passengers to the facility quarantine within a short span of time and so the transmission may not have taken place outside.” “But, in Guwahati where three of the four positive persons reported yesterday did not have any travel history, it looks like the virus might have come from outside. We can assume that the virus is in transmission within the city,” Sarma said. He added, “There is no need for any panic. Because, we have tracked the positive cases, completed the contact tracing in three hours and we are getting full cooperation from their families. But, violation of the lockdown under relaxation can send the situation out of control. So do not allow children and elders above 65 years of age to come out of their homes.” He appealed to the people of Guwahati not to break the guidelines during the relaxed lockdown period. “The moment anyone has cough or fever or slightest diarrhea, one should immediately call up 104 or contact a doctor or nearest hospital. Do not ignore these symptoms,” he appealed to the people. The Kamrup (Metro) district administration has declared two hostels of GMCH, where the Covid-19 positive doctor lives and had meals and areas around the Guwahati Medical College Hospital, the employers' colony near the B Barooah Cancer Institute, where the 16-year-old girl is living and the ESI hospital at Kahilipara, where she had gone for treatment and areas in Kharghuli and Chandmari, where the housewife was living, as containment zones. The fourth Covid-19 positive person had returned from Siliguri on May 6 along with two others in a personal vehicle and three of them were screened at Sarusajai. The positive person has been admitted to Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital while his other two friends, who have tested negative are in a facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/bus-from-ajmer-sharif-shoots-up-assam-covid-19-positive-case-tally/articleshow/75638355.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 13-year-old commits suicide in Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: A 13-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself with a ceiling fan at her house in Farakpur police station area of Yamunanagar on Thursday late evening. The deceased has been identified as a student of Class VII of a private school in the area. On receiving the information, the police reached the spot for inspection and the girl's dead body has been handed over to family members for last rites after an autopsy report at the civil hospital in Yamunanagar. Police sources said the girl used to make videos and upload them on TikTok. Girl's father Virender told the police that his wife was suffering from stomach ache on Thursday and he went to take medicine with her. When they returned, they found the door of their room was locked from inside. Upon checking the room from the window, they found that their daughter was hanging with the ceiling fan. Mukesh Kumar, SHO, Farakpur police station said that they were investigating the matter and the reason behind the suicide is yet unknown as no suicide note has been recovered from the spot. SHO said proceedings under Section 174 (police to enquire suicide, etc.) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) have been conducted and body handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-13-year-old-commits-suicide-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/75638492.cms||---
May 9, 2020||India||Have to learn to live with Covid-19: Govt||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Friday said Indians would have to learn to live with coronavirus, indicating there might be no early tapering off of the disease and would require an adjustment to a new normal of social distancing and sanitation that could become part of everyday life for some time to come. Responding to questions over the trajectory of the Covid-19 curve in the context of AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria’s comment that there could be a peak in June-July, Union health ministry spokesperson Lav Agarwal said community support was needed to fight the infection and to manage it at the current levels. “When we are talking of relaxations and migrant workers coming back, we are faced with a major challenge. We have to learn to live with the virus, and for that we need to introduce certain behavioural changes, to implement social distancing practices to combat this virus. It is a difficult battle and we need everyone’s cooperation and community support,” Agarwal said. The official’s remarks pointed to a long drawn battle where pre-lockdown normalcy might not be feasible for some time. Rather, the possibility of containment strategies being a regular feature as the infection waxes and wanes, or erupts due to local outbreaks even if the curve flattens, seems to be a likely scenario with public and private interactions adjusting to the new rules of engagement. At the same time, the comments can be seen as an effort to "normalise" life to the best possible extent with many parts of the country showing improvement. In 216 districts, no positive case has been detected. In 42 districts, no new case has been reported in the last 28 days, while 29 districts have had none in 21 days. Besides, 36 districts have not reported any case for 14 days and 46 none for the last seven days, Agarwal said. As many as 3,390 new positive cases and 103 deaths were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours, taking the total Covid-19 cases in India to 56,342. Of this, 37,916 are active while 1,886 people have died, according to the ministry’s data. The comments came in the wake of worsening of the doubling rate over the last one week from 12 days to 10, led by a sharp rise in positive cases in some states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi where the Centre has pointed out major gaps in containment measures and contact tracing. Similarly, there has been a catch up in the count in West Bengal. Highlighting that collective effort was required to stop spread of infectious diseases, Agarwal said the disease moved in a certain way even if one state failed to implement 100% of containment measures and this impacted the national graph. The recovery rate from the disease has improved to 29.36%, as compared to around 13% in the middle of April. Data also showed less severity of the disease with 3.2% of the total active cases on oxygen support, 4.2% in ICUs and 1.1% on ventilator support. Responding to a query on when India was likely to see a peak in Covid-19 cases, Agarwal said, “If we follow the required dos and don'ts, we may not reach the peak in number of cases and our curve may continue to remain flat.” Watch Have to learn to live with Covid-19, says government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-to-learn-to-live-with-covid-19-govt/articleshow/75638429.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 9, 2020||Patna||Baby rhino born at Patna zoo||PATNA: Amid the lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic, the birth of a baby rhino at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, has brought cheers to animal lovers in the city. With this, the number of rhinos at the city zoo has increased to 12. The female baby rhino was born to Gauri (18) and Ayodhya (30) around 5pm on Friday. A team of veterinary doctor, including five from Bihar Veterinary College, are closely monitoring the mother and the calf. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of department of environment, forests and climate change, said both the mother and the calf are doing fine. “Gauri was separated from other rhinos on Thursday and kept under observation of veterinary doctors. She gave birth to the baby rhino around 5pm,” he said. He added, “During this period, the mother will keep the calf close to her at the separate enclosure while the zoo keepers will monitor the activities from distance. The usual gestation period of a rhino is 16 months.” The principal secretary also announced that they are expecting another rhino calf from mother Rani, who is likely to complete her gestation period next month. Zoo director Amit Kumar said animal keepers have focused on the food being given to the lactating mother. With new member in the zoo family, the number of rhinos increased to 12, including six male and five female and a calf. In one- horned rhino count, Patna has on the top position in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/baby-rhino-born-at-patna-zoo/articleshow/75633913.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 9, 2020||Patna||Lockdown helps Bihar police trace ‘missing’ persons||PATNA: The lockdown has its other advantages than containing Covid-19 spread. It has helped police trace persons going missing from home. Some of the cases are related to persons with learning difficulties, who could not have got traced easily in normal situation. Two such cases have surfaced in Rupaspur police station area in Patna. A 12-year-old child and the middle-aged wife of a DSP posted in Bihar Military Police were traced soon after they had gone missing. Rupaspur police station SHO Chandra Bhanu said the child went missing a week back from his accommodation at Vijay Nagar when no one in his family was at home. “He was traced after four days on May 5. He was unable to go far due to non-availability of transportation,” Bhanu said, adding the child’s mother works as a domestic help while father is a mason. Bhanu said the DSP’s wife lived with her two daughters in Rupaspur area while the officer is posted in another district. “She was under medication for mental stress. Two weeks back, she left home for purchasing fruits and went missing. But she was found at Hanuman Mandir near Patna Junction the very next day,” he said, adding it would have been difficult in normal situation to trace her so fast. The SHO said police have failed to trace several persons who went missing before the lockdown. Digha police station SHO Manoj Kumar Singh also said missing persons are getting traced quickly and easily due to the lockdown. “A teacher’s 19-year-old son with learning difficulties went missing from their Bank Colony residence a fortnight back. But he was traced at Gandhi Ghat within 24 hours,” he said. Another 23-year-old girl with learning difficulties went missing from her rented accommodation at Anand Puri under Patliputra police station on May 1. SHO SK Shahi said the victim was traced at Rupaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-helps-police-trace-missing-persons/articleshow/75634901.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 9, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav questions Bihar government on sending workers to Telangana||PATNA/KHAGARIA: A day after around 250 migrant workers of Khagaria boarded a special train to Telangana, leader of opposition in legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav raised question on their safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “At a time when states are bringing back their people stranded in other parts of the country, Bihar government is sending back migrant workers. Is the government supporting reverse migration or working as a manpower agency … This is migration forced by government. Will Bihar government take responsibility, if anything happens to these workers?” Tejashwi said in a statement on Friday. However, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the workers were allowed to return following a request from Telangana government to send them back for working in the rice mills. The workers themselves agreed, he said. Around 250 migrant workers early Thursday morning left Khagaria by a special train (03001) for Lingampalli on the request of Bihar and Telangana governments, East Central Railway’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said on Friday. “Majority of them used to work earlier in Telangana,” he said. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh and other officials were present at the time of train’s departure. Officials in Khagaria said the migrant workers hailed from Beldaur and Chautham blocks of the district. They said they had earlier worked at different rice mills in Telangana and returned during Holi festival. They were transported to Telangana after proper medical screening at the local agriculture marketing yard (AMY). The sources said the migrant workers agreed to go back to Lingampalli on the assurance of enhanced wages. Meanwhile, Rajesh said railways has got no other request from the Bihar government to run more outbound special trains to send back migrant workers to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-questions-state-govt-on-sending-workers-to-telangana/articleshow/75633671.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government teachers told to join duty on May 15||JAIPUR: The school education department has ordered around 55,000 government teachers to report for duty on May 15. The order drew sharp criticism from teachers who said it was not possible to reach schools without public transport. Primary and Secondary Teachers Association general secretary Vipin Sharma said the government was unnecessarily harassing teachers. “We won’t be able to join work until May 30. In rural areas, villagers have barricaded routes preventing anyone from entering. If we go from other districts, we won’t be allowed entry in the village and in our rented accommodations we have taken,” said Sharma. Teachers are requesting the government to re-consider this or allow them to quarantine them in school buildings for a while. The government said that pregnant women, people nearing retirement or unwell people are not required to report for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-teachers-told-to-join-duty-on-may-15/articleshow/75637015.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana pays for train, gets back migrant workers from Bihar||HYDERABAD: Even as the Bihar government is working to bring back its migrant labourers stranded across the country due to the extended lockdown, a group of 225 workers from that state landed in Telangana on Friday. The workers took the train that reached Patna from Telangana on Thursday. They will be working in various rice mills in the state where paddy harvesting is at its peak now. The workers from Khagaria in Munger division got down at Lingampalli railway station. “This is only a beginning. We are working towards bringing back thousands of migrant workers who had left since the lockdown was announced in March,” Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, chairman, Telangana Rashtra Samanvaya Samithi (TRSS), told TOI. The workers will be sent to Nalgonda, Miryalaguda, Karimnagar, Kamareddy, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Sultanabad, Mancherial and Siddipet. The workers had arrived by a special Shramik Express with the state government bearing their travel expenditure, Rajeshwar said. On their arrival, they were welcomed with a rose flower each by civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar. Sources said the Khagaria workers were willing to return as they were paid Rs 1,200 a day in Telangana, which is much higher than what a worker earns (about Rs 300 per day) in Bihar. Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had said these labourers had come during Holi and could not go back because of escalation in Covid-19 cases. In the meantime, the Telangana government has been contacting the Bihar authorities to facilitate the workers’ return, sources said. The idea of bringing back the Bihar workers came from rice millers, sources said. Because of the bumper harvest, rice millers rely heavily on them for harvesting. The millers had even said if the government permitted they would organise buses to bring them back from Bihar. “The workers who arrived on Friday have worked in rice mills before. They have the skill of packing, loading and unloading rice bags into lorries and other vehicles,” a rice miller said. Rice mill owners said they would take care of the migrant workers. Apart from providing dry ration, the government gave Rs 500 to each worker during the lockdown period. The state government, however, said it would continue to operate special trains to ferry migrant workers willing to go to their native states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reverse-migration-better-wages-brings-225-from-bihar-back-to-t/articleshow/75637046.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 9, 2020||Patna||Traders do brisk business on Day 1 as shops open after 6 weeks||PATNA: People in the city heaved a sigh of relief as shops selling electrical and electronics appliances, automobile spare parts and building construction materials opened on Friday after six weeks. Some pollution-under-control (PUC) centres also reopened. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said shops, except those in containment zones and inside shopping complexes and malls, have only been permitted to remain open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “We are strictly monitoring the shops which reopened on Friday. The call on opening or closing shops in certain locations depending on the situation will be taken by the district administration. Shops in Harihar Chamber under Buddha Colony police station, Chandni Market and Maurya Lok Complex under Kotwali police station and Raja Bajar under Shastri Nagar police station will remain closed as these areas are close to containment zones,” the DM added. Trade and commerce bodies said though the reopening of shops might not help them recover losses suffered in the last six weeks, it will definitely prevent further losses. Bihar Chamber of Commerce president P K Agarwal said since the government has given relief to residents and traders, they should follow all social distancing norms. “The reopening of shops will also give employment to daily wagers who were completely jobless due to the lockdown,” he said. Traders said they are taking all precautionary measures and following social distancing norms to prevent spread of coronavirus. Some claimed that they received a great response from people on the first day of reopening of shops. Ajay Kumar Singh, general manager of an electronics appliances’ showroom, said the customers’ response was unexpectedly good. “We didn’t expect so many customers on the first day. Many of them waited in long queues as we worked with 25% staff strength,” he added. Some shop owners, on the other hand, said they hardly received any customer. “The number of per day customers has reduced from 35-40 to two,” said Shashi Bhushan Pratap, owner of a cement shop in Rukanpura. Several vehicle owners also thronged PUC centres. Afroz, owner of a PUC centre in Buddha Colony, said many vehicle owners collected PUC from his centre. The reopening of shops has also elated residents. Kankarbagh resident Gaurav Verma, whose cellphone’s charger broke a day after lockdown began, finally bought a new one on Friday. “I am relieved now. Spending lockdown days without a cellphone is very difficult,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-do-brisk-business-on-day-1-as-shops-open-after-6-weeks/articleshow/75634673.cms||Archi Rani
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Social distancing in schools a challenge||BELAGAVI: It is not without some degree of trepidation that parents are awaiting the reopening of schools for the upcoming academic year. More specifically, parents of children who attend government schools are particularly anxious about how the overcrowded institutions will implement social distancing. In the six districts that comprise Kalyanaka Karnataka – Bidar, Yadgir, Koppal, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Ballari – there are more than 15 government schools that boast a strength of more than 500 students. However, not all the schools have an adequate number of rooms to house all students comfortably. In fact, accommodation of all the students is among the challenges that teachers and other staff at these schools face on a daily basis. Syed Hafizullah, an activist in the education sector in Raichur district, said that in many schools, as many as seven students were crowded on to a single bench, and many of them had no option but to sit on the floor. “It is rather unfortunate that the government has not taken note of these crowded schools and thought of addressing the problem. The plight of students at these schools is too tortuous even to imagine. Leave alone social distancing, many of these schools do not even have adequate washrooms,” said Hafizullah. Secretary of Bharatiya Gnana Vignana Samithi, Kalaburagi Nagendra said that the state government must entrust the responsibility of providing accurate information about schools the strength of which is greater that the infrastructure can handle to block education officers (BLOs). Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar recently directed officials and other personnel in the department to ensure that not more than one student would be seated on a bench, and that the strength of each classroom would not exceed 24. Govinda, a parent in Raichur, admitted to being afraid of sending his kid considering the possibility of transmission of the fatal infection. Rekha, mother of a student at a school in Yapaldinni in Raichur, said that the institution had 560 students in all. Manohar, a Bidar-based activist, said that nearly 15% of all schools across Kalyana Karnataka will be faced with the challenge of enforcing social distancing. Calling on the government to focus on the problem, he said that schools in localities that had a large population, ought to move students to a larger structure. “The government will have to conduct a thorough survey before these institutions are reopened,” Manohar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/social-distancing-in-schools-a-challenge/articleshow/75633250.cms||Shreyas HS
May 9, 2020||Business||10-year yield at 5.7%, lowest since 2009||MUMBAI: The benchmark yield on 10-year government bonds softened to 5.7% in Friday’s trading, an 11-year low reading as banks, flush with funds but unwilling to lend in the current uncertain market conditions, bid aggressively in the weekly auction. A falling benchmark yield is an indication that the rate of interest in the economy could fall further. Incidentally, given the flood of liquidity in the system, the government has mopped up Rs 23,000 crore through the last two weekly auctions against a planned amount of Rs 19,000 crore. According to Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist & head of research, Bandhan Bank, government bond yield softened on expected lines reflecting sharp downtrend in growth prospects, large liquidity infusion and lowering of policy rates by the RBI. “However, today’s revision in borrowing could sharply push yields higher. Generally, going ahead, given likely uncertainties about fiscal deficit and the RBI’s stance of monetising the same, one expects yields to exhibit considerable volatility,” Sanyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/10-yr-yield-at-5-7-lowest-since-2009/articleshow/75636301.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Business||Virus hits SBI Cards Q4 profit||Mumbai: SBI Cards and Payment Services has said the Covid-19 crisis has knocked Rs 579 crore from its fourth-quarter profit by way of additional provisions and late fee reversals. The credit card company said it generated a profit after tax of Rs 1,244 crore for FY20 — a 44% increase, from Rs 865 crore for FY19 Rs 1,245 cr for FY20. Excluding the virus’s impact, the post-tax profit for FY20 would have been Rs 1,662 crore. SBI Card is the credit card subsidiary of the country’s largest bank SBI. It is the only standalone credit card company in the country and this is its first financial results after listing earlier this year. “The extent to which the pandemic will impact the company’s operations and financial results is dependent on future developments, which are highly uncertain. Further, in accordance with the RBI circulars dated March 27 and April 17 and to provide relief to borrowers on account of Covid-19 pandemic, SBI Cards has offered a moratorium on credit card dues to eligible borrowers and has created an additional management overlay on expected credit loss amounting to Rs 489 crore, the company said. Interest income increased by Rs 1,266 crore, or 35.4%, from Rs 3,576 crore for FY19 to Rs 4,841 crore for FY20, primarily due to a 29% increase in the average amounts of credit card receivables in FY20 as compared to FY19. At the same time, finance costs increased by Rs 292 crore, or 29%, from Rs 1,009 crore for FY19 to Rs 1,301 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/virus-hits-sbi-cards-q4-profit/articleshow/75636787.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||Gaya district admn gives conditional nod to stores||GAYA: Gaya DM Abhishek Singh on Thursday evening notified a schedule for allowing conditional opening of shops in the town. As per the notification, the shops have been divided into three categories. While some shops will remain open six days a week, except Sunday, other shops will open three days a week and that too between 10 in the morning and 4 in the afternoon. Textile shops, readymade garments, tailoring shops, bullion shops and foot wear among few other category of shops will not be allowed to open. One category of shops will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while another category of shops will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. All shops will remain closed on Sunday. Shops selling electrical goods, including fans, air coolers, air- conditioners, electronic goods like mobile phones, computer, laptops and UPS among others will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Automobile spare part shops, lubricants, tyres and tubes among others will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Repair shops of different categories will remain open on days on which, the main items will be sold. Garages, workshops, high security registration plate shops, pollution testing centres and shops selling construction material, including steel, cement, stone chips, hard ware, plastic pipes, sanitary fittings and shuttering material will remain open on all days of the week, except Sunday. The conditions attached with the permission to open shops, include mandatory wearing of the masks by the buyers as well as sellers, maintenance of the social distancing norms and proper markings outside the shops. Sub- divisional officer has been given the power to make changes as per local situation and order closure of shops even during permitted day and hours, if the situation demands. But the SDOs will not have the power to add to the category of shops being allowed to open. Asked whether the ban on plying of private vehicles too has been relaxed during shop opening hours, the DM said that the restriction on vehicle will remain effective as Gaya has been placed in the red zone. “Only cyclists and pedestrians would be allowed to move for shopping purposes. The vehicle ban includes rickshaws, cycle rickshaws as well as e-rickshaws,” said Singh. Traders have not taken kindly to the continued restriction on the plying of vehicles for shopping purposes. “The vehicle ban virtually makes the shop opening exercise futile,” said DK Jain, former president of the Central Bihar chamber of Commerce. He also demanded the inclusion of textile shops, readymade garments, foot wear and bullion in the list of permitted categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-district-admn-gives-conditional-nod-to-stores/articleshow/75634731.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar man held, stolen gold biscuits and jewellery seized||PATNA: Police arrested one Mohan Kumar (30) from Shivaji Nagar Bagicha under the Digha police station area in Patna on Friday and recovered stolen gold biscuits, jewellery and cash worth around Rs 20 lakh from his possession. SHO of Digha police station Manoj Kumar Singh said three gold biscuits, 250 grams of gold jewellery, 500 grams of silver jewellery and Rs 3.75 lakh in cash were seized by police. The SHO said one Vijay Kumar was arrested a week back in connection with theft in a locked house of a bank officer at Bank Colony on the intervening the night of April 20 and April 21 amid lockdown. “Mohan, one of Vijay’s associates, was arrested on Friday. He had kept the booty in his rented house,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-held-stolen-gold-biscuits-jewellery-seized/articleshow/75634117.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Vaccination rate dips in Tamil Nadu, threat of infections up||CHENNAI: One in every four children in Tamil Nadu did not get the mandatory vaccine under the state’s free vaccination programme. The lapse, say doctors, could lead to another health crisis. Village health nurses who administer vaccines close to people’s homes have cancelled camps either because they can’t enter containment zones or because they are on Covid-19 duties. The directorate of public health has to vaccinate 78,669 children across TN by May 10. Until Friday, only 58,610 (74.5%) were vaccinated. "We may not see high increase over the weekend," a senior official said. Records from private hospitals show that up to 20% of parents are cancelling hospital visits fearing exposure to the virus. Senior paediatricians and infectious diseases experts say a dip in immunisation rate can put millions of children at risk of measles, whooping cough and other illnesses. "The state may be betting on the fact that children are at home, but when the lockdown is over and when summer peaks, there’s threat of a measles outbreak," said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan. "If we don’t act, we may not be able to achieve measles-elimination status," he said. The state vaccination register shows that only 78% of children in the universal vaccination programme got their measles vaccination in April and an almost equal number of them got the pentavalent vaccine. "We were not able to enter many zones in the past four weeks," said a senior village health nurse in Villupuram. "Parents were scared that a fever post vaccination may be confused with Covid-19." Paediatricians said TN must resume vaccinations with adequate safety measures. "If not immediately, at least after the lockdown," said Dr S Balasubramaniam, medical director Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital. Health department officials said they will organise a vaccination camp in early June and intensify drives. "A massive exercise is being planned with instructions to health workers and care givers," said joint director, immunisation, Dr C Sekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vaccination-rate-dips-in-tn-threat-of-infections-up/articleshow/75637005.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 9, 2020||Patna||MLAs for ordinance to annul SC order||PATNA: Around a dozen scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) MLAs from across political parties met on Friday on the state assembly premises, demanding that the Centre should pass an ordinance to annul the Supreme Court order on February 7. The State industries minister Shyam Rajak said the Supreme Court order had left the matter of quota in promotion to the discretion of the state government while also maintaining that those who have enjoyed the benefits of reservation should be alienated from it on account of their economic uplift. Rajak said the apex court has also said in its order that the government should periodically review the quota benefit meant for them, so that the place vacated by those who have availed it leading to their economic uplift were given to more poor among them. As many as 22 of the MLAs had also signed a four-page petition drafted on the issues. They sent it separately to President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi, urging them to take the required “judicious decision” to annul the apex court order and put the constitutionally given reservation benefits to the SC and ST sections, including with regard to public representation under the People’s Representation Act, in the 9th schedule of the Constitution to prevent any dilution even in the future. “We have also sent the letter to CM Nitish Kumar,” Rajak said, adding they would meet again on May 18 to discuss the strategy to be adopted after the lockdown is lifted. He said a coordination committee would be formed and all the 40 SC and ST MLAs would call on the President and PM to apprise them of their concerns. Among those who participated in the Friday meet were former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Lalan Paswan, Shivchandra Ram and Ramprit Paswan, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mlas-for-ordinance-to-annul-sc-order/articleshow/75633757.cms||Abhay Singh
May 9, 2020||Patna||Return of migrants: Bihar, Delhi govts spar over train fare||PATNA: The Bihar government on Friday lashed out at Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government after the latter demanded reimbursement of ticket fare for sending migrant workers by Shramik special trains to Bihar. The social welfare department of Delhi government had sent a letter to Bihar government’s disaster management department on May 7, seeking reimbursement of fare for Shramik special train from Delhi to Muzafarpur. The letter written by state nodal officer of Delhi government, P K Gupta, stated that the Delhi government will make payment for buying bulk tickets for migrant workers and seek reimbursement from the government of Bihar. Bihar water resources minister and close aide of CM Nitish Kumar, Sanjay Jha, accused the Delhi government of lying and said the Bihar government would not reimburse even a single penny to the Kejriwal government. “CM Nitish Kumar has already announced that each migrant worker will be reimbursed the train fare at their respective quarantine centres,” Jha said. According to sources, railways bears 85% of the total expenses in running a Shramik special train and the rest 15% is borne either by the state from where the migrant workers are leaving or the state where they are reaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/return-of-migrants-bihar-delhi-govts-spar-over-train-fare/articleshow/75634855.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 9, 2020||Patna||Over 10 cr people screened across 20 dists in state||PATNA: The state health department has carried out door-to-door screening of over 10 crore people covering 20 districts in the state as part of its ambitious programme to check for Covid-19 symptoms in people on the lines of the pulse polio programme. According to Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health), altogether 3,848 people have been found with symptoms of fever with cough and shortness of breath during the screening carried out in Araria, Arwal, Banka, Begusarai, Bhojpur, Buxar, Gaya, Gopalganj, Jamui, Khagaria, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Nalanda, Nawada, Rohtas, Saharsa, Saran Sheikhpura, Siwan and Vaishali. Of the 3,848 people screened, 3,391 showed symptoms of fever, cough and breathlessness despite not having travelled outside the state recently. The rest 419 with symptoms had returned from other states and 38 of them had returned from abroad. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ragini Mishra said, “The door-to-door screening campaign has helped the health department identify suspected cases. Not only is it helping us to take early precautions, it is also creating awareness among people.” Health department officials said at least 8,000 teams engaged with the polio programme and more than 20,000 health personnel are involved in the massive drive, which will cover all 38 districts. “Special attention has been given to those above 60 years. We are also taking feedback from all medical shops and informal health service providers on patients,” an official said. In Saran, over 6.25 lakh houses were surveyed and over 37.1 lakh people were screened. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen said several teams of Asha, Anganwadi and other health workers were formed to conduct the survey. “The surveyors were given daily briefing on Covid-19 and feedback was taken from them,” he said. Health workers carrying out the survey complained that many people didn’t cooperate. Varun Kumar, who supervised a team in Nalanda district, said, “People asked a lot of questions and at times stopped us from conducting the survey. Moreover, despite knowing that we were health workers, we were stopped at the entrance of several villages where we had to convince people to let us enter.” ASHA worker, Sunita Kumari has surveyed around 350 houses in Gaya. “I used to visit at least 60-70 houses per day. People often asked me and other health workers to spray bleaching powder in their houses, which was not possible for us,” she said. On the other hand, residents of some districts claimed screening was not done in their areas. Md Adib, resident of Saluganj locality in Biharsharif, claimed that nobody came to his house for door- to- door screening. “I heard that screening was done in the containment zones but nobody came to our locality,” he said. Several others, however, confirmed that screening was done in their area. “Asha workers had come to every house, asked for symptoms like cough and cold and house numbering was also done,” said Mannu Tiwari, resident of Tiwari Chakia village in Bhorey block in Gopalganj district. Asked about the steps that will be taken after migrants from foreign countries arrive in the state, Dr Mishra said screening will further step up. “We will also go for aggressive testing of the migrants. Only if we don’t get positive cases, we will be able to say that the spread of virus is stabilizing,” she adde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-10-cr-people-screened-across-20-dists-in-state/articleshow/75634227.cms||Archi Rani
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Relaxation of restrictions does not go down well with Kalaburagi residents||Kalaburagi: The relaxation given for some shops to open — after 47 days of lockdown — was shortlived. Though the order easing the lockdown came in the morning, it was taken back by the evening. The government had allowed opening of jewellery and cloth showrooms, and shops selling books and stationery, utensils, mobile phones, electronic gadgets/ home appliances, hardware and paints, hotels and bakeries (only parcel). However, the district administration withdrew the same on Thursday evening, saying people did not maintain social distance during the day. The spurt in positive cases in Kalabyragi prompted Kalaburagi DC B Sharath to withdraw the relaxations, especially after seeing people not following the lockdown norms. Questioning the move, people sought to know how police are able to ensure order at only wine shops, and not at other shops. On Friday, the district did not register any positive case. Of the 67 cases reported so far, 6 have died and 29 discharged, leaving the district with 32 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/relaxation-of-restrictions-does-not-go-down-well-with-kalaburagi-residents/articleshow/75631944.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||Youths embark on noble mission to feed the poor in Patna||PATNA: At a time when the entire nation is trying to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by staying indoors, this 19-year-old undergraduate is making rounds of the city and distributing food to the needy people. Jeetu Yadav and his team of five members provide home-cooked meals to people staying in the slum areas, construction workers, rickshaw-pullers and daily wage workers. “Our focus is on people stranded without any means to cook and also on those who cannot afford to buy food. Initially, we made a chart of areas where people needed help and then collected money from our parents and even invested our pocket money to help them. We provide food items, including ‘puri-sabzi’ and biscuits, and water to 300-400 people on a daily basis. On certain days, the number goes up to 500 people,” he said. Yadav said helping those in distress has been like an adventure for him. “The look on their faces when we serve them food leaves us in tears. A lot of them were starving for two-three days. People in the city, especially the youths, should extend their hands and help the needy,” he said. Yadav, a resident of Boring Canal Road, added, “As we got permission for commuting on the roads only from Sri Krishna Puri police station, we were being stopped by cops in other areas and asked not to come out on roads in groups. We had to stop distributing food packets for some days due to the restrictions. However, we resumed the service once again. It’s not possible for a person to distribute food to hundreds of people alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youths-embark-on-noble-mission-to-feed-the-poor/articleshow/75634918.cms||Archi Rani
May 9, 2020||Business||US firm Vista Equity buys 2.3% stake in Reliance Jio for $1.5 billion||MUMBAI: In its third transaction in less than three weeks, the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries (RIL) has struck a deal with US private equity firm Vista Equity Partners for another stake sale in Jio Platforms. The Texas-based tech-focused fund will pay Rs 11,367 crore ($1.5 billion) for 2.32% in Jio, which will be its biggest investment outside of its home country and its first in Asia. The deal will make Vista the largest shareholder of Jio after Facebook (9.99%) and parent RIL (86.54%). With this, RIL has raised a total of Rs 60,596 crore ($7.9 billion), boosting its efforts to pare debt. On April 22, RIL announced that it had secured a Rs 43,574-crore ($5.7-billion) investment from Facebook and, just days later, it cut a Rs 5,656-crore ($750-million) deal with private equity firm Silver Lake for a 1.15% stake in its telecom and technology company. Vista’s investment pegs an equity valuation of Rs 4.91 lakh crore for Jio, similar to the value assigned by Silver Lake’s investment and at a 12.5% premium to Facebook’s deal. Jio’s valuation, when compared with listed companies, makes it the fourth most valued in India after HDFC Bank, TCS and RIL and ties it with consumer products major HUL. The receipts from Vista will be used by Jio to buy back RIL’s optionally convertible preference shares, which means that the entire amount will go to RIL. The Vista deal will further help in pegging the equity value of Jio and improve RIL’s cash flows, accelerating its deleveraging exercise, said analysts at Axis Capital in their research report. RIL plans to eliminate Rs 1.75 lakh crore of net debt by the end of this financial year. RIL, controlled by Ambani, who is India’s richest person, had said that several global firms have shown interest in taking a stake in Jio. And analysts expect more deals in Jio in the near future.Bloomberg reported that Saudi Arabia’s $320-billion sovereign wealth fund is exploring a potential investment in Jio. The Axis Capital report further said that funds like Vista and Silver Lake primarily invest in technology platforms and not in telecom companies, which will further reposition Jio (which owns India’s largest mobile services carrier) as a consumer/technology outfit. Vista, founded by Robert Smith and Brian Sheth in 2000, manages assets worth $57 billion. Though Jio will be Vista’s maiden investment in India, its portfolio companies have a significant presence in the country with over 13,000 employees. “In Robert and Brian, whose family hails from Gujarat, I found two outstanding global technology leaders who believe in India and the transformative potential of a digital Indian society,” said RIL chairman Ambani. “We are excited to leverage the professional expertise and multi-level support that Vista has been offering to its investments globally for the benefit of Jio.” The Vista transaction and the other two deals—Facebook and Silver Lake—are yet to receive regulatory and other customary approvals. “Mukesh’s vision as a global pioneer, alongside Jio’s world-class leadership team, have built a platform to scale and advance the data revolution it started. We are thrilled to join Jio Platforms to deliver exponential growth in connectivity across India, providing modern consumer, small business and enterprise software to fuel the future of one of the world’s fastest growing digital economies,” said Vista chairman Smith, who is also the richest black American. Through Jio, investors like Vista and Silver Lake hope to earn good returns as and when the telecom and technology company goes public, which is part of Ambani’s plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-firm-vista-equity-buys-2-3-stake-in-jio-for-1-5bn/articleshow/75636180.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Tantrik held for rape of woman in Barmer||JAISALMER: A married woman suffering from high blood pressure in Dhorimanna area of Barmer district was taken to an occultist for treatment who raped her. On Thursday, police arrested the accused. The woman’s medical examination was conducted and her statement recorded under Section 164. “A woman was suffering from hypertension for last many days in a village in Dhorimanna area. Her family members took her to an occultist for treatment. On May 4, occultist Ladhu Ram Vishnoi took the woman to a crematorium and raped her,” Barmer SP Anand Sharma said. “The woman had on May 5 lodged a case saying that she was unwell for 3-4 months. She had gone to Vishnoi for treatment a month back. He gave her a coconut and asked her to hang it at the place where she sleeps,” Sharma added. “The tantrik had said that he would visit the woman’s house on Ekadashi and perform a puja. On May 4, the tantrik visited her house and told her husband and brother-in-law that some spirit had come from the woman’s parental village. He asked the family to perform puja at the crematorium at her parental village. When they reached the crematorium, Vishnoi sent the husband and brother-in-law for some work and took the woman 2km away where he raped her,” the SP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tantrik-held-for-rape-of-woman-in-barmer/articleshow/75637014.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: No new Covid-19 case, 3 hotspots shift to green zone||VARANASI: No new Covid-19 positive case was reported in the district on the second consecutive day on Friday. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh, as many as 52 samples were collected on Friday for testing. So far 2,787 samples have been collected in the district. The test reports of 2,548 have been received, while the results of 239 samples are awaited. Out of total test results, 2,471 tested negative and 77 tested positive for Covid-19. So far 21 patients have recovered from illness, and at present there are 55 active cases in the district. Among 26 hotspots, three hotspots including Bajardiha, Gangapur and Lohta shifted to green zone, while Nakkhighat is in orange zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-new-covid-19-case-3-hotspots-shift-to-green-zone/articleshow/75634509.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Shops opened, crackers set off; 18 held||AHMEDABAD: Thirteen persons, including a woman, were arrested from various parts of eastern Ahmedabad for selling vegetables, tea, and other items in violation of the lockdown norms. In another case, five people were arrested by Isanpur police for setting off crackers. All have been booked under Section 188 of IPC for violating a notification and also under the Epidemic Act. All accused were released on bail from the police station. According to police sources, cops on patrol found 13 shops open in Bapunagar, Sardarnagar, Odhav, Narol, Naroda, Isanpur, and Krishnanagar. “A number of persons were found to be gathering near these shops. We then arrested 13 shopkeepers,” said a senior police official. As for the Isanpur case, police had got hold of a video clip. “Probing the case on the basis of the video, we found that it was Gordhan Park society,” said a senior police official of the Isanpur police station. “We interrogated several persons of the society and caught the five people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shops-opened-crackers-set-off-18-held/articleshow/75636175.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||New containment zones come up in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several south Kolkata neighbourhoods, which had managed to stave off coronavirus for the past 40 days, are now on the city’s containment-zone map with fresh cases being reported from them. The affected portions include added areas — both sides of the Tolly canal, EM Bypass and Behala — and some upscale south Kolkata locations, like Lord Sinha Road and Hindustan Park. In the past 72-hours, containment zones have come up in Baisnabghata, Patuli, Purba Putiary, Haridevpur and Sakuntala Park. Belts that border these areas, like Sonarpur, Harinavi and Maheshtala, have several containment zones. According to the health department data, there are 24 containment zones in south Kolkata zones between KMC wards 99 and 111. Containment zones have come up in Sree Colony, Brahmapur, Ramkrishnanagar, Ramthakur Sarani in Jadavpur, Purba Putiary, Dinesh Pally, Regent Park, New Santoshpur, APC Park in Patuli and Baisnabghata Lane. There are at least 10 zones in Mukundapur, Ahallanagar, Baghajatin Park, Madurdaha, Chowbaga and Martinpara. The containment zones include some major slum clusters, including Shahid Smriti Colony. Former councillor of ward 100 Susmita Dam said “There is a case on Baisnabghata Lane. The woman is in hospital but her son is in home quarantine. But there are too many cases in Mukundapur and Patuli.” Behala, too, has reported a sudden spurt in cases, mainly from wards 128 and 130. “There are reports from Becharam Chatterjee Street and Sakuntala Park. We are closing all the bigger markets and gathering zones within 8km of Joka ESI Hospital,” said Indrajit Bhattacharya, former councillor of ward 143. A prominent market in Thakurpukur has been shut for the next two weeks after cops found a variety of shops, other than groceries, vegetables, and fish and meat, had opened up. Meanwhile, residents of some localities in Thakurpukur have put up barricades at the entry points to their neighbourhoods to keep outsiders away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-containment-zones-come-up-in-s-kolkata/articleshow/75636070.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||A’bad-like shutdown rumours quashed||Vadodara: A day after authorities announced stringent lockdown rules in Ahmedabad, rumours went rife in the city that a similar rule will be brought about in Vadodara. After messages were circulated widely on Thursday, cops stepped in to quash the rumours and state categorically that no such action was being planned. “People shouldn’t believe such rumours. We have no plans to shut the city down. Vegetables, milk and grocery shops will be open,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The cops have warned citizens against spreading any rumours that can cause the panic. “Police complaint will be filed against those who circulate such messages without verifying. We don’t want people to come out of their homes and indulge in panic buying leading to risk of spreading the virus,” said a police official. The police have said that grocery and bakery shops can operate from 7 am to 2 pm. Medical stores as well as milk parlours can operate from 7 am to 7 pm.  Cybercrime cell, meanwhile, said that it was keeping an eye on the social media to ensure that rumour mongers don’t do any mischief and cause panic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abad-like-shutdown-rumours-quashed/articleshow/75634229.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||E-learning need of the hour: Experts||PATNA: Around 600 teachers participated in a two-day international webinar on ‘Role of e-learning during lockdown: Academic challenges and the road ahead’, jointly organised by department of education of Patna Women’s College (PWC) and IQAC. PWC principal Sr M Rashmi AC emphasized on the accessibility of e-learning platforms to the bottom of pyramids. The three esteemed resource persons delivered special talk during the technical sessions of the webinar. Fr G Valan Arasu, principal of St Aloysius College, Jabalpur (MP) spoke on the ‘Adoption and usage of e-learning tools for diverse learners: possibilities and challenges’. He highlighted the extensive outreach of e-learning tools amid the current pandemic situation. In the second technical session, Kaushal Kishore, dean of School of Education, Central University of South Bihar, delivered a lecture on ‘Centrality and invisibility of teachers in e-learning: effective strategies for teaching and communication’. He emphasised on the role of teachers in carrying out effective learning techniques for e-communication. Sunita Singh Sengupta, dean of faculty of management studies, University of Delhi, delivered a lecture on ‘Use of e-learning strategies for effective mentoring, spiritual well- being and peaceful co-existence’. She talked about the importance of spirituality and proper mentoring even for technical effectiveness. The webinar began with a ‘bhajan’ and a short prayer service by Sr M Tanisha AC, vice-principal of the host college. Upasana Singh, head of department of education, moderated the technical sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/e-learning-need-of-the-hour-experts/articleshow/75634963.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Business||Wipro gets labour department notice over benching staff, salary cuts||PUNE: The Pune labour commissioner’s office recently issued a notice to technology giant Wipro after receiving complaints of alleged benching of 300 employees, and salary cuts of an undisclosed number of entry level staffers, most of whom are BPO employees. In its May 1 notice to Wipro, the labour office referred to a March 31, 2020 advisory of the state government and told the company to “refrain from laying off any employee or face legal action”. It also directed the company to show compliance and notify the office about the remedial action taken at the earliest. The company said it was yet to receive any communication from the labour department and would present the facts as and when required. In a statement to TOI, Wipro said, “The speculation related to the workforce is unfounded and has no basis. Wipro categorically denies these rumours. There are no salary cuts for employees who are in between projects and are awaiting new assignments. Also, the company wants to reiterate that there are no retrenchment plans. Wipro has well defined policies and people practices in place to take care of its employees.” TIMES VIEWCompanies like Wipro and Capgemini employ huge numbers of skilled, educated people. Wipro has denied retrenching anyone, but even if it were to send employees on unpaid leave when business is down, as Capgemini seems to have (we still don’t have the full facts), it is entirely their call. To ask them to show cause is not only harassment, it flies in the face of labour market flexibility. It is a well established fact that companies hesitate to hire if they fear they won’t be allowed to rationalise in a downturn. Ease of entry and exit is integral to ease of doing business.Harpreet Saluja, general secretary of the National Information Technology Employees Senate (NITES), a union which filed the complaint on behalf of the Wipro employees, said, “This is a policy of companies to put employees on the bench. And, after 2-3 months, they force them to resign or terminate them illegally, stating that they are incapable of handling any new project.” In mid-April, the labour office in Pune had also written to technology major Capgemini over its decision to bench employees with “forced unpaid leave”. Capgemini had then said that it “tweaked” the leave accumulation policy up to the end of June 2020 only as an “interim measure”. Following complaints to the labour office, at least two other companies — Autoone Engineering Services, which subcontracts for Tech Mahindra, and technology firm RNS Worldwide MSSP Pvt Ltd — have reversed their decisions to either lay off employees or hold salaries. In the case of Mumbai-based Hexaware, the company said it has received no notice from the labour office but did get some from lawyers on behalf of a few of its employees. “Some employees in our BPO team assumed that they had been benched and were denied salaries, and they went to a lawyer. We have so far cut no salaries or asked any employee to go. We did appeal to some of our employees who are out of projects if they can use their paid leaves during this period in the spirit of ‘shared-pain’ during these times... In May, we will reassess the situation on cost-cutting measures, as any prudent company must,” Hexaware chief people officer Vishwanath Joshi told TOI. A spokesperson for RNS Worldwide said the employees in question were “absconding interns” and they have been asked to return their laptops after the lockdown and take their cheques. They have received their salaries for March and April, the spokesperson said. Tech Mahindra had not offered comments at the time of going to press, but acknowledged receipt of an email from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wipro-gets-labour-dept-notice-over-benching-staff-salary-cuts/articleshow/75636593.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||As indoor games gain popularity, prices skyrocket||Mysuru: As Covid-19 sends millions sheltering in place, Mysureans are increasingly spending their time and money on indoor games like scrabble, ludo, carrom, trump cards and jigsaw puzzles. According to the vendors, carrom boards are the most popular one in almost every household. Prasanna, proprietor of Pioneer Sports in Kuvempunagar, told TOI that carrom boards are flying off the shelves immediately after shop opened post the nearly six-week lockdown. “The shop was opened on Monday and since then I have sold nearly 70 pieces of carrom boards ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 20,000. Even the old stocks sold like hotcakes within three days,” he added. Cashing in on the opportunity, a local carpenter too claimed he was spending time by making boards of various sizes. However, according to several people, the limited supply of various sports/games accessories is leading to exploitation of game lovers. Several city dwellers who spoke to TOI confirmed that they are paying extra to get the accessories. Previously, while a carrom board powder pack of 84 grams cost Rs 30, now it’s being sold for Rs 100 -120. Similarly a shuttlecock, which was available in the range of Rs 25 to Rs 30 now costs Rs 65-70, explained Sarvesh T, a resident of Lakshmipuram. “Used cards’ pack also are sold for Rs 50 which was earlier available for Rs 20. Ludo has also become costlier now. Common man is the real loser in this lockdown,” he said. “We do not go to the grounds any more due to the lockdown and so naturally there is a demand for indoor games. But sadly rates of accessories are skyrocketing,” said Vishnu Kumar, a student. According to vendors there is hardly any supply of these accessories. “It is natural for sellers to make money when the demand goes up amid supply shortage. But I don’t overcharge as they are all my loyal customers whom I am serving for decades,” said a vendor from Tyagarajanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/as-indoor-games-gain-popularity-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/75633310.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 9, 2020||Patna||Cops scared of corona in crowded barracks||PATNA: Policemen living in crowded barracks are scared as few of their colleagues have been found infected with Covid-19 virus in the state. Though senior police officials said the barracks were being sanitized on a regular basis, maintaining social distancing is difficult as some of these places are overcrowded. “There is no dearth of masks, gloves and sanitisers either in police lines or at police stations,” Rohtas SP Satyaveer Singh said. Bihar Police Men’s Association (BPMA) president N K Dheeraj agrees, but said the condition of police barracks is an open secret. “Least said the better,” he said. He, however, said the condition of barracks can’t be altered in a day. “It’s is a time-consuming process and new barracks are being constructed on the state police headquarters’ initiative,” he added. Around 80,000 police personnel attached to the BPMA and the Bihar Police Association (BPA) are performing their duty on streets, national highways, checkposts, public places and police stations to enforce the lockdown effectively. But those serving in different battalions of Bihar Military Police (BMP) are lucky. “We are in a far better condition compared to our colleagues in the district police,” said a BMP-5 havildar in Patna. They are served better food and live in more hygienic condition, he added. However, cops staying in the barracks in Kaimur and Madhubani districts have a different story to tell. “We got frightened after a few colleagues tested positive for Covid-19. A few of us even shifted to hotels as a precautionary measure,” said an ASI from Bhabhua. A number of policemen were shifted to other places after some of them tested positive for the deadly virus. “Those suspected to have been infected with coronavirus were kept under quarantine,” Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmad said, adding at least four policemen were found positive in Kaimur. Akhileshwar Singh, a havildar of Rohtas and posted as driver of an escort vehicle of a VIP, never forgets to wear a mask and gloves before leaving the barracks for duty. The case of constables Dinesh Kumar and Bikram Kumar is no different. They wash their uniform and take bath before entering the barracks at Dehri-on-Sone after finishing duty. The state police headquarters earlier issued directives to all SPs to allow the policemen on leave to resume duty only after thermal screening and keeping them in isolation for 14 days. “Had it not been the case, policemen in large number would have been infected,” an IPS officer said. Meanwhile, BPMA chief has urged the state government to provide Rs50 lakh insurance cover to police personnel on the pattern of doctors and health workers performing duty while risking their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-scared-of-corona-in-crowded-barracks/articleshow/75634819.cms||Ramashankar
May 9, 2020||Patna||20k students, migrants return from Punjab and other states||PATNA: Altogether 20,629 stranded migrant workers and students reached different places in Bihar from Punjab and other states by 17 Shramik special trains on Friday. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order on May 1 allowing interstate movement of stranded persons during the nationwide lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic. While trains carrying stranded migrants and students in other states had reached Bihar earlier also, the two Shramik special trains from Punjab reached Bihar for the first time on Friday. While a special train from Ludhiana reached Purnia with 1200 migrant workers, another from Jalandhar with around 1,000 migrants reached Darbhanga. East Central Railway’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said a train from Kota was the first to reach Saharsa on Friday morning, while two special trains from Ghatkesar in Telangana with 1100 migrant workers and students reached Chhapra around 9am and Katihar around 12pm. Besides, a special train from Ambala carrying around 1200 migrant workers also reached Katihar. One special train from Lingampalli in Telangana reached Bhagalpur and another from Chittor in Andhra Pradesh at Saharsa station. Similarly, one special train from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh reached Barauni and another from Nidadavole in Andhra Pradesh arrived at Darbhanga. Another train carrying around 1200 stranded persons, mostly migrant workers, from Baruch in Gujarat reached Purnea. Likewise, about 1100 migrant workers and students from Jamnagar in Gujarat reached Muzaffarpur while another special train from Rajkot brought 1150 migrant workers and students to Bhagalpur. While migrant workers and students from Kota reached Ara around 1pm, special trains from Thane in Maharashtra reached Bapudham Motihari railway station. Other special trains from Godhra in Gujarat and Hissar in Haryana reached Danapur and Muzaffarpur stations respectively. “The migrant workers and students were made to pass through mandatory thermal screening test and medical check-up by health workers on their arrival at different places in the state on Friday,” the CPRO said. Altogether 1246 students were sent to their respective destinations by 50 buses after reaching Ara Junction from Kota. Of them, 335 were from from Bhojpur, 165 from Kaimur, 193 from Buxar and 553 from Rohtas. Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha and SP Sushil Kumar were present at the station where the students were also provided food packets. Altogether 1250 migrant workers with their family members reached Chhapra from Ghatkeshar in Telangana. Among them, 723 were from Madhubani, 264 from Siwan and rest from Saran district. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen, SP Har Kishore Rai and other officials remained on their toes till the passengers were sent by buses to their respective block headquarters. All migrants were given food packets and drinking water bottles. (With inputs from Praveen in Ara and H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20k-students-migrants-return-from-punjab-and-other-states/articleshow/75633644.cms||Kumod Verma
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||125 buses to ferry over 3,600 stranded labourers to Bihar||Varanasi: After ensuring departure of as many as 1,620 migrant labourers stranded in Varanasi to their native towns in Rajasthan and Jharkhand by buses, the district administration will now send over 3,600 stranded workers to Bihar the same way on Sunday. Speaking to TOI on Saturday, DM Raj Sharma said, “We had already finalised the list of over 3,600 workers of Bihar stranded here about a week ago. However, despite continuous efforts for proper coordination with officials in Bihar, their departure has not been executed yet. The indecisiveness of the Bihar government on the issue has delayed the process.” “As the migrant workers from Bihar had begun to pose a threat to law and order, local authorities asked their counterparts in Bihar to take decision as early as possible,” he added. “After the final round of talk, it was decided to arrange buses for sending over 3,600 labourers to bordering districts of Bhabhua and Kaimur in Bihar on Sunday. UPSRTC agreed to send 125 buses for the same—90 from its Hardoi depot and 30 from its Mirzapur depot,” informed Sharma. Around 100 persons from Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand each, most of whom are students, will also be sent back in the next 2-3 days following talks with the corresponding officials of these states. There are around 800 persons from West Bengal who want to leave Varanasi. After several rounds of talks with the WB officials, it was decided to send them back soon by a train being arranged from DDU Junction. On Thursday, over 1,300 stranded people of Jharkhand and 320 of Rajasthan had been sent back by 58 buses. Meanwhile, number of people who wanted to go back to their native places by personal vehicles, crossed the mark of 2000 on Saturday evening, said the DM. They all had procured e-passes after filling their details on 27 point forms and undergoing health check-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/125-buses-to-ferry-over-3600-stranded-labourers-to-bihar/articleshow/75650987.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Business||White goods retailers in state seek nod to restart operations||Chennai: Ten white goods retailers have written to the TN chief minister Edappadi Palaniswamy seeking his intervention to allow restart of operations in districts where they have been asked to shut down. Major retail chains including Viveks, Shahs, Girias, Vasanth and Co are among the signatories of the letter, which fears job losses might start impacting one lakh of families, besides a steep drop in direct and indirect tax revenues to the state.“It has already been 45 days since we’ve closed our operations. We request you to allow our operations in individual districts. Further delay will result in loss of jobs to the tune of 30%-40% where around 10,000 families (directly impacted) will lose their livelihood. There are lakhs of families depending on this industry in manufacturing, logistics, service engineers and advertising agencies, who will also lose their livelihood,” said the letter. Through the letter, the retailers estimate the Tamil Nadu consumer electronics and home appliance market at nearly Rs 7,500 crore a year. Stressing upon the revenue, GST contribution and the number of jobs created in the state, the retailers add that collectively, the industry employs around 25,000 front line salesmen and approximately 1,500 backend employees. The industry contribution to GST revenues is Rs 1,875 crore a year and 40% of this contributes in the month of March, April and May, the letter further said. “We have a lot of challenges like rent, salary and government bills aggregating to Rs 300 crore. We request you to allow our operations in individual districts where we have been asked to shut down and we assure you that we will follow the Government rules and regulations for Covid-19,” the contents said. The retailers further added that they operate on wafer-thin margins and the costs such as government bills, rent etc are adding to their burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/white-goods-retailers-in-state-seek-nod-to-restart-operations/articleshow/75635493.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||17 tourists from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu stranded in Rohtas||PATNA: Having covered a distance of over 2,300km to reach Bihar from Tamil Nadu to get himself relaxed after his father’s sudden death, Suresh Perumal (30), a resident of Coimbatore, has been stranded in Rohtas district since March due to the lockdown. He does not know where to go for help. Similarly, 16 other tourists from Maharashtra are also stranded at Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas district. They are being provided food and accommodation by Gospel Echoing Missionary Society (GEMS), a local charity organisation, since March 22. Four of them are senior citizens and they are anxious about their families back home in Maharashtra, one of the worst Covid-19-affected states in the country. D G Gnanamuthu (65), a native of Bhandup, a Mumbai suburb, said, “My daughter is pregnant. She is in dire need of my help at this juncture. However, I am miles away from home and stranded at Dehri-on-Sone. There is no money left with me now and the lockdown is getting extended.” Gynanamuthu and 15 others had visited Patna, Bodh Gaya and several other tourist sites in the state. The lockdown was announced by PM Narendra Modi when they were in Rohtas. “We visited the historical Sher Shah tomb at Sasaram and also a few other places of historical importance in Bihar. Our next trip was Varanasi from where we were supposed to leave for our native state,” Gnanamuthu said. Those accompanying Gnanamuthu are from Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and Bandu (Pune) in Maharashtra. Most of these tourists had come to Bihar for the first time. “We are now getting bored. Life has virtually come to a standstill due to the extended lockdown,” said Daniel Devapriyam (70), another tourist. Perumal, who does real estate business in Coimbatore, said his mother and wife were alone in Tamil Nadu and eagerly waiting for his safe return. “We informed the local authorities and sought their help to reach home. However, they expressed their helplessness,” Perumal said. Victor Alfred, a senior GEMS functionary, said they were providing food and shelter to all the 17 tourists who reached their office at Sikaria under Indrapuri police station in Rohtas district on March 22. “Had the GEMS not come forward to provide them accommodation and food free of cost for such a long period, these tourists would have landed in deep trouble,” he added. Sub-divisional officer of Dehri Lal Jyoti Nath Sahdeo refused to comment on the matter. However, SHO of Indrapuri police outpost Nihora Ram said a list of 17 tourists from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu was submitted to the police station recently. “What can we do? Police’s role on such matters is limited,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-tourists-from-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-stranded-in-rohtas/articleshow/75633618.cms||Ramashankar
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only those who test negative for Covid-19 will board planes for Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even as the state government embarks on an exercise to bring back Gujaratis who are stranded in different countries because of the Covid-19 pandemic, only those persons who have a Covid-negative certificate will be allowed to embark planes that are headed for Gujarat. Beginning Saturday, six flights are expected to reach Ahmedabad, carrying about 1,000 Gujaratis from different destinations across the globe. In another significant decision, the state government has decided not to quarantine any of the persons who return by flights, in Ahmedabad or Surat. All the international passengers will have to go through a mandatory 14-day quarantine before they are allowed to go to their homes. State government officials told TOI that the ministry of external affairs will decide on whom to bring back to Gujarat. “This is not a mass evacuation. Only those persons who have tested negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to embark on planes that are bound for Gujarat. Even those who are Covid-negative but are displaying any symptoms, will not be allowed,” said government sources. The airlines ferrying back Gujaratis from various locations have also been asked to provide an undertaking that all passengers are Covid-negative, sources said. Sources in the government added, “Several places have been finalised where the international passengers will be kept under quarantine for 14 days. It has been decided not to keep them in Ahmedabad and Surat. Since the matter is sensitive, the locations are not being disclosed.” When asked if the government has finalised locations that will be paid and free, officials said that the state government is yet to take a decision on which facilities will be paid and which will be free. The office of the district development officer has been entrusted with the task of screening of passengers who are returning from different locations. Passengers will be examined by a team of medical personnel on arrival at the airport, before being taken for the 14-day quarantine period. “Over 1,000 passengers are expected to arrive at Ahmedabad over the next five or six days,” district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-those-who-test-negative-for-covid-19-will-board-planes-for-gujarat/articleshow/75636108.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
May 9, 2020||Patna||Monitor kitchens at quarantine centres: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to increase the number of kitchens proportionate to people staying at each quarantine centre so that they could get quality meals on time. The CM at a review meeting also asked the disaster management department (DMD) to regularly monitor the kitchens and foods prepared at the quarantine centres. Reiterating the need of sufficient toilets and washrooms at each quarantine centre, Nitish said a senior official should regularly visit such centres. He said the district administration should ensure all necessary arrangements at the quarantine centres as per the DMD’s standard operating procedure (SOP). Nitish asked the health department officials to expedite the work of random testing along with the ongoing contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. “Testing of people in the red zones should be done on a priority basis,” he said and asked the officials to ensure availability of sufficient testing kits in all districts. Nitish further asked the officials to make necessary arrangements for testing and quarantine of people who would return from other countries. “Maintain proper coordination with the ministry of foreign affairs and make arrangements as per the protocol,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monitor-kitchens-at-quarantine-centres-nitish/articleshow/75634873.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||Doctor among 18 quarantined after BMP man tests positive||PATNA: Altogether 18 people, including a doctor and 17 BMP personnel, have been quarantined at the Patliputra Sports Complex facility after one of their retired colleagues turned out to be Covid-19 positive on Thursday evening. The BMP havildar who, had retired on March 31 but could not return home due to the lockdown, was living in the barracks inside the headquarters of the 14th battalion of BMP located near Patna airport. The headquarters of two other battalions, 5th and 10th, are also in the same campus, which has now been declared a containment zone. At least 600-700 BMP personnel from all three battalions are estimated to be living inside the campus. This is the fourth case of Covid-19 in the state police forces and first in the BMP so far. Patna deputy DC Richie Pandey, who is monitoring the quarantine procedure, told TOI that 17 personnel who shared the barracks with the retired havildar were quarantined on Thursday night itself. “The havildar had met a doctor for check-up at the battalion command hospital. He has also been sent to the Patliputra sports complex quarantine facility,” he said, adding, “Samples of all 18 people have been collected and their results were awaited.” Pandey further said, “The havildar has claimed that he had not gone outside or met anybody from outside the barracks. Under this situation, things would become clear only after test results of all 18 people arrive.” State police ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the retired havildar was native of Gumla in Jharkhand had to stay inside the barrack due to the lockdown. “He has tuberculosis as well as asthma. He had gone to AIIMS-Patna for check-up on Wednesday due to illness when he was tested and turned out to be Covid-19 positive,” the ADG said. ADG said core areas of BMP-14 premises were sanitized on Friday. “However, as precautionary measure, department along with help of municipal corporation is also getting sanitized all vehicles and offices of BMP-5 and BMP-10 too along with those of BMP-14,” he added. PMC commissioner Himanshu Rai said he had instructed executive officer of new capital circle to get the premises along with neighbouring public areas sanitized using mixture of sodium hypochlorite solution. “Sanitization work would continue even on Saturday if it doesn’t get completed on Friday,” he said. Covid-19 nodal officer Ragini Mishra said the area falling within three kilometres radius of the BMP barrack would a containment zone now. “None would be allowed to leave or enter. Police personnel would have to remain quarantined for 14 days. Door to door survey would be made,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctor-among-18-quarantined-after-bmp-man-tests-positive/articleshow/75634796.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 9, 2020||Business||SBI ups new home loan credit spread on rising risks||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) has increased the spread on home loans and loans against and property over its repo-linked benchmark rate by 20 to 30 basis points (100 bps = 1 percentage point). As a result, while interest rates on older repo-linked loans have declined by 75 bps, in line with RBI’s rate cut in March, the same is not the case for new borrowers. SBI home loans, however, continue to be the cheapest in the market. Following the RBI’s 75 bps repo rate cut on March 27, SBI’s external benchmark-linked lending rate (EBR) came down to 7.05%. According to the bank’s website, the spread on various home loan products and loan against property has been increased by 30 bps. A senior official confirmed that the bank has decided to increase the spread in line with the increase in credit risk in the market following the Covid-19 crisis. For home loans of up to Rs 75 lakh, SBI has increased the spread by 20 bps. For loans up to Rs 30 lakh, the effective rate, which is EBR plus spread, now stands at 7.4% from 7.2%. The effective rate for home loans above Rs 30 lakh and up to Rs 75 lakh stands at 7.65% following a 20 bps increase in spread. Similarly for home loans above Rs 75 lakh, the rate stands at 7.75% as against what would have been 7.55% had the 75 bps cut been fully passed on. The spread on Maxgain home loans — which is in the form of an overdraft — has been increased by 30 bps. The effective rate for Maxgain home loans up to Rs 30 lakh works out to 7.75%. Sources said that increasing the spread also gives the bank the headroom to manage volatility in interest rates. “If the RBI for any reason decides to hike repo rate sharply in future, the consequent increase in interest rate might make the existing EMI inadequate to pay interest and principal, which could lead to negative amortisation or a situation where the loan outstanding increases with time,” said a bank official. He added that the increase in spread gives the bank headroom to manage rates during times of volatility. Bankers said that as long as the lockdown continues, the change in rate does not have much meaning as there are hardly any real estate transactions taking place. Given the risk aversion, there could be sops in future to push home loans. Soon after the lockdown commenced, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh had suggested that state governments could waive stamp duty for a couple of months during the festive season to revive demand. Other suggestions have included providing short-term tax breaks once the moratorium is lifted. The effective rate for loan against property up to Rs 1 crore has been raised to 9.20% as against 8.9% as on April 1, 2020. For loans above Rs 1 crore and up to 2 crore, the effective rate stands at 9.70% as against 9.40% earlier. Despite the increase in spread, other lenders are more expensive than SBI. PNB Housing Finance has reduced its retail lending rates — including individual home loan and loan against property — by 15bps with effect from May 9. The company offers home loans at 8.9% even after the rate cut. HDFC’s home loans start at 7.85%. ICICI Bank’s home loan rates range from 7.7% to 8.35%. Bankers say that interest rates have not bottomed out given the drop in yields on 10-year government bonds to below 5.8%. Union Bank of India on Friday, reduced its marginal cost of funds- based lending rate (MCLR) in the range of 5-15bps across all tenors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-ups-new-home-loan-credit-spread-on-rising-risks/articleshow/75636451.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Muhana mandi sales drop after seller tests Covid-19 +ve||JAIPUR: Business in Muhana mandi here has gone down by 35% in the last two days after a papaya seller tested positive on Wednesday. Apart from the papaya seller at the mandi, many vegetable sellers in the city also tested positive for coronavirus creating a fear among people which has affected the sale of vegetables. Karan Singh Jodha, an official at Muhana mandi, said, maintaining social distancing at the vegetable market is a herculean task. “Business has gone down by 35% to 40% due to the fear of coronavirus. We are, however, trying to maintain social distancing. Earlier, a vegetable seller was allotted three wooden platforms to sell his product. Now, to increase the distancing between the sellers, we have allotted them six platforms. Masks and sanitisers are regularly being provided to them,” Jodha said. During the lockdown, all businesses have been shut in the city which has increased unemployment rate. Selling vegetables was seen as a silver lining in the time of crisis as this was one of the few professions which were allowed to function. Hundreds of street vendors and people from different professions started selling vegetables that increased crowd at the mandi. Rahul Tanvar, president of Muhana Mandi Association, said, “The rise in unemployment increased crowd in the mandi which made social distancing difficult. As all the eateries and restaurants are closed, the sale is down, but the harvest season is at its peak. Due to low demand and fear in purchasing vegetables, farm produce is sold at half rate. This year has been really bad for both farmers and businessmen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muhana-mandi-sales-drop-after-seller-tests-ve/articleshow/75637008.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||FCI: Bihar gets 5 lakh MT of foodgrains under PMGKAY||PATNA: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has supplied around 5.95 lakh metric tonne (MT) of additional foodgrains to Bihar till Thursday under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) to provide help to people concerned during three months, including the lockdown period owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The state would also get 10.51 lakh MT of foodgrains under its quota under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). An FCI communique said the total allotment to the state for distribution through the public distribution system (PDS) shops among the vulnerable sections of the society comprising the priority households (PPHs) for three months from April to June is 12.96 lakh MT of foodgrains under PMGKAY. Bihar region FCI general manager Sandip Kumar Pandey said the allotment of 12.96 lakh MT of foodgrains to Bihar to help its 8.64 crore beneficiaries has been valued at Rs5,057 crore. It include the 5.95 lakh MT of foodgrains worth Rs2,320 crore. A Press Information Bureau (PIB) statement said the Centre has also ensured that each PHH gets double the usual allocation during the three months — 5kg of rice under PMGKAY and the usual quota of 5kg under NFSA. “No shortfall of foodgrains to be supplied under PMGKAY will be allowed to happen in Bihar,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fci-bihar-gets-5-lakh-mt-of-foodgrains-under-pmgkay/articleshow/75634945.cms||Abhay Singh
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Locals clash with cops in Shahpur||AHMEDABAD: A clash broke out in the communally sensitive Shahpur area of the city on Friday evening when a team of cops was implementing the lockdown. A police inspector suffered injuries, following which five rounds of tear gas shells were lobbed to disperse the crowd, said an official.Locals said that four residents have also suffered injuries in the retaliation by police and paramilitary forces. The disturbance occurred when inspector R K Amin of Shahpur police and his team were patrolling near Shapur Adda in the locality and was instructing people to remain inside their houses, said deputy commissioner of police, zone-2, Dharmendra Sharma. Some people did not obey the inspector’s order. The inspector then told his colleagues to register an FIR over the violation of the lockdown notification against some persons who were sitting outside their houses, Sharma said. Meanwhile, a few of those persons started throwing stones at the cops and suddenly other people from the locality began pelting stones too, said Sharma. Sharma said that stones were pelted from every nook and corner and police will also add the charges of criminal conspiracy against the accused persons as they already had stones handy. Shahpur police inspector suffered injuries on his head so the intention of the accused was mala fide, he said. On asked about a person being beaten with sticks by cops — the video of the incident has gone viral — Sharma said that he was not aware of that. As the violence broke out, paramilitary forces such as the BSF and the RAF which are already deployed in the area, along with local police and city crime branch officials began combing the area to make arrests. Police officials said that 15 persons have been arrested so far and combing operation is on. Sharma said that an FIR was being drafted against the accused persons. Another video of the area which went viral after the incident showed cops damaging vehicles. When the police station officer of Shahpur was contacted, he — identifying himself as Govindbhai — denied any violence in the jurisdiction of Shahpur police station. He said that there was peace in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/locals-clash-with-cops-in-shahpur/articleshow/75636089.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Flight for British expats to depart on May 13||AHMEDABAD: The British high commission has arranged for yet another flight to take British expats who are stuck in Ahmedabad back to London. A special flight has been arranged, which will depart from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on May 13 and will take passengers to Heathrow airport in London, UK.Last month as well, at least seven flights to ferry British nationals from Ahmedabad to the UK were arranged wherein more than 5,000 passengers were flown. According to the British high commission, the UK has announced five further flights to bring stranded British travellers home from India; four of which will depart from Amritsar. Once these flights are completed, over 16,500 travellers will have been brought back from India on 64 special flights chartered by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/flight-for-british-expats-to-depart-on-may-13/articleshow/75636127.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 11 held for violating lockdown||AHMEDADBAD: Narol police on Friday arrested 11 people for violating the section 144 which prohibits the gathering of more than four people at one place and also for the violation of the lock-down order. The cops said they spotted a group of people standing near a society in Narol. However, upon seeing the cops’ vehicle, the people started running inside the society. “We chased the group and arrested eleven of them,” said an official from Narol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-held-for-violating-lock-down/articleshow/75636152.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bootlegger caught after viral video expose||AHMEDABAD: A video of a bootlegger selling country liquor from a scooter had gone viral amid the lockdown. Cops were quick to act. DCP Zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar, said the scooter was traced by its registration number seen in the video, and the bootlegger Popsing Parihar of Chamanpura was arrested on Thursday. “Another person, Praveen Katheriya alias Choti, also from Chamanpura is on the run. We have seized the scooter and 15 litres of country liquor from the accused,” said inspector D J Chudasama of Meghaninagar police station. According to sources, a worker of a political party had submitted an application of complaint about bootlegging in the area and had drawn attention to the video which had gone viral on social media. The political worker had also alleged there was a nexus between Meghanninagar police and the bootlegger. Police have rubbished the allegations and said that a few days earlier Meghaninagar police had registered a complaint against the political worker for creating hindrance in police work, and that is the reason for him making such allegations. Badgujar said that after receiving the application he had ordered an inquiry. “On Thursday, we traced the scooter and arrested Parihar with the country liquor. We have registered a case under prohibition act against Parihar. We are hunting for his accomplice,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bootlegger-caught-after-viral-video-expose/articleshow/75636207.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Wanted criminal arrested in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur rural police on Friday arrested a criminal wanted for looting ATMs. The accused was identified as Bhawani Shanker (28) who had been on the run since 2018 and carried a reward on his head. “The accused had multiple cases against him for looting ATMs and we had been trying to nab him for a while now. He was active not just in Jaipur but also in other districts including Jodhpur,” said Shankar Dutt Sharma, SP, Jaipur Rural. “His modus operandi was to break open the ATMs and take the money out. He is from Nagaur but was active across the state. We are trying to get the details of the money and how it was spent,” Sharma added. Cops had got information that the accused was seen in Kaladera police station area following which a team was constituted to nab him. “Our team had been making efforts for the last two years to catch Bhawani Shanker. When we received confirmed report that he was seen in Kaladera, we immediately dispatched the cops to trace him. The accused has confessed to looting ATMs. We are questioning him further to find the details of the looted cash as well as his other accomplices,” added the official. Bhawani has cases registered against him at Jobner, Narena and Jodhpur dating from 2015. “This is a major success for us. Bhawani was a wanted criminal and we had been trying to arrest him for a while now. His interrogation will also lead us to other criminals as they all have a network. He was active across the state and undoubtedly more persons might have been involved with him,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wanted-criminal-arrested-in-jaipur/articleshow/75637016.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Restart industries: TUs||Coimbatore: Labour unions on Friday urged the state government to allow micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the city to restart operations. Representatives of INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, SDTU, LPF, MLF, AICCTU and Dr Ambedkar National Cotton Mill Association submitted a petition to collector K Rajamani in this regard. “Most of the MSMEs are badly hit due to the lockdown. While the state has granted permission to resume industrial activities in rural areas, those in corporation limits are not allowed to function. While the industrialists had assured to function with minimal workforce and ensure social distancing, the government has not allowed them to do so. When Tasmac outlets are safe for the public, why not the industries?” asked CITU district secretary S Krishnamoorthy. Explaining that most of the industries are interdependent and some have been doing job orders for big industries, he said the government should take immediate steps to reopen them. “Even though the central government has directed the companies to pay full salary to employees even for the non-working days during the lockdown period, none of the companies have followed it. Even reputed companies paid only half the salary. The government should take steps to ensure that the companies follow the government direction strictly.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restart-industries-tus/articleshow/75637022.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Decide on liquor shop owners’ demand before May 12: HC||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed Maharashtra government and Nagpur collector to decide on the representation to be made by liquor shop owners on reopening their establishments before May 12. While allowing the petitioner’s counsel Shyam Dewani to withdraw the case, Justice Rohit Deo asked him to file the representation with the respondents within 24 hours. Maharashtra Wine Merchants Association had moved the plea on behalf of liquor shop owners praying for permission to sell their products having limited shelf life through online home delivery. The petitioner contended that Nagpur collector’s decision on continuing restrictions on opening of liquor shops in rural areas was at variance with his counterparts in other districts of the state like Mumbai and Pune. Dewani contended that the state excise commissioner has permitted opening of liquor shops, subject to strict enforcement of social distancing. He also sought liberty to move an appropriate representation before the government and collector. According to him, the petitioner would submit its representation within 24 hours and the respondents should decide on it as expeditiously as possible, otherwise very purpose of approaching them is frustrated. “The petitioner is permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty as prayed. It’s made clear that no submission is advanced on the merits of issues involved,” Justice Deo said, while disposing of the plea and granting liberty to the petitioner to approach the court if the grievance is not redressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decide-on-liquor-shop-owners-demand-before-may-12-hc/articleshow/75637740.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Fresh ideas: Ventilation, clean AC at offices may keep coronavirus away||NEW DELHI: With the ongoing pandemic, private offices are reluctant to use central air-conditioning as circulation of stale air may increase the risk of spreading the novel coronavirus. Experts feel that improving ventilation in buildings has become more important with the gradual increase in the number of office-goers after the lockdown. The design of buildings may also need to be changed. Offices may have to adapt fast for improving thermal comfort by improving insulation and allowing more fresh air in ACs. Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers has come up with guidelines to be followed in offices, homes and healthcare facilities to provide adequate ventilation. This includes maintaining humidity between 40% and 60%, high rate of air change, and higher temperature than normal. Barun Aggarwal, CEO at BreatheEasy and a member of the committee that formed the guidelines, said working without air-conditioning is no long-term solution and the primary focus should be on improving ventilation. “Even central ACs allow intake of fresh air. Most offices avoid it as it increases the cost of running. In the current circumstances, the need for fresh air is most important,” said Aggarwal, adding ACs need to run at a temperature of 24-27 degrees to create a balance with the fresh air. Offices will also need to keep disinfecting the vents daily. For newer buildings, Aggarwal suggested ventilation for each room and looking at technologies like H-13 certified filters, which can process particles up to 0.003 microns. Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), which carried out an analysis for healthy living, said trapping of stale air would increase the risk of the virus indoors. This means the focus should be on improved ventilation as well as thermal comfort. “There is a need to design buildings for thermal comfort and minimise air-conditioned hours. A total of 34% projects under PMAY-U are being delivered by the private sector. However, the entire focus is on speed and ease of construction and material choices. It is now necessary to link subsidies and incentives with ensuring quality and livability of the houses,” said CSE. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, CSE executive director (research and advocacy), said companies could look at passive design interventions and retrofits as options to improve the shading, insulation and ventilation. “The overall heat load on a building needs to reduce and options like green rooftops and solar panels can be put into place. Vertical gardens can also reduce the heat levels,” she added. The average heat index in India is increasing at the rate of 0.56°C per decade and 0.32°C per decade during summer, data shows. Dr Radha Goyal, deputy director, Indian Pollution Control Association, told TOI that air-conditioners could function normally, but the intake of fresh air was crucial, alongside regularly disinfecting the vents and ducts. “The fresh air intake should not be less than 3 cubic metres per hour per person. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation can be used in the ducts and air handling units,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-ideas-ventilation-clean-ac-at-offices-may-keep-corona-away/articleshow/75637036.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Markets in city to now open from 7am to 2pm||VARANASI: A new guideline has been issued by the district administration for running shops and other commercial activities in the district from May 10. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the decision has been taken for effective implementation of lockdown norms and social distancing. As per the new guideline, all commercial activities would be allowed from 7am to 2pm. Earlier, the time allotted to markets was from 10am to 5pm. In the limit of Varanasi municipal corporation, the shops of all essential commodities including ration, medicines, milk products, vegetables, general stores, cooking gas, CNG, fruits, fodder and farming goods will remain open from 7am to 2pm. While the shops of mobile phones, phone repairing, electricals, sanitary hardware and plumbing, building material, automobile and vehicle repairing, computer hardware, paper printing with maximum five employees, and books and stationery will be allowed to open only on Thursday and Friday during the same period. The same time allotment for markets would also be applicable in rural areas along with other services including transport, logistics, courier, warehouse, cold storage, and food processing units. The liquor shops and model wine shops in both urban and rural areas will remain operational from 10am to 7pm, while home delivery of essential goods would be allowed only till 5pm. The wholesale markets of vegetables, grains and medicines would remain open from 8am to 2pm. Private and government hospitals, pathology labs, and pharmacy will be allowed to function round-the-clock. The newspaper distribution and media offices have been exempted from the restriction. Banks, ATMs, insurance companies and government offices would function as per their schedule on working days only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/markets-in-city-to-now-open-from-7am-to-2pm/articleshow/75634573.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Wanted criminal arrested in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur rural police on Friday arrested a criminal wanted for looting ATMs. The accused was identified as Bhawani Shanker (28) who had been on the run since 2018 and carried a reward on his head. “The accused had multiple cases against him for looting ATMs and we had been trying to nab him for a while now. He was active not just in Jaipur but also in other districts including Jodhpur,” said Shankar Dutt Sharma, SP, Jaipur Rural. “His modus operandi was to break open the ATMs and take the money out. He is from Nagaur but was active across the state. We are trying to get the details of the money and how it was spent,” Sharma added. Cops had got information that the accused was seen in Kaladera police station area following which a team was constituted to nab him. “Our team had been making efforts for the last two years to catch Bhawani Shanker. When we received confirmed report that he was seen in Kaladera, we immediately dispatched the cops to trace him. The accused has confessed to looting ATMs. We are questioning him further to find the details of the looted cash as well as his other accomplices,” added the official. Bhawani has cases registered against him at Jobner, Narena and Jodhpur dating from 2015. “This is a major success for us. Bhawani was a wanted criminal and we had been trying to arrest him for a while now. His interrogation will also lead us to other criminals as they all have a network. He was active across the state and undoubtedly more persons might have been involved with him,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/wanted-criminal-arrested-in-jaipur/articleshow/75641350.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid mimics Kawasaki in some kids, say doctors||CHENNAI: Ten days ago, doctors at the Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital, a designated Covid-19 paediatric hospital, thought an eight-year-old patient had Kawasaki disease - an illness that causes inflammation in blood vessels throughout the body. The boy, however, test Covid-19 positive later and was discharged on Friday after a week’s treatment. Doctors at the hospital said they tested the boy, a resident of East Tambaram, for Covid-19 only because he had respiratory infection. "It is mandatory for all hospitals to test patients admitted with severe acute respiratory infection. So we sent his samples from the ICU but did not strongly suspect Covid-19," said hospital medical director Dr S Balasubramanian. The boy had fever spike for nearly a week and was treated at another private hospital before he developed severe chest congestion. "Doctors there suspected Covid-19 but test results then were negative. When he came to us, he had red eyes, breathing difficulty, skin rashes, red lips and tongue and low blood pressure," said hospital’s chief intensivist Dr Balaramachandran. He was moved to an isolation room in the ICU and given high frequency oxygen along with IV fluids. "It looked like a clear case of Kawasaki. Some doctors said it could be toxic shock syndrome. But emerging literature from the west indicated that this could be Covid-19 as well," he said. A lot about the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is still under research. "There are different symptoms it is presenting itself with. Studies say it could be triggering Kawasaki-like inflammatory responses in some children," a senior paediatrician said. Even as Covid-19 results were awaited, doctors treated the boy for Kawasaki. "They said there was no treatment for Covid-19 but did not want to ignore their suspicion that it could be Kawasaki. They wanted to give him medicines that protect his heart. We agreed," said the boy’s father. He was also given antibiotics, intravenous immunoglobulin and low dose aspirin to prevent clots. After the fever failed to subside, he was given Tocilizumab, used to treat rheumatological fever. "He settled well. He was tested negative twice in the last two days," said Dr Balasubramanian. His parents and younger sibling are negative but have been advised to stay in quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-mimics-kawasaki-in-some-kids-say-docs/articleshow/75637031.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan government to decide on pending board exams||AJMER: The state government will take the final call on conducting the remaining exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) for classes 10 and 12. These exams were cancelled on March 20 before the lockdown. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday held a video conference with the board officials and discussed every aspect of conducting the remaining board exams. There are about 20 lakh students registered this year for RBSE board examinations. Sources said chief minister Gehlot asked about the preparation to conduct remaining board examinations with the strict norms of social distancing. He took the view of technical, higher education, secondary education and RBSE officials. The major problem is to maintain the strict norms of social distancing at examination centres. “We had orders from the state government last week to make preparation for conducting exams in the last days of May,” said an official source. The second major problem with the board is the migration of students participating in the board because large number of labourers migrated to different states with their families because of the lockdown and if the board declares the examination, then they will have to rush to their examination centres. The third problem that the board will face is related to the number of examination centres in the state as the board will reduce the number of students to 50% at one exam centre and therefore to accommodate other students they will have to identify new centres and make arrangements. Another aspect which was discussed was to cancel the remaining examination of class 10 and to conduct class 12 board examination like CBSE. Board officials said they will work according to the directions of the state government. Chairman of the board Dr Dharmapal Jalori said students should prepare for the examinations.  The chief minister has discussed every aspect to conduct the remaining board examination and whatever direction the government will give the board is ready to implement it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-govt-to-decide-on-pending-board-exams/articleshow/75641396.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government to decide on pending board exams||AJMER: The state government will take the final call on conducting the remaining exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) for classes 10 and 12. These exams were cancelled on March 20 before the lockdown. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday held a video conference with the board officials and discussed every aspect of conducting the remaining board exams. There are about 20 lakh students registered this year for RBSE board examinations. Sources said chief minister Gehlot asked about the preparation to conduct remaining board examinations with the strict norms of social distancing. He took the view of technical, higher education, secondary education and RBSE officials. The major problem is to maintain the strict norms of social distancing at examination centres. “We had orders from the state government last week to make preparation for conducting exams in the last days of May,” said an official source. The second major problem with the board is the migration of students participating in the board because large number of labourers migrated to different states with their families because of the lockdown and if the board declares the examination, then they will have to rush to their examination centres. The third problem that the board will face is related to the number of examination centres in the state as the board will reduce the number of students to 50% at one exam centre and therefore to accommodate other students they will have to identify new centres and make arrangements. Another aspect which was discussed was to cancel the remaining examination of class 10 and to conduct class 12 board examination like CBSE. Board officials said they will work according to the directions of the state government. Chairman of the board Dr Dharmapal Jalori said students should prepare for the examinations.  The chief minister has discussed every aspect to conduct the remaining board examination and whatever direction the government will give the board is ready to implement it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-to-decide-on-pending-board-exams/articleshow/75637030.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Yet another locust attack in Banaskantha||Palanpur: Farmers in Vav taluka in Banaskantha district are facing another locust attack from neighbouring state of Rajasthan.A swarm of locust has descended over Mithavi Charan village of Vav on Friday. “The locusts will settle of the ground after dark. This is when we will spray insecticide and destroy it. We cannot do that when the insects are in air,” said K L Meena, assistant director agriculture department, Banaskantha, while on his way to the village.“Our staff is fully equipped and have sufficient means to control the swarm before it can go further. We were cautioned by the union and Rajasthan government about the locust attack some week back,” he added. Deputy director agriculture in Banaskantha, P K Patel said that the swarm is spread over 20 hectare of land and efforts were on to control it. “The locust originated from Jaisalmer in Rajasthan,” he added. A similar locust attack in January had destroyed rabi crop in Mavsari Radhanaseda and Kundaliya villages. According to P D Gadhvi, sarpanch of Mithavi Charn, the locust invasion has added to the woes of farmers yet again. Earlier, the farmers of Banaskantha faced unseasonal rains which was followed by locust attack, which had impacted the rabi cop. The state government had also given compensation to farmers affected by the locust attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/yet-another-locust-attack-in-banaskantha/articleshow/75636169.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot to private schools: Don’t expel students for fee default||JAIPUR: If the parents of some students are unable to deposit the school fees due to poor financial condition, the private schools will not be able to expel them, said chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday. The state government would revoke the school’s recognition if it violates the direction. Gehlot has directed the education department to examine ways by which private schools could give relief to the students in fees and other charges without adversely affecting their functioning. The chief minister reviewed issues related to school, higher and technical education through video conferencing at his residence on Friday. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasara, higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati and senior officials attended the meeting. He said the remaining RBSE board examinations of classes X and XII will be suspended for the time being. Later, a decision will be taken as per CBSE directives so that uniformity is maintained in both the board exams and the students’ interests are not hurt. Similarly, examinations in higher and technical education institutes would be conducted only after the situation normalises. Gehlot has directed the education department to ensure proper arrangements for mid-day meal to children during summer break. Since due to lockdown, it is not possible to provide cooked food to children, so dry ration material will be provided to their parents in a transparent manner. Gehlot directed the departments to re-allocate the districts in the clerical grade II recruitment examination-2018 afresh. All the departments should provide the list of selected candidates according to their requirement on merit basis. After that, the department concerned will allot the district to them on the basis of merit and counseling. He instructed the chief secretary to ensure this system for future recruitment. The chief minister also directed to increase the income limit of parents under RTE from one lakh rupees to two-and-a-half lakh rupees per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-to-pvt-schools-dont-expel-students-for-fee-default/articleshow/75637021.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Vishwanath opposes online classes||Mysuru: Former education minister and BJP leader AH Vishwanath on Friday disapproved of the plan to conduct online classes for primary and high school students. He said the decision will prove counterproductive as it will impact the learning abilities of students. Vishwanath said only 23% people have smartphones and if classes are conducted online, students in villages will be affected. He accused officials of misleading education minister Suresh Kumar on his plan to reduce the syllabus. Vishwanath said the education minister is in a hurry to reopen schools. “We are in the middle of summer vacation and there is still time to take a call on that. Before taking any decision, the minister should consult the students, parents and experts and not restrict himself to the bureaucrats,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vishwanath-opposes-online-classes/articleshow/75624275.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Hindu Munnani cadre assault DMK man, son||Coimbatore: Three Hindu Munnani (HM) cadre were arrested by the city police on Friday for assaulting a DMK functionary and his son. The arrested were identified as Karthik, 25, Dineshkumar, 25, and Ajithkumar, 19, all residents of Selvapuram. M Santhoshkumar, 21, of Selvapuram, who was also involved in the case, is absconding. They were booked under sections 294 (b), 323 and 506 (i) of the Indian Penal Code. The arrested persons were produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. The trio was lodged at the sub-jail at Avinashi. Mathiyazhagan, 56, DMK secretary of ward no 77 and a resident of NSK Street at Selvapuram, and his son M Manojkumar, 30, were assaulted by four HM cadres at their residence on Thursday evening. Mathiyazhagan said on behalf of DMK, he was distributing relief material (grocery kit) along with his son to the residents of ward number 77. The beneficiaries were selected as per the details provided in DMK’s helpline set up under the ‘Ondrinaivom Vaa’ initiative. “We distributed relief material to people who contacted our party’s helpline. On Thursday, we distributed relief material to 30 people, mostly Muslims. Meanwhile, Hindu Munnani cadres entered my house and attacked me and my son. We provide relief material to those who approach DMK helpline. We don’t provide relief material based on any religion,” Mathiyazhagan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-munnani-cadre-assault-dmk-man-son/articleshow/75637043.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||34 child labourers rescued||Rajkot: Four persons including two factory owners were booked after 34 child labourers were rescued from two factories in Jetpur of Rajkot district on Thursday evening. Police raided Vaibhav Finishing and Siyaram Textile after they received a tip-off that child labourers were employed there. “We rescued 17 child labourers from Vaibhav Finishing and arrested the labour contractor Santosh Girjaram. In Siyaram Textile too, 17 child labourers were rescued and contractor Balistar Rajbhar arrested,” said Satish Parekh, inspector with Rajkot CID crime. “We have booked Vaibhav Finishing owner Mansukh Bhuva and Siyaram Textile owner Ketan Kunjalia,” added Parekh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/34-child-labourers-rescued/articleshow/75636197.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Mother, sister kill woman for extramarital relations||VARANASI: A 30-year-old woman was murdered allegedly by her mother and younger sister on Thursday night as the latter were infuriated over the former’s extramarital affair with a local man in Ahraula area of Azamgarh district. The woman was married to a resident of Bilariganj area, who lived and worked in the Gulf. The couple had two kids. According to reports, the woman lived with her mother. Over time, she developed a relationship with a local man, but this was strongly opposed by her mother and younger sister. Following an altercation over the issue, the mother and sister attacked the woman with a sharp-edged weapon. Soon after, the woman succumbed to her injuries. The news spread like wildfire in the village on Friday morning, and local residents informed the police. Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh said, “We have taken both the accused, along with the lover of the younger sister, under custody. Investigation is underway. The body was sent for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mother-sis-kill-woman-for-extramarital-relations/articleshow/75634602.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Man kills brother in Karnataka over board game dispute||CHIKKAMAGALURU: A 26-year-old man allegedly killed his brother in Beeranahalli, Tarikere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district over a board game dispute. The accused has been identified as Kiran and his brother, the victim 29-year-old Arun, said police. According to police, the duo were playing a board game on Thursday and they had placed a bet of Rs 500. After Arun won the game, he asked for the money and Kiran refused to yield, which lead to an argument. In a fit of rage, an intoxicated Kiran hit his brother and when the latter fell unconscious and dragged him on to the road. Arun was immediately rushed to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. However, he died on Thursday night, said police. A case was registered at the Lakkavalli Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-kills-brother-over-board-game-dispute/articleshow/75633596.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Distribute grants to gaushalas at the earliest, says Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed the animal husbandry department to distribute Rs 275-crore grant sanctioned recently to gaushalas. Gehlot, who gave the direction at a review meeting of the animal husbandry department, said dairy and animal husbandry is the foundation of state’s economy and the major source of income for farmers. The chief minister said dairy marketing federations had to strengthen its marketing and explore options to increase the income of dairy farmers. He directed officials concerned to sanction more work under NREGA to engage labourers, farmers, landless labourers and dairy farmers. He also suggested to devise a concrete action plan to deal with the stray cattle menace. Stray cattle have not only become a problem to farmers, but is also leading to accidents. He said western Rajasthan districts are also facing shortage of fodder. Minister for agriculture and animal husbandry Lalchand Kataria pointed out that fisheries and poultry industry is also facing crisis due to the lockdown. Dairy minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said there was huge gap in milk supply and demand after lockdown posing problem to dairy federations. He said if the lockdown was further extended, the federation had to think of door-to-door delivery of milk. He said while there is excess supply of milk by about 15-20%, the demand was shrunk by 30- 35 %. Since all the dairies in the country are affected by the lockdown, the price of milk has also come down. Rajesh Sharma, secretary dairy, informed that department was trying to augment supply to army, Delhi Dairy to absorb the excess supply of milk during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/distribute-grants-to-gaushalas-at-the-earliest-says-cm/articleshow/75637027.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||computer operators of Secretariat protest over unpaid salaries||JAIPUR: Nearly 150 computer operators of various departments at the Secretariat staged a protest on Friday over non-payment of salaries since the lockdown was imposed in the state. In all, 212 computer operators have not received their salaries. The protesters even threatened to commit suicide if their salaries were not paid, which was due since March 21. They also stated the state government and department of personnel (DOP) will be responsible for this. They met Chief Secretary D B Gupta and discussed the matter with him, who assured them of raising their issue with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The computer operators work at the Secretariat on a contractual basis and are paid Rs 6,400 each. Also, their contract term ends on May 31 and it has not been extended yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/comp-operators-of-secretariat-protest-over-unpaid-salaries/articleshow/75637044.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC rejects parole plea of convict from curfew area||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Friday rejected a petition for parole by a convict stating that if he was granted bail, he might carry infections back to the jail premises on his return to the prison. The court declined the parole after observing that the petitioner belonged to the area of the city which is a hotspot for coronavirus and presently under curfew. Petitioner Bhawani Singh, who has been convicted under the Pocso Act, is serving life sentence. He had moved an application to district parole advisory committee for first parole, which had been decided by the committee directing release of the petitioner for 20 days on March 11. But the committee had required him to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two separate sureties of Rs 25,000 each. “We had moved high court praying relaxation in the condition of furnishing two sureties,” said petitioner’s counsel Kaluram Bhati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-rejects-parole-plea-of-convict-from-curfew-area/articleshow/75637039.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC parole for Rajendra Mirdha case convict||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court granted a 28-day conditional parole to Harnek Singh, who is serving life imprisonment in Jaipur jail as a convict in Rajendra Mirdha kidnapping case. On April 17, the state government had rejected the recommendations by the State Parole Committee to grant parole to the convict. And that too, when the Supreme Court too had urged the state governments to make efforts to reduce congestion in jails due to the pandemic. While hearing the matter, a bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Sharma ordered for release on conditional parole. During the hearing on the petition, advocate Vishram Prajapati, appearing for Harnek Singh, argued that once the parole committee approved the parole, the state government’s decision to withhold parole is without any basis. Harnek Singh had been sentenced to 13 years, 7 months and 29 days till April 25, 2020. The petition also cited the behaviour of Singh in jail and the report of the jail administration was also presented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-parole-for-mirdha-case-convict/articleshow/75637051.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||UP man kills self after missing shramik train in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh (UP) killed himself on the track after he failed to catch the Shramik Special train for UP at the Rajkot railway station. According to police, Ramashray Shivratan (36) was overwhelmed with depression after missing the only special train that would have taken him home to Mau district. Suddenly, he hurled himself in front of a goods train at the station itself on Thursday, police said. However, it's still not known where Shivratan was working and since how long. The railways had operated two Shramik Special trains to Baliya on Wednesday and Thursday. Cops could identity the deceased from his Aadhar and voter ID card. He hailed from Godhana village of Ghosi tehsil of Mau district, said Paresh Teraiya, assistant sub-inspector with Rajkot railway police station. “ I spoke with Mau district collector and Ghosi police station in-charge who sent men to Godhana village and informed the family about his demise,” Teraiya said. This is the second incident of UP migrant committing suicide within two days. On Wednesday, a 45-year-old migrant from Majhaon village of UP had hanged himself behind the dyeing unit in Jetpur town of Rajkot district. “We have kept the body in the morgue. We will wait for his family members for three days to come and claim the body. If no one turns up, we will perform his last rites,” added Teraiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/up-man-kills-self-after-missing-shramik-train/articleshow/75636212.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Forest department to take immediate steps to check poaching||JAIPUR: Rajasthan forest and wildlife department has identified 16 species which have been subject to illegal trading and poaching. These species will be monitored and their population will be under strict vigil. The move comes after the ministry of environment, forests and climate change issued an advisory on April 30 to all the states and Union territories to check poaching in all reserves, parks and sanctuaries. State’s chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar issued a letter after the advisory which said that despite continued patrolling by the forest staff, cases of poaching have been reported especially outside the forest/protected areas. The animals being most commonly being poached include chinkara, blackbuck and mongoose. The letter lists steps which need to be taken by the forest officials to curb poaching. “Intelligence needs to be collected pertaining to illegal trade of the identified species and conduct enforcement operations apart from gathering information on modus operandi in poaching, concealment techniques, smuggling etc. Information also needs to be collected on criminals and networks involved in illegal trade.” The identified species include leopard, tiger, great indian bustard, game species like partridge and others. A status report also needs to be shared by the state with MoEF and CC. A rapid action force also needs to be constituted to apprehend the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-to-take-immediate-steps-to-check-poaching/articleshow/75637048.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU invites applications||COIMBATORE: The Technology Business Incubator at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has invited online applications for its RKVY R- ABI Agriprenuership orientation programme-II, 2020-21. Graduates with an innovative idea and aspiring to start an agribusiness venture are encouraged to apply. The candidates will be screened and selected by a committee for a full time 60 days training with a stipend of Rs 10,000 a month for two months. After successful completion of the training, the business plan of the trainees will be forwarded to the ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare, New Delhi, for a possible grant of up to Rs 5 lakh. Online applications is available on: https://sites.google.com/a/tnau.ac.in/tbi, https://tbitnau.com, http://www.tnau.ac.in. The last date for receipt of filled in online application is May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-invites-applications/articleshow/75637052.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Udaipur||Two children electrocuted while flying kites in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Flying kites turned tragic for the families of two kids who were electrocuted at sector-5 under Hiran Magri police station area of Udaipur city on Friday late evening. The deceased have been identified as Naman son of Khemchand (13), and Hardik son of Harish Sindhi (14) , who were cousins. The two children were flying kites on the terrace of their house. As the kite got stuck between live electric wires passing by their house connecting two 11 KV transformers the boys tried to retrieve it. Without realising that high voltage current was passing through the wires the children used an iron rod to retrieve the kite. As soon as one of them came in contact with the wires through the iron rod, current passed through the other and both were killed on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/two-children-electrocuted-while-flying-kites-in-udaipur/articleshow/75637054.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Pandhrabodi & Kashi Nagar register cases, notified as containment zones||Nagpur: Two of the three patients who were admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and tested positive for Covid-19 have been identified as residents of Pandhrabodi slum in West Nagpur, and Kashi Nagar in South-West Nagpur. These areas are new for Covid-19 and have now been notified as containment zones. Now, seven of 10 Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) zones have active cases of Covid-19.TOI had on Friday reported three patients from GMCH tested positive. One is 29-year-old person from Trust Layout, Pandhrabodi slum. He was admitted at GMCH on May 5 for jaundice and was also suffering from cirrhosis of liver. Another man from Mominpura also tested positive on Friday.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified containment zone considering the house of patient as epicentre. The zone covers many areas. It begins from Ambazari Garden Corner at New Verma Layout to Om Sales Chowk to Hillfort Public School to Ram Nagar Square to Nelson Mandela Hostel Square. Thus, it covers entire Pandhrabodi slum, Hill Top, Bajiprabhu Nagar and Sanjay Nagar slum.Panic gripped adjoining areas like Verma Layout, Gandhi Nagar, Gokulpeth, Ram Nagar etc as people from Pandhrabodi work in these areas as housemaids, drivers and other trades.NMC additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “The patient and his brother are not employed. His mother works with a mess at Ram Nagar but said she had not been going for work since lockdown. His father runs a puncture shop, and has also been at home since lockdown. We have quarantined all family members and some neighbours. Door-to-door survey will begin from Saturday and more close contacts will be quarantined.”NMC team led by assistant commissioner Prakash Warhade barricaded the entire zone. Gantawar told TOI, “Patient from Kashi Nagar, Shatabdi Chowk, is a mentally challenged person and admitted at GMCH for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). His brothers have history of travel to other areas and detailed investigation is going on.”The patient was taking treatment from a local hospital before being admitted at GMCH. Also, he was first taken to another hospital at Congress Nagar. The civic body has quarantined doctors and some staffer from these hospitals, and likely to shut the hospitals on temporary basis for some days beginning Saturday.Mundhe notified Kashi Nagar and adjoining areas as containment zone with boundaries at Inner Ring Road on one side and Abhay Nagar Garden and Beltarodi Road on other side.The third positive person is a friend of the 22-year-old deceased from Parvati Nagar slums. He is a resident of Jaibhim Nagar, which is adjacent to Parvati Nagar. He reportedly got admitted at GMCH immediately after he came to know about the deceased’s positive reports.Mundhe has now extended Parvati Nagar containment zone up to boundary of Jaibhim Nagar.The patient works at a shop at Sadar and has a long travel history to other areas of the city. NMC is investigating into this case.Number of cases from new areas increased to seven in last three days. Cases came from Bada Tajbagh, Ganeshpeth, Parvati Nagar and Khushi Nagar near Jaripatka on Wednesday.Now, only three zones — Laxmi Nagar, Lakadganj and Mangalwari zones — do not have any active case of Covid-19. But earlier there were cases from these zones. It also means all ten zones of the city have recorded cases since March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandhrabodi-kashi-nagar-register-cases-notified-as-containment-zones/articleshow/75636220.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Ash immersion rituals begin at Ganga in Haridwar after over a month||HARIDWAR: People waiting for a long time to immerse the ashes of their departed loved ones in the Ganga began arriving in the holy city on Friday a day after the Uttarakhand government decided to allow ash immersion rituals to take place. The post-cremation rituals had been suspended following the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 threat. In a cabinet meet on Thursday, it was decided by the state government to allow a maximum of two persons from a deceased’s family (besides the vehicle driver) to travel to Haridwar from other states/districts to perform rituals. Since early morning on Friday, people carrying urns containing ashes could be seen at the Sati ghat in Kankhal, a prominent ghat where immersion rituals are held. The Kusha ghat near Har-ki-Pauri, too, saw priests conducting the karmakand (post-cremation rituals) for bereaved families. Members of the Ganga Sabha, the body responsible for management of the Har-ki-Pauri ghat, said that the government’s decision is a welcome move. “Thousands of families were waiting to conduct rituals so that their deceased relatives' souls get peace. Also, priests who are dependent on income from these rituals were facing tough times. This decision has come as a great relief for both,” said Pradeep Jha, president, Ganga Sabha. According to estimates, before the lockdown was enforced, around 1000 people used to come to Haridwar every day for post-cremation rituals, mainly from north Indian states like Delhi, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body representing 13 prominent akhadas (sects of seers) while hailing the government decision, said that now, steps should be initiated to open temples too. Demands were also raised by a few dharamshala owners and eateries to allow them to operate in order to cater to those coming to Haridwar for ash immersion. Meanwhile, the commencement of post-cremation rituals in Haridwar came as welcome news for those associated with cremation grounds as well. Devesh Agarwal, convener of the Lakhibagh cremation ground in Dehradun said that “it was getting increasingly difficult to accommodate the urns containing last remains of the deceased at the cremation ground.” “There are more than 100 asthi kalash (pitcher containing last remains) waiting to be collected. Thankfully, the restrictions on ash imersion in Ganga have been lifted, else it would have been very difficult to store more urns in the cremation ground.” Expressing similar sentiments, Subhash Chhabra, custodian of the Rambagh cremation ground at Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar, said, “We have around fifty lockers for keeping the ashes, but all these lockers were filled during the lockdown. Since there was no space left for keeping the ashes, we were tying the urns to trees till the time the families came to collect them". (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh and Aakash Ahuja)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ash-immersion-rituals-begin-at-ganga-in-haridwar-after-over-a-month/articleshow/75635025.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 9, 2020||Madurai||No bail for duo involved in two-wheeler thefts||Madurai: The bail plea of two people who were arrested for their involvement in several two-wheeler thefts, was dismissed by the Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court on Thursday. The Pamban police had registered a case against Ranjithkhan, 29, and Hameed Khan, 29, residents of Pamban on April 22 under sections 379, 411, 420, 465, 471 and 468 of IPC. The duo filed an e-bail application. The petitioners’ counsel submitted that the two were innocent and not connected to the case. They had purchased a two-wheeler from a person who was arrayed as third accused in the case. Citing that their earlier bail application was dismissed by the court, he sought to grant bail to them as they are willing to undertake any condition imposed by the court. The public prosecutor submitted that the complainant in this case is a resident of Dindigul district whose two-wheeler was stolen on February 4, when it was parked in front of his office. In the meantime, the complainant received an SMS from the Ramanathapuram district traffic police stating that his two-wheeler was involved in traffic violation and that a fine amount was paid through e-challan on April 18. Subsequently, the complainant lodged a complaint with the Pamban police and during investigation it was found that the petitioners were in possession of eight two-wheelers with fake registration numbers. Inquiry also revealed that the third accused had stolen the two-wheelers with the help of the petitioners from various places and fabricated the RC books. Since the third accused is absconding and the investigation is under way, the public prosecutor objected to the grant of bail.Taking into consideration the nature of offence and that the third accused is still absconding, the principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram dismissed the bail petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-bail-for-duo-involved-in-two-wheeler-thefts/articleshow/75637073.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals in Kolkata can test OPD patients for Covid-19||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata will now be allowed to test their outpatients for Covid-19, a move that will help free up beds at isolation units, a major portion of which is now being occupied by suspects. According to a health department decision, that will soon be officially communicated to hospitals, doctors can now recommend a test to a suspect who seeks outpatient consultation. The latter can stay at home till the test result is out and will have the option to either seek admission at a designated Covid hospital or stay in home isolation abiding by the ICMR guidelines if he or she tests positive. It has, however, been made clear that only private hospitals can recommend tests to OPD patients and it must be prescribed in writing by a doctor. Government Covid hospitals will continue to test only admitted patients and samples sent to them. “Patients can’t seek a test either at a private laboratory or hospital. Those who test positive must be isolated either at a designated hospital or at home, provided the conditions prescribed by ICMR can be adhered to,” a senior health official said. Private hospitals greeted the decision and pointed out that along with the move to allow testing of surgery patients, it will now help to curb transmission. AMRI Hospitals said it will now recommend tests to OPD patients after screening. “This is a positive move that will help to prevent crowding at hospitals and ensure that more positive patients can be admitted. At the moment, we are being forced to admit suspects which is depriving Covid positives waiting for admission,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. Fortis Hospital is set to create a screening bay where patients seeking admission for surgery and suspects seeking OPD consultation will be tested. “We will be recommending tests to OPD patients if the symptoms warrant it. These will include surgery patients and those with mild symptoms or asymptomatic contacts of Covid positives. It makes sense to test them at the OPD for it not only frees up beds, but also protects our health workers from contacts and saves patients from spending unnecessarily,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Another private hospital off EM Bypass said it was ready to recommend tests. “It was discussed briefly at the health department convened meeting with private hospital representatives on Thursday and we welcome it. We have been told that a guideline on this will be issued soon,” said an official of the hospital. According to the guidelines issued by the central government, a treating medical officer ‘should clinically assign the person a mild or presymptomatic case for Covid-19 infection’. “After this, it is crucial that the person should have a requisite facility in house for self-isolation of the patient as well as a quarantine facility for other family members. Now having the infection means that the person can easily transmit the virus, therefore, a caregiver should be available all day and night.” It also mentions that similar to hospital norms, caregivers and other close contacts are asked to consume Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis upon a doctor’s prescription as a preventative measure against the infection. Some health experts, though, expressed concern at the fact that positive patients may now have a longer social contact. “If they are allowed to return home pending a test result, chances of transmission will rise. Also, the provision of home isolation for Covid positives with mild symptoms may not work since screening will never be fool-proof,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-can-test-opd-patients-for-covid-19/articleshow/75636230.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Essentials’ shops in c-zones to open for six hours only||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in consultation with police department has decided to restrict opening of shops selling essential commodities in containment zones for only six hours. Orders have been given to not allow movement of even public representatives in and out of containment zones.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay met along with NMC and police officials on Friday. Considering suggestion of police officials, Mundhe issued a notification allowing essential commodities’ shops only between 7am and 1pm in containment zones. “In the interest of public safety at large, it is necessary to restrict the timings in containment zones to prevent crowding and to contain and control the spread of Covid-19,” the notification said.Preliminary investigations by NMC and police had revealed a group including the deceased from Parvati Nagar used to go to Mominpura and Satranjipura containment zones. Also, cases in Mominpura and Satranjipura crossed 100 which proved people had continued to meet each other in containment zones. There are now 14 containment zones in city while five have been denotified. “Next 15 days are crucial for the city. If we fail to control the spread in this time, we will face consequences for months,” Mundhe told police officials. He also urged the people to stay at home and maintain social distancing if they move out for essential services for next 15 days.Meanwhile, three more from city tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the district’s tally to 270. Two are from Mominpura and one from Satranjipura. The cases in Mominpura increased to 124 with three unknown cases of Thursday also identified from this locality. Satranjipura’s tally is 115. The two localities account for 88.51% of district’s cases.Samples of many of 231 persons from Parvati Nagar have reportedly tested negative. A 22-year-old football player from this area had died and his samples tested positive on Wednesday.A 50-year-old female from Satranjipura was discharged from IGGMCH on Friday taking the total recoveries to 66 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/essentials-shops-in-c-zones-to-open-for-six-hours-only/articleshow/75636224.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Elective operations put on hold as private doctors can’t prescribe Covid-19 tests||MUMBAI: The change in the Covid-19 testing protocol announced late on Thursday, which proved to be the last and yet another controversial decision of shunted municipal commissioner Pravin Pardeshi, disrupted medical services on Friday. Several elective surgeries had to be put on hold as private doctors were told by laboratories that they were not authorised to write the tests, triggering complaints about handling emergencies and how it could push people to further delay necessary treatments. The new rule, as reported by TOI in its Friday edition, said a suspected patient would have to come to a BMC quarantine centre to give the swab sample and stay there till the test results are out. Moreover, tests could be conducted only if the prescription is routed through the BMC’s medical health officer. However, the instructions that began going out from ward officers on Friday said tests prescribed by private doctors will be honoured for pregnant women, dialysis and cancer patients, and those with co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/elective-ops-put-on-hold-as-pvt-docs-cant-prescribe-covid-tests/articleshow/75637747.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation office shut for 2 days after staff test positive||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) headquarters will be closed for two days after a civil defence staff of the civic body tested positive on Friday. The office will be sanitized before being opened again. Since the outbreak of coronavirus, the JMC officials have been coming to office every day without break, except this weekend, in which they have to work from home. This weekend, the entire JMC building at Lal Kothi will be sanitized before work is resumed. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said that emergency work will continue from Civil Line zone till the headquarters is opened. “Our Lal Kothi office will be shut, including the control room. Till then, we have shifted our files, computers to the civil line zones,” said Garg. The infected person was part of civil defence team who was involved in sanitization work in the city. It is expected that he got infected while working on the field. On May 4, he complained of fever and weakness. The JMC officials tested him and sent him on leave. On Friday, when reports came, he was found positive. Two people who came in contact with him were also sent for home isolation. However, the delay of four days in test result has raised scare among the officials. The person might have infected his family members too. The JMC has started testing its staff since last week, but it is expecting to get the result soon to avoid further spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-office-shut-for-2-days-after-staff-test-positive/articleshow/75637059.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: The unpopular saviour — plastics play undisputed role in Covid-19 fight||Close to two years after the United Nations declared plastic pollution a global crisis, and state governments like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra imposed a ban of various types of plastic products, the Covid-19 pandemic has overnight mainstreamed a highly specialized, and rarely used paraphernalia made out of single use plastics (SUPs) - personal protective equipment (PPE). The outbreak has redeemed a material that till about a few months ago, was at the receiving end of a massive international campaign against its production and use. Hospitals and healthcare workers are suddenly staring at a skyrocketing demand for hazmat suits, N95 masks, visors, gloves, shoe covers and goggles – all of which are made of polypropylene (PPE), a thermoplastic that has emerged the most sanitary, reliable and cost-effective answer so far to the crisis. Read the story on TOI+ How unpopular plastic turned saviour in Covid-19 fight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-unpopular-saviour-plastics-play-undisputed-role-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75637058.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government shutting doors on walking labourers is inhuman, say NGOs||JAIPUR: Various NGOs and trade unions have petitioned the state government against sealing its borders with other states. The petition to the chief minister said, “The Rajasthan government’s decision to deny entry to the state by terming people walking long distances from other states as ‘unauthorised’ is highly condemnable. How can a state alienate its people this way? This step of the government and the administration is inhuman in the times of crisis,” the petition, signed by 51 organisations including PUCL and MKSS, said. “We all know the reason of children, old, and pregnant women walking thousands of kilometres on foot — there is no work anywhere in the last 45 days due to lockdown. They have got only hunger, trouble and persecution in the last 45 days of lockdown. Governments have also meted out step-motherly treatment,” the petition said After all, when they want to live in their own home, at least among their loved ones, they have to walk home on foot in the absence of any other option, their home-state is treating them with suspicion is all the more painful, they pointed out. The government has to understand that if the attitude of the state where they went to work was inclusive and sensitive, then they would not have come back. No bread-earner would decide to leave his livelihood and return home empty handed so easily. But as soon as the inter-state rail facility started, lakhs of people registered to go home with their own money. The workers want to return home and no government, including the Rajasthan government, is ready to tell them when they will be able to go home. The Government of Rajasthan on May 7 decided that now passengers without e-pass will not be allowed to enter the state. Could not these people be quarantined in the state by keeping them in shelter homes as before? Is it so difficult to turn over 60,000 schools in the state into quarantine centres? The petition asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-shutting-doors-on-walking-labourers-is-inhuman-say-ngos/articleshow/75637065.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Six of family killed in mishap on Abu-Palanpur highway||JODHPUR: Six persons of a family died and three were injured in an accident on Abu-Palanpur highway when the car in which they were travelling was hit by another car coming from opposite direction on Friday. Two of them died on the spot, while four breathed their last in the hospital. Among the three injured, two are from the same family. The driver of the second car, which breached a divider and was coming from the opposite direction, is also injured. All three have been referred to a Udaipur hospital. The eight-member family from Sirohi was coming from Pune after they received permission to enter the district. Police said six members of a family died while two others, including a girl child, are struggling for life in a Udaipur hospital. “This family hailed from Kalindri in Sirohi district and had settled in Pune where they had cloth business. Amid the lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak, they had set off from Pune for their home in Sirohi after taking permission,” said a police officer. Barley half-an-hour before the mishap, they had entered the border from Mawli and had been heading to Kalindri through Abu Road. “When they reached near village Kinvarli around 3.30pm, their car was hit by another car coming from the opposite direction. The other car, after losing control, jumped the divider and smashed into the family’s car,” the officer said. The collision was so intense that both the car turned into a mangled mass of metal, with bodies of passengers stuck in them. Villagers from nearby places rushed to the spot and initiated a rescue operation with the help of police, which reached the spot on learning about the accident. The deceased have been identified as Govind (55), Bhagu Devi (50), Rekha (38), Vipul (35), Arvind (28) and Pushpit (15). The two injured from this family are Praveen (32) and Divyanshi (2). The driver of the second car, Chandan Yadav (34), is also injured and undergoing treatment at Udaipur. Yadav had come from Mumbai to drop a family in Sirohi and was on his way back to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/6-of-family-killed-in-mishap-on-abu-palanpur-highway/articleshow/75637068.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 9, 2020||Salem||3 held for desecrating Kamaraj statue||Salem: The Karuppur police in the district on Friday arrested three men for desecrating a statue of former chief minister K Kamaraj. In an inebriated condition, the men placed a garland made of slippers on the statue. The accused have been identified as A Aravindan, 22, G Vetrivel, 22, E Sugavaneswaran 22. Around 5am, the police were alerted by the residents after they spotted slippers on the statue. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Salem (west), J Nagarajan and other officials rushed to the spot and initiated an inquiry. “We checked the CCTV footage that was available near the statue and identified the accused,” the ACP said. “The men confessed to having desecrated the statue after consuming alcohol,” added the ACP. The trio were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-held-for-desecrating-kamaraj-statue/articleshow/75637067.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala considers amending NRKs quarantine guidelines||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government is exploring the possibility of amending the quarantine guidelines for NRKs and for those who are coming from the red zones in other states. The discussion on amending the guidelines happened during the review meeting here on Friday. After the meeting, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said a discussion happened and that the government is giving final shape to it. “The discussions are on what kind of changes should be brought. The final decision will be taken on Saturday,'' said a top official. There was discussion that the state had shown a successful model of home quarantine of over 1.5 lakh people who have come from abroad and hence there should be a discussion with the Centre on promoting this instead of the institutional quarantine. Only symptomatic people should be sent for quarantine in the hospitals, which was the general opinion. The states should be allowed to take a decision on the quarantine guidelines based on the situations prevailing there and hence this should be brought before the notice of the union health ministry. Even the chief minister admitted in the meeting that the state had set a model on home quarantine of the NRKs and hence the state can do better if we go for home quarantine of the NRKs. The chief secretary is likely to raise this in the video conferencing he will have with the union cabinet secretary on Saturday. In the meeting, the officials also raised concerns over the institutional quarantine given to the people who are coming from the red zones of other states. In some Covid Care Centres, three or more people are staying in a single room and they are also using common bathrooms. The experts pointed out that this kind of quarantine will spoil the very purpose of it and hence the state has to rethink accommodating the people who are coming from other states. At present, the state has identified 8912 people who have come from red zones of other states. Steps are on to find out these people and bring them under the institutional quarantine. So far 3216 people have been shifted to the institutional quarantine. The review meeting observed that the NRKs and the people from the red zones of other states should not be housed in the same Covid Care Centres. In Thiruvananthapuram, the same centre has been planned for the NRKs and also for the people from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-considers-amending-nrk-quarantine-guidelines/articleshow/75635084.cms||Rajiv G
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Woman killed by daughter, grandson over land dispute||GORAKHPUR: A 70-year-old woman was killed allegedly by one of her daughters and grandson over a property dispute in Madraha Nakta Tola under Badhalganj police station on Friday. The woman’s body, with her throat slit, was found in front of her house in Nakta Tola on Friday morning. One of the daughters of the deceased identified as Sangita (50) and grandson Vipin (22) were arrested on the complaint of another daughter, informed police. As per reports, the woman identified as Chandrawati Devi was wife of retired SDO of telecommunication department, Anant Sahini. The couple had 6 daughters, one of whom, named Gita was married in Mau district but has been living at her parents’ home in Nakta Tola since her husband died two decades ago. Gita’s three daughters also lived with her at Chandrawati’s house. Husband Anant Sahini constructed a house at Madria Chauraha and also bought some land. The couple’s another girl Sangita, was married in Azamgarh but even she had returned to her parents’ home fifteen years ago when her husband died. However, due to differences with her mother, she started living in another house with her four sons and a daughter. She also took her share of her father’s property. Chandrawati wanted to give a big share of her property to Gita, but Sangita objected. On Thursday, Chandrawati had a clash with Sangita and her son Vipin over the issue, but the police intervened and pacified them. On Friday, Chandrawati went out for a morning walk. Soon after, villagers found her body in front of her house and informed police. On the written complaint of Gita, police registered a case against Sangita and Vipin under Section 302 (murder) of IPC arrested both of them. A blood stained wooden stick was recovered from Sangita’s possession and a sharp-edged weapon with blood spots was recovered from Vipin’s possession, said Badhalganj SHO Ramagya Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-killed-by-daughter-grandson-over-land-dispute/articleshow/75634774.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Priests perform ‘aarti’ onroad, DM says norms broken||VARANASI: A group of priests associated with the former mahant of Kashi Vishwanath Temple performed the evening ‘Saptarshi Aarti’ on road on Thursday, violating the norms of lockdown in protest against denial of entry in the temple. However, the ritual was also performed in the sanctum sanctorum of KVT by other priests. The temple administration had restricted the entry of this group of priests in the temple for its alleged involvement in spreading rumours regarding damage of a part of Kailash Mahadev Mandir in the KVT corridor area. The temple administration further alleged that the group was spreading rumours to stir religious sentiments of the people. On its part, the group alleged that the temple administration wanted to take over the Kailash Mahadev Temple. Taking note of the controversy, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the matter is being looked into, and also made it clear that any violation of Disaster Management Act will not be tolerated. “The priests should talk to the temple administration instead of making the issue sensational. It is very clear that the lockdown was violated at public place,” he added. Chief executive officer of KVT Vishal Singh told TOI on Friday that the temple administration is yet to receive the reply of the notice given to the protesting group of priests. “The matter would be reported to the DM after receiving reply from them for appropriate action,” he added. SSP Prabhakar Chowdhary said that the violation of section 144 during lockdown has been reported to the DM, who will put the matter before court. Meanwhile, the matter also took a political colour. In a video message on social media, senior Congress leader and former MLA Ajay Rai alleged that the 300-year-old tradition of Saptarshi Aarti by the family of former mahant was broken, and blamed the temple administration for the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/priests-perform-aarti-onroad-dm-says-norms-broken/articleshow/75634666.cms||Binay Singh
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Too many e-pass pleas trigger glitch||Kolkata: Several people in the city took to social media to express their anxiety after their efforts to get e-passes hit a brickwall as the system either hung or they could not upload the documents. Cops agreed the system slowed down at times and said that thousands of people had been issued e-passes, despite the glitches. “Everyone is applying for an e-pass. We want to explain clearly about the eligibility of obtaining it. Only those, who are exempted by the government laws and have proper documents showing that they form 25% of the workforce in their firms, are eligible for it. These passes are useful only for travelling within the city,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “I want to go to office in my car but I am unable to get an e-pass. Each time I am trying to upload the necessary document, it is not being received or accepted by the system. There is no proper response from local cops. Sometimes, the e-pass site is not working too. Many people are going out for unnecessary reasons but we are suffering,” wrote Sanjay Mondal on Kolkata traffic police’s Twitter account. However, a traffic sergeant said many people used it as an excuse at naka checks. “We ask them to share the screenshots, otherwise we will challan all with rejected applications,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/too-many-e-pass-pleas-trigger-glitch/articleshow/75636246.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||BAGH doc, Savli veggie vendor found infected||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara city and district touched 500 on Friday with 24 more people testing positive since Thursday. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is yet to record the death of an elderly man due to Covid-19 despite over 24 hours passing after his death on Thursday. The VMC has stated that the mortality will now be declared only after a death audit by a team of doctors in consultation with the state government. The process does not seem to have ended even as the elderly man died at the GMERS, Gotri Hospital on or before Thursday afternoon. According to details disclosed by the civic body, two of the cases were registered in the district outside VMC limits. A physician working with city-based Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) and a vegetable seller from Savli taluka tested positive of Covid-19 on Friday. The total number of cases in Vadodara rural have now touched 13. The 59-year-old physician had developed mild symptoms on Thursday. “Though he tested positive, he is asymptomatic and he is hale and hearty,” said BAGH’s vice- president Dr Ravi Hirwani. “As a precautionary measure, the doctor and his wife have self-isolated at their house,” said Dr Hirwani, rubbishing rumours about other staff members of the hospital being kept in isolation. Rumours were also doing rounds that the entire Vasna-Bhayli area, where the doctor couple have their house, has been sealed. “It is not true. As a precautionary measure, we just put houses located nearby as containment zone. In this case, we have done the same without causing any inconvenience to others,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara. The 37-year-old positive patient from Lalpari area of Savli is also asymptomatic. “It was during our sampling drive that we came across this patient, who is asymptomatic. He used to purchase vegetables from APMC where he are carrying out screening of all vendors,” said Tilawat Four others who had come in his close contact has been put under quarantine at Babaria campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bagh-doc-savli-veggie-vendor-found-infected/articleshow/75634254.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Two more +ve cases in Dharmapuri||DHARMAPURI/KRISHNAGIRI: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharmapuri on Friday, taking the total number of cases to four in the district. The two were selling vegetables at Koyambedu market in Chennai. The duo returned to their native Thenkaraikottai near Pappireddipatty on Monday after the Koyambedu market was closed. “The two patients, aged 39 and 21, are being treated at the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital,” collector S Malarvizhi said. Similarly, two more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday in Krishnagiri, taking the total numbers of cases to 10 on Friday. Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar said both the cases were contacts of Soolagiri patients, who tested positive four days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-more-ve-cases-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/75637062.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||Over 1,000 migrant workers from Surat reach Varanasi||VARANASI: The Shramik special trains continued to bring migrant workers stranded in different cities during lockdown to Varanasi and Jaunpur on Friday. The workers were sent to their respective destinations after proper screening and document verification. A total of 1,222 workers from Surat arrived Varanasi railway station in the morning. After health screening they were sent to different districts of UP and neigbouring Bihar and Jharkhand by buses. Similarly, 1,257 migrant workers from Barodara arrived Jaunpur in the afternoon. Among them 800 belonged to Jaunpur district, while others were the natives of different districts of eastern UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-1k-from-surat-reach-varanasi/articleshow/75634733.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Allahabad||Covid still an enigma, so prevention must: Experts||PRAYAGRAJ: The novel coronavirus has spread across 187 countries and the lockdown to check the pandemic has made people inquisitive about ways to protect themselves and their loved ones. Since research is on full swing in top institutes worldwide to unravel the mystery of the virus unknown till the outbreak in China, TOI spoke to a number of experts about the findings and its survival on surfaces like veggies, fruits, wood, metals. Dr Archana Bajpai, a research associate at Babraham Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom, who is an Allahabad University alumna, said, “A study carried out by independent researchers and Prof. Alex W H Chin of the University of Hong Kong and published in the Lancet journal has shown that coronavirus is unstable at high temperatures. It has a long lifespan at low temperature like 4°C, but it is extremely sensitive to heat. Its survival is reduced to 50% in one day at 37°C and it gets completely killed in five minutes at 70°C.” Studies do not support assertions about sitting in sun or taking hot bath preventing infection as these only kill virus on surface and not the one that has entered body, cautioned Bajpai, who did her masters in biomathematics, bioinformatics, and computational biology from AU. “The study says the virus has a life span of 24 hours on wood and cloth, 48 hours on glass and more than four days on steel and plastic. So, one should not touch metal rods or wooden bench on going out,” she said. Another AU alumnus Vipul Gupta, now a research associate at Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, said, “A study, published in New England Journal of Medicine by Dr Van Doremalen and Bushmaker of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, USA, and Morris of Princeton University, has shown that the virus does not survive on copper for more than four hours.” “Unwrapped fruits, vegetables should be washed thoroughly under running water and left to dry,” said Gupta. “In India, food is cooked on high temperature, hence the virus, if any, gets killed during cooking. This is why freshly-cooked takeaway food delivered with minimum contact can be safe,” he added. Prof S I Rizvi of biochemistry department, AU, said, “The main difficulty in dealing with novel coronavirus is that it is absolutely new and researchers are still grappling to study its stability. The most intriguing trait of this virus is that it does not cause any symptoms in 80% patients. Thus, lockdown was the only effective way out to pin the virus in confined areas.” Prof I R Siddiqui of chemistry department, AU, said, “Scientists and doctors worldwide are doing their best to develop a vaccine. Till the time a safe vaccine is developed, the only way to prevent its spread is to follow social distancing, avoid crowds, washing hands, sanitization, etc. The vegetables and fruits purchased from market must be thoroughly washed, preferably first with potassium permanganate solution and then with sufficient clean water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-still-an-enigma-so-prevention-must-experts/articleshow/75636760.cms||Rajiv Mani
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan border closure leave many stranded||JAIPUR: The closure of the state borders has left hundreds of migrants, including those who have valid travel permits, stranded at the checkposts. All the 15 checkposts along the Gujarat border are flooded with migrants from eight states waiting to enter Rajasthan. The borders were closed on May 7 following a spike in Covid-19 cases after migrant labourers started entering Rajasthan. Entry is given to only those who have a permit issued till May 6 while those who have been issued permit for dates after the cut-off period are being refused entry. “Gujarat and other states have been informed of our change in policy. They have immediately stopped issuing permits for travelling into the state until the next order,” said Dungarpur collector Kana Ram said. For emergency travel, the permission has to give by the state home department. The abrupt change in policy has left several hundred migrants stranded indefinitely. These migrants are heading from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh via Ratanpur border. It includes a large number of those coming by foot. “It is bound to create a scary situation as those on the way will have no place to go. They should be allowed in the phased manner to prevent them from entering villages illegally,” said Krashna Rajsingh, a socio-political activist. By Friday afternoon, the checkpoint wore a deserted look as migrants dispersed into different locations to find an alternate way to enter the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-border-closure-leave-many-stranded/articleshow/75637072.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Allahabad||Yoga, kadha & meditation: Covid regimen in UP jails||PRAYAGRAJ: The rapidly increasing tally of novel coronavirus cases in the state has alerted jail authorities who are fretful of the fallouts of Covid-19 outbreak within the prison walls and are taking preventive steps besides social distancing to ensure all staff and inmates stay healthy. Around 750 inmates lodged in Kaushambi district jail start their day with an hour long yoga session after which they are served a ‘kadha’ to boost their immunity. B S Mukund, superintendent of Kaushambi district jail told TOI, “All the inmates below age of 50 years in our jail are attending daily yoga session in barracks and park from 6.30am to 7.30 am. This helps them keep fit, boosts their immunity and beats depression.” “Social distancing is strictly followed during the yoga session in the park within the district jail. The inmates also wear masks during yoga session,” the jail superintendent said. The inmates are also served a kadha (decoction) made from Tulsi (Basil), Dalchini (cinnamon), Kalimirch (black pepper), Shunthi (dry ginger), fresh lemon juice and munakka (raisin) to boost their immunity, he added. “At a time when cases of Covid-19 infection are increasing rapidly across the state, jail authorities have taken up all preventive measures to check its spread, especially in jails,” said Mukund. As there is no medicine for Covid-19, jail authorities decided to take all preventive measures. “We have adopted ayurvedic measures of boosting immunity of inmates. The Ayush ministry has issued recommendations and advised ways to boost body’s natural defence system. So, we started preparing and serving kadha to inmates,” he added. The inmates practise Yogasanas, Pranayam and meditation for at least 30 minutes in their barracks also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/yoga-kadha-meditation-covid-regimen-in-up-jails/articleshow/75634829.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Postal envelopes on Covid-19 released||COIMBATORE: To laud the selfless performance of Red Cross and Red Crescent volunteers who have been working in the frontline of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Coimbatore postal division on Friday released another set of postal envelopes with a franking slogan. The 300 envelopes in presentation packs have been imprinted with ‘To stop Covid-19, flatten the curve’ and the epidemic curve. Each presentation pack consist of a Rs 5 commercially used postal envelop and Rs 5 commemorative stamp on Mahatma Gandhi and cancelled by the date stamp impressions of the R S Puram head office. The cost of the presentation pack is Rs 170. They will be available for sale at the Philatelic Bureau at Good Shed Road Post Office. The envelopes are expected to be part of philatelic collections. “Franking is used instead of stamps. It mentions the stamp value it replaces, the name of the post office and has a special die on the corona theme,” said senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhere. This is the third philatelic product released by the division with the Covid-19 theme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/postal-envelopes-on-covid-19-released/articleshow/75637070.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tragedy hits Covid-19 containment measures||Visakhapatnam: Health officials have gone on an overdrive to trace everyone who were forced to move out of their homes in Gopalapatnam following the styrene gas leak from LG Polymers on Thursday. Gopalapatnam is one of the 15 containment zones marked in the city for coronavirus (Covid-19). Sources in the health department said that Covid-19 source tracing was done prior to the gas leak, but containment measures could not be ensured as residents left soon after the incident. Now, the officials will once again initiate door-to-door survey to know the whereabouts of the people who moved to other locations. Speaking on the issue, GVMC commissioner G Srijana said, “People living near the chemical plant are in a state of panic. Many have left the localities and moved in with relatives and friends in other areas. Right now our priority is to make sure that normalcy is restored, before other measures can be taken up.” District medical and health officer Dr S Tirupathi Rao said, “We have to first make sure that people can return to their homes and only then can we focus on Covid-19 containment measures.” Meanwhile, sources in the GVMC and district administration said that the officials are focusing on rehabilitation of gas leak survivors and prevention of such accidents. They have decided to resume Covid-19 related measures only after they are able to bring back normalcy in the localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tragedy-hits-covid-19-containment-measures/articleshow/75635087.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 9, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Kinnar Akhara members eye more followers||PRAYAGRAJ: Kinnar Akhara’s transgender seers have taken to WhatsApp to coordinate with each other for organising various activities during the lockdown period. The group which had attended Ujjain Kumbh in 2016 and Kumbh-2019 in Prayagraj have appointed each mahamandleshwar as in-charge of a particular state. The akhara aims to strengthen the organisation and ensure that their voice reaches their followers across the nation. Head of Kinnar Akhara Acharya Mahamandleshwar Swami Laxmi Narayan Tripathi said, “The akhara now has a presence in 22 states, up from 15. Our members have also increased to 35,000 from 18,000 earlier.” Acharya Tripathi has been monitoring the activities of all Whatsapp groups. “Transgenders have been exploited for long in the society and even their family members were forced to live a disgraceful life. Transgenders have been part of ‘Sanatan Dharma’ and they have been given a respectful status in Hindu mythology,” she said. Mahamandleshwar Swami Kaushalya Nand Giri aka Tina Maa has been assigned to take care of online activities of kinnar akhara in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kinnar-akhara-members-eye-more-followers/articleshow/75634957.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Varanasi||981 migrant workers reach Gorakhpur from Ludhiana||GORAKHPUR: Shramik special train carrying 981 migrant labourers from Ludhiana reached Gorakhpur station on Friday at 11am. Since Monday, 13,945 migrant workers have reached Gorakhpur from various states by 12 Shramik special trains. “After thermal screening and recording of details, all 981 passengers were ferried to their native districts by 40 UPSRTC buses deployed at Gorakhpur railway station,” said Sadar SDM Gaurav Sogarwal. “Another train from Delhi Anand Vihar station, carrying migrant labourers, will reach here at 3 am on Saturday,” added Sogarwal. Social distancing norms were strictly followed in the train, at the railway station and in buses.A passenger said, “We were not charged any money for the tickets, and were served food and water during the journey.” Meanwhile, a Shramik special train from Ambala to Katihar (Bihar) stopped at Gorakhpur railway station, where its passengers were provided with food packets and water bottles for their onward journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/981-migrant-workers-reach-gorakhpur-from-ludhiana/articleshow/75634804.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||BJP team meets governor over Bengal virus ops||Kolkata: A Bengal BJP delegation led by party state president Dilip Ghosh knocked on the doors of Raj Bhavan on Friday to draw the West Bengal governor’s attention to the state government’s “double standards” in Covid-19 management. After meeting the governor, Ghosh pointed to the “inhuman face” of the state government that is paying only “lip service” to bring back migrant workers, patients and pilgrims stranded outside Bengal. “We have been getting frantic calls from Bengal patients stuck in Vellore and pilgrims who had been to Haridwar and Vrindavan and thousands of migrant workers to help them return home. The CM has arranged for a special train from Ajmer to Kolkata, but has done nothing to bring back those caught in Haridwar or Vrindavan,” he said. Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee accused BJP of induling in “corona politics”. “BJP is into corona politics from Day 1, sending out messages and insinuations that do not go well with the situation we are in. This is not the time to do politics. We want all parties to come together and fight the virus along with the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-team-meets-governor-over-bengal-virus-ops/articleshow/75637751.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Vizianagaram, quarantine centres turning into hotspots||Visakhapatnam: Quarantine centres in Vizianagaram are fast turning into Covid-19 hotspots. The three cases reported on Wednesday were all from quarantine centres — the one in Piridi near Bobbili, the centre at MVGR college in the outskirts and from the centre at Seethanagaram. With the number of cases increasing and a majority of them being reported from quarantine centres is a cause of worry for the district medical authorities. Sources in the medical department said that with the rise in cases the number of sample tests being done has alos increased. Now, with some of the quarantine centres turning out to be hot beds, it has become imminent for them to conduct random testing in these centres. Talking to TOI, DMHO Dr S V Ramani Kumari said, “The number of people returning to the district has gone up and majority of the cases reported so far are from quarantine centres established for returnees. Our priority is to pace up sampling and increase sample base in quarantine centres.” Sources further pointed that medical teams are conducting tests across quarantine centres in the district and, more importantly, are focusing on centres where the cases have been reported. When asked about the actual number of samples collected in the last couple of days, the DMHO said that close to 500 people have been tested so far. Dr Kumari further said, “We will be procuring another 1,000 kits for RTPCR sampling by Monday, while we have more than 2,200 TRUE NAT testing kits. Our focus is to conduct at least 1,000 tests per day to ensure that the sample base increases and we get a true picture.” District collector Dr M Hari Jawahar Lal, who inspected a few quarantine centres, said, “We are taking all measures to ensure that the centres are properly sanitised and social distancing is maintained. More importantly, we are identifying additional welfare hostels to deal with the growing number of returnees to the district.” Meanwhile, district medical authorities said that Vizianagaram will have its own testing centre by next week and it will be established in the district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-vizianagaram-quarantine-centres-turning-into-hotspots/articleshow/75635100.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Nurses play mothers for newborns born to Covid-19 positive women||JAIPUR: Subhita (33) is taking care of infants born to coronavirus-infected women at Mahila Chikitsalaya since March 14. She herself is mother of a six-year-old daughter and the last time they met was on March 14 itself. Subhita has no idea when she will be able to meet her again. Subhita is a nurse and deployed at the nursery where newborns born to Covid-19 positive women are kept. “Around two months have passed since I met my daughter. I am missing her badly. She is staying with her grandparents. I hope I will be able to meet her again, once the situation improves,” said Subhita, who lives in Jhunjhunu. Her husband is a teacher posted in Alwar. “I see my daughter when I look at these beautiful newborns in the nursery. I know it is a difficult time and these infants need care when their own mother is infected with coronavirus,” she said. Mahila Chikitsalaya is a dedicated Covid-19 care hospital for pregnant women in Jaipur. Not only Subhita, her colleagues Meena, Manisha and other nurses are also there to take care of newborns. They perform their duties wearing personel protection equipment (PPE) for eight hours so that infants will remain protected from any sort of infection. In the hospital, three nurses have already tested positive. Mahila Chikitsalaya superintendent Dr Asha Varma has made arrangements for care of these newborns in the hospital. “There is a facility for mothers’ milk bank. Infants born to Covid-19 positive women, who are weak, are given milk donated by mothers at the milk bank. We are taking care of nutrition of these children,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, nodal officer Covid-19 at the Mahila Chikitsalaya in Jaipur. The nurses arrange milk from the milk bank for infants who are preterm and weak. “We are feeding these newborns from mothers’ milk bank who are preterm. However, children who are healthy are being provided formula milk. However, there is limited availability of mothers’ milk bank as no more donations are being done due to Covid-19,” said Dr Rathore. Till date, 41 women who have tested positive for Covid-19 have delivered babies in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nurses-play-mothers-for-newborns-born-to-covid-19-positive-women/articleshow/75637082.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||New twist: Five die after recovery and discharge in Dharavi||MUMBAI: A new Covid-19 dimension unfolded in Dharavi on Friday as BMC officials on routine calls to recovered patients discovered that five of them had died since their discharge. The victims had completed their 14-day hospital stay over a month ago. The death toll in Dharavi—the worst-hit slum in the city with 808 positive cases, having added 25 new patients on Friday— now stands at 26. BMC officials refused to comment on the possibility of reinfection and said they would study the deaths. Families of two of the recovered patients had received death certificates from private doctors that mentioned Covid-19 as the cause of death. “We need to ensure that those discharged are continuously followed up,” said an official. Reinfection among recovered patients is being studied in South Korea and China, and studies done in New York have shown that a small percentage of patients had required re-hospitalisation due to return of symptoms. “These five were admitted to hospital after they tested positive,” said a local civic official.“Now we have been carrying out a follow-up of all the patients that tested positive and were discharged since the first case was reported on April 1 [in Dharavi] when we found that five had passed away. We have asked their family members to provide us with the death certificate.” Officials said they were finding out whether the protocol for cremation, such as wrapping the body in special plastic sheets, had been followed. A central team that visited Dharavi on Wednesday had asked the BMC to ensure that high-risk contacts were isolated and quarantine facilities increased. The new municipal commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal, is scheduled to visit Dharavi on Saturday. Of the 25 new cases, the maximum number came from Matunga Labour Camp. The other new cases were from Kunchi Kurve Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Fatima Chawl, KM Chawl, Madina Compound, Muslim Nagar and New Municipal chawl. The BMC asked all local elected representatives to ask those living in their wards to immediately get themselves quarantined at the designated centre if they had any symptoms of novel coronavirus infection. A public address van was also kept going around the slum-dominated area, appealing to people to visit institutional quarantine centres in case of symptoms. Read the story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-twist-five-die-after-recovery-and-discharge-in-dharavi/articleshow/75637753.cms||Richa Pinto
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for attempt to disrupt harmony||RAJKOT: The man who pronounced himself as the king of Kutch was arrested in Sanjognagar locality of Bhuj on Thursday for allegedly spreading hatred between two communities.  Mohemmed Luhar (38), went to a mosque and after prayers picked up the mike and said, “I am the king of Kutch. Brothers wake up and come out of your houses.” “When we came to know about the incident, we arrested Luhar for causing unrest among two communities,” said Bhuj police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-attempt-to-disrupt-harmony/articleshow/75636282.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag styrene leak: Just short of her 10th birthday, N Grishma bids adieu||VISAKHAPATNAM: Too young to say goodbye, yet the nine-year-old N Grishma said her last farewell on Thursday after inhaling styrene that leaked from the LG Polymers plant. She was to have turned 10 on June 3. The class-IV student and her 11-year-old brother N Pardha had been planning to celebrate her birthday with family, friends and classmates. “We would have celebrated her 10th birthday on June 3 in a grand manner as entering one’s 10th year is a great occasion for us. Grishma was so excited about it. We promised to take her to a shopping mall once the lockdown was lifted to buy new clothes, gifts and also some jewellery for her birthday celebrations. This incident has ruined our dreams. We lost our daughter. How can life be so cruel?” said an inconsolable N Ganesh, Grishma’s father, at King Geaorge Hospital (KGH). In the early hours of Thursday, when gas enveloped RR Venkatapuram, Grishma was asleep. At 3.20 am, her parents woke up both children after noticing the smell and left the house. Grishma and Pardha, however, inhaled large quantitites of the gas and fell unconscious on the road. Both children were initially admitted to Pendurthi Government Hospital and later shifted to KGH where Grishma was declared brought dead. Grishma mother, N Lakshmi, who also fell sick after inhaling the gas recovered on Friday morning. Unaware that her daughter had passed away, she asked her husband Ganesh about their children. When she was asked to come to the mortuary on Friday afternoon to bid her daughter farewell one last time, Lakshmi fell unconsciousness. “My daughter was born in KG Hospital and died in KG Hospital and my life is ruined with the loss of my daughter. She was so active in academics and other activities,” said Lakshmi, her voice choking up. Remembering Grishma’s wishes for her birthday, Lakshmi said, “She asked me to buy her new clothes and some accessories on her birthday, now her sudden death has come as the biggest shock to our family. We don’t know how to lead a life without my daughter.” Grishma’s father Ganesh is an employee at the APSRTC workshop in Simhachalam area while her mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Grishma’s brother Pardha who is undergoing treatment in King George Hospital is yet to know that his sister is no more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/just-short-of-her-10th-birthday-n-grishma-bids-adieu/articleshow/75635109.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||‘Opt for pool sampling if Covid-19 cases are in bulk’||KANPUR: Nodal officer Anil Garg has directed the health authorities to go for pool sampling if corona positive cases are in bulk as this may help in finding out the reason in spread of deadly coronavirus. The nodal officer, who is also chief executive officer of UPSIDA, at a meeting held with district administration, police and health officials on Wednesday, directed to go for pool sampling. Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, who presided over the meeting, asked the officials to investigate the corona positive cases carefully. Police and the health department have been directed to trace record of a positive case separately and feed that data. The staff engaged in filling the CIF forms has been asked to take utmost care because they have to fill complete details of a positive patient in the form. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari said that aluminum chamber or secured bus, whatever needed, would be provided for sample collection in the hotspot areas. DIG/SSP Anant Deo told the nodal officer that the police department was using surveillance system in tracking and tracing corona positive patients. The commissioner directed the officials to run the Covid-19 lab at GSVM medical college with full steam. “All pending samples must be examined on a priority basis. Tracing and tracking any new positive case should be done on war footing”, he said. Meanwhile, Covid-19 hospital of LLR hospital has been attached with e-system of the hospital for paperless work. As soon as any new positive case is admitted, the patient’s details would be feeded online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/opt-for-pool-sampling-if-covid-19-cases-are-in-bulk/articleshow/75612172.cms||Anant Chandak
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shops in residential areas, some offices start working||NEW DELHI: Almost a week after lockdown relaxations were announced, life has slowly started to pick up pace in the capital with a visibly large number of standalone shops and residential neighbourhood outlets found open on Friday. However, most tobacco and paan outlets remained closed despite an explicit permission granted to them. Shopkeepers said it was not only because of the risk involved as number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise, but it was also because the supply chain from other states had got disrupted. Mahesh Sharma, who runs Sharma Paan Bhandar in Maujpur’s main market, said there was no point of resuming operations as products like betel leaves, tobacco and gutkha were still not available. “The products from the old stock are being sold at a higher rate in the black market. A cigarette worth Rs 10 is now for Rs 20,” Shyam Beniwal a local resident said. Neighbourhood shops for stationery, fans, mobile repair, opticals, atta chakki and tailoring were found open in east Delhi areas like Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Lalita Park, and in most urban villages of south and southwest Delhi. Geeta Colony resident Rajender Singh said the shops close down by 5pm. “Earlier, maximum business happened in the evenings, but now most shops are shut hours before the 7pm deadline,” he said. Around the JNU campus, stationery shops were found to be open but had no customers. Owner of Om book store said business in the coming month is expected to be way below normal as most students preparing for competitive exams had already returned home. Even Jawahar book depot wore a deserted look. As offices are now allowed to open with 33% staff, an increase was witnessed in the number of people visiting Nehru Place and Bhikaji Cama complexes on Friday. However, most private companies are desisting from reopening. TOI saw that temperature screening arrangements were in place at the entry point of Ansal Tower, Nehru Place. At Bhikaji Cama, office heads have been directed to sign an undertaking stating they won’t deploy more than 33% of the staff, offices will be sanitized twice a day, thermal guns will be used to screen employees and disinfectant mechanism will be used to clean shoes. Jai Ram Gupta, a worker at Bhikaji Cama Place, said, “I think more offices will open only after more transportation options are there”. At South Extension, shops in inner lanes of residential colonies were open, while the main market remained closed. Ice cream parlours and eateries in GK-1 were shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shops-in-residential-areas-some-offices-start-working/articleshow/75637077.cms||Paras Singh
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||First train with 1,140 guest workers leaves for Bihar||COIMBATORE: The first special train, carrying as many as 1,140 guest workers stranded in the district, left for Bihar from the Coimbatore Railway Junction on Friday. It is expected to reach Saharsa district on Sunday. Some workers from Bihar, who were staying in Pollachi, Kinathukedavu, Perur and Coimbatore south taluks, left on the non-stop train, a district administration official said. “They were brought to the station in private buses and made to undergo temperature screening before they were let inside the station. Tokens were distributed to them.” Seating arrangements were made to ensure physical distance between the passengers of the 24 compartments, a southern railway official said. Another train to Bihar will be operated on Saturday and subsequently, a train service or two per day will be operated to the other states, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said. “Out of the one lakh guest workers in the district, 22,000 had expressed desire to go back to their states. The fares are borne by the state government,” he said. Shivshankar Yadav, who had been working at a bakery near the government hospital, said he decided to go back as his family is worried about him. “They had been asking me to return as soon as possible. Even though I managed to get food with the help of volunteers, I did not get my wages as the bakery owner had left for his state,” he told TOI. “I will definitely come back to Coimbatore once normalcy returns.” But it was not a smooth ride for all. Sagar Kumar, who walked 16 kilometres to reach the station with a friend, though they would miss the train. “Our company in Thondamuthur was closed for over 40 days. We didn’t even have money for food. It had become very difficult to continue here and that’s why we decided to go back to Bihar. But we came to know that we needed tokens to enter the station only after reaching there. We had registered on the portal but were not aware of the rest of the procedures,” he said. The duo was finally able to board the train, thanks to the intervention of Perur tahsildar Radhakrishnan. Watch Shramik Special train with 1140 passengers onboard leaves from Coimbatore for Bihar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1st-train-with-1140-guest-workers-leaves-for-bihar/articleshow/75637080.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Too many e-pass pleas trigger glitch||Kolkata: Several people in the city took to social media to express their anxiety after their efforts to get e-passes hit a brickwall as the system either hung or they could not upload the documents. Cops agreed the system slowed down at times and said that thousands of people had been issued e-passes, despite the glitches. “Everyone is applying for an e-pass. We want to explain clearly about the eligibility of obtaining it. Only those, who are exempted by the government laws and have proper documents showing that they form 25% of the workforce in their firms, are eligible for it. These passes are useful only for travelling within the city,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “I want to go to office in my car but I am unable to get an e-pass. Each time I am trying to upload the necessary document, it is not being received or accepted by the system. There is no proper response from local cops. Sometimes, the e-pass site is not working too. Many people are going out for unnecessary reasons but we are suffering,” wrote Sanjay Mondal on Kolkata traffic police’s Twitter account. However, a traffic sergeant said many people used it as an excuse at naka checks. “We ask them to share the screenshots, otherwise we will challan all with rejected applications,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/too-many-e-pass-pleas-trigger-glitch/articleshow/75636304.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rumours of fresh gas leak surface at night||Visakhapatnam: It was a virtual nightmare for thousands of people on Thursday night as rumours flew thick and fast over one more gas leak forcing them to take refuge on the beach road. People living in the vicinity of LG Polymers in Gopalapatnam, where styrene had leaked in the early hours of Thursday, hurriedly vacated their houses and rushed to the beach road, 20 km away, to avoid further exposure. With no shelter and amenities, they had to spend the night under the sky. At around 11.40 pm on Thursday, people began queuing outside petrol bunks for refills and soon moved to safer places with women and children. there was confusion as authorities too began evacuating people from around the polymer plant as a precautionary measure. The beach road, which has been free of the usual hustle and bustle thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, suddenly came to life with hundreds of people on vehicles converging on it. There were also rumours that the styrene tank would explode. Police had a hectic time in convincing the residents that the leak had been plugged and special teams from the NDRF were neutralising the chemical to prevent it from forming vapour. Residents of RR Venkatapuram, China Mushidiwada, Sujathanagar, Sriharipuram, Simhachalam and Gopalapatnam ran out of their homes on their vehicles. Some walked for kilometres in search of a safer area. “We had planned to leave for Vizianagaram to stay with our relatives. But the police on the inter-district police stopped us. We had to return, but found the beach road a safer place. We stayed back and spent the night under the sky,” said Chandana, a resident of SR Puram. S Venkat Rao, another resident, said they had no found no place better than the beach road. “We did not have sleep. We kept roaming on the beach road to spend the night. There were many women and children strolling the beach. The cool sea breeze, however, was the solace,” he said. Visakhapatnam (West) MLA PGVR Naidu, who represents the area, said he personally alerted people to not panic. “It is not a fresh gas leak. A special team brought from Gujarat is engaged in the works of diluting the styrene vapour leak with para-tertiary butyl catechol to neutralise the impact of the styrene vapour,” Naidu told TOI. Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) road was blocked on Thursday night with residents of the affected areas trying to leave the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rumours-of-fresh-gas-leak-surface-at-night/articleshow/75635125.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||HC seeks reply on Rajasthan government permitting sale of liquor||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Friday sought a reply from the state government by May 12 in connection with the opening of liquor shops during lockdown. The petitioner has also been asked to give a copy of his public interest litigation (PIL) and all other documents to the advocate general’s office. The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice S K Sharma gave the interim direction on PIL of advocate Nikhilesh Katara on Friday. During the hearing, the applicant said the government opened liquor shops where social distancing was not being followed. The court asked the state government if it is possible to deploy an employee of the excise department at every liquor shop. To this the state government said that this is not possible due to lack of manpower. However, the state government claimed that they will take all the measures to ensure social distancing at liquor shops. The state government sought some time to file a detailed reply in this matter which was granted by the bench. The court fixed the hearing on May 12. In the petition, the chief secretary, additional chief secretary (home), joint secretary (excise) and commissioner of excise have been requested to ban the sale of liquor during lockdown. The petition stated that the state government on May 2 allowed the sale and procurement of liquor at the liquor shops which is a blatant violation of the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO) regarding Covid-19. The petitioner also suggested that there could be home delivery etc or other measures can be introduced to ensure social distancing while selling liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-reply-on-state-govt-permitting-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/75637093.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Salem||7 killed in 4 accidents in Krishnagiri||Krishnagiri: Seven people died and three others sustained injuries in four road accidents in Krishnagiri district on Friday. One accident took place near Kandikuppam on Chennai-Bengaluru national highway when three persons Vignesh, 28, Kuppan, 60 and Chennaiya Chetty, 70, of Kappalvadi near Burgur were hit by an unidentified vehicle while they were heading to Bengaluru on a bike. The trio succumbed to their injuries on the spot, a police officer said. All three were employed in a textile unit in Bengaluru, police said. The vehicle that caused the accident has not been traced yet.  Another accident occurred near Soolagiri whem a container truck headed towards Bengaluru from Chennai was hit by a speeding car, killing the truck driver A Munusamy, 35, of Tuticorin. His co-driver T Dinesh Kumar, 25, of Tiruvarur sustained severe injuries and died on his way to a hospital. The two were fixing a flat tyre of their vehicle when a speeding car rammed their truck from behind. Munusamy succumbed to his injuries on the spot while Dinesh Kumar succumbed to his injuries while on the way to the government hospital in Krishnagiri. Three people in the car managed to escape with minor injuries. In the third accident, K Mutharasan, 39 of Ambedkar Nagar in Kaveripattinam was killed after he hit a good carriers from behind. Mutharasan was a ration shop salesman and was heading to his work place on his bike. The goods carrier heading to Krishnagiri applied brakes all of a sudden. “Mutharasan, who did not expect this, rammed the vehicle from behind,” a police officer from Krishnagiri town police said, adding that, he succumbed to his injuries on the spot. In the fourth accident, P Kumar, 45, of Periyamuthur village, died near Kavaripattinam after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle. KRP dam police have registered a case and have initiated inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/7-killed-in-4-accidents-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/75637090.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Train coaches to double up as Covid care centres||PRAYAGRAJ: Pitching in with the nationwide efforts to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid1-19), North Central Railway has converted 130 train coaches into ‘Covid Care Centres’. The coaches will be used for treating mild cases which can be clinically assigned to these centres, as per guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family affairs (MoHFW). NCR’s chief public relations officer Ajeet Kumar Singh said, “These coaches are ready and can be used when the state has exhausted its facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases. As per the guidelines issued by MoHWF, these centres will be set up at three important stations of the NCR, which are Prayagraj Junction, Kanpur and Jhansi.” These railway stations are equipped with facilities for watering and charging Covid care rakes, he added. As per guidelines of MoHFW, state governments would send the requisition to Indian Railways (IR), who in turn will allocate these coaches to states and Union territories. After allocation, the trains will reach the allotted station. Wherever these trains go, facilities like watering, electricity, repairs, catering and security will be provided by IR. “Apart from this, IR could also provide its doctors and paramedical staff to treat novel coronavirus patients, if the need arises,” said the CPRO. Apart from these care centres, NCR has already created 6,51 quarantine beds and 100-bed Covid wards in its Central Hospital in Prayagraj and the Divisional Railway Hospital in Jhansi. In addition, based on written consent from concerned state governments, the first outgoing Shramik special train of NCR was operated on Friday from Aligarh to Purnea Junction, informed the CPRO. This train carried 1,282 students. By Friday midnight, NCR is expected to run 125 Shramik Special trains. “We would have brought about 20,000 migrants from UP and others who were stranded in various ciites through 17 terminating Shramik Special trains,” Singh added. NCR Prayagraj division’s public relations officer SK Gupta said that a Shramik Special from Vadodara would be arriving at Prayagraj Junction on May 9. The train which would be bringing not only migrant labours but also students, pilgrims of various districts of UP, would arrive around 4.30am. UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses would then ferry them to their respective districts. Meanwhile, three Shramik Special trains arrived at Kanpur, Fatehpur and Sonbhadra railway stations on Friday. The train at Kanpur arrived from Surat at 3.10pm, bringing 1,187 passengers. In Fatehpur, the train arrived from Surat at 2.20pm and brought 1,215 passengers. In Sonbhadra, the train arrived at the station around 8.45am from Mehsana, carrying 1,015 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/train-coaches-to-double-up-as-covid-care-centres/articleshow/75636783.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Opium, marijuana found in three trucks transporting ‘essentials’||NEW DELHI: The Narcotics Control Bureau seized three consignments of opium, marijuana and psychotropic drugs that were being smuggled in trucks transporting essentials like potatoes and onions during the lockdown. According to NCB’s zonal director KPS Malhotra, 60 kg of opium, 61,638 tablets of psychotropic drugs, 840 bottles of codeine-based cough syrup and 574 kg of marijuana were seized. The first seizure was made after a truck with Haryana registration number was intercepted. The truck was carrying potatoes fromHaryana to Jharkhand. However, on searching, a stash of opium was found under the driver’s seat. B Singh from Haryana, who owns and drives the truck, was arrested. In the second operation, a man from Patan, Gujara was arrested with psychotropic drugs after an informer tipped off the cops. These drugs cannot be sold by any medical store without a valid medical prescription from a registered medical practitioner. Such drugs usually come in illegal market by way of diversion from licit drug manufacturers, wholesalers or retails chemists, police said. In the third seizure, a truck from Odisha was intercepted on the basis of an input. A huge quantity of marijuana was seized that was hidden under a cargo of potato. The suspect is being interrogated for details of the cartel members. Police said the syndicate is spread across Gujarat, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opium-marijuana-found-in-three-trucks-transporting-essentials/articleshow/75637102.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kozhikode||152 NRIs reach Karipur in evac flight from Saudi Arabia||Malappuram: The first repatriation flight from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia landed at Karipur airport with 152 NRIs, including 84 pregnant women, at 8.05pm on Friday night. District administration informed that in addition to passengers from 13 districts, Flight AI-922 also brought passengers who are Karnataka (8) and Tamil Nadu (2) natives. Among those who landed were 22 children and five persons with medical conditions that need special care. The passengers are from Malappuram (48), Palakkad (10), Kozhikode (23), Wayanad (4), Alappuzha (3), Ernakulam (5), Idukki (3), Kannur (17), Kasaragod (2), Kollam (9), Kottayam (6), Pathanamthitta (7) and Thiruvananthapuram (2). There arrangements at the airport were elaborate and a gynaecologist and specially-trained staff nurses were additionally deployed with the medical team. Asymptomatic persons will be shifted to the Covid care centre at Safa Hospital in Kalikavu and those from other districts will be sent home in KSRTC buses. The 10 passengers from TN and Karnataka will be quarantined in isolation centres of Malappuram. On Thursday night, 182 persons had returned from the UAE in an AI Express flight from Dubai and 81 of them have been shifted to Covid care centres. Four with certain health issues were shifted to medical colleges in Manjeri and Kozhikode; 97 were sent home in taxis. Thirty-seven persons from Malappuram were shifted to isolation wards at Safa Hospital on Thursday night.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/152-nris-reach-karipur-in-evac-flight-from-saudi-arabia/articleshow/75635150.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Seven test positive in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Seven people who had returned to Bhavnagar from Mumbai tested positive for coronavirus infection on Friday. All are men aged between 19 to 21 years. All of them had valid passes to travel to Bhavnagar from Mumbai, but official sources said that all had symptoms of the virus. They were shifted to a government quarantine facility outside the city limit area. Their samples were collected in the morning and results arrived late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-test-positive-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75636309.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Women groups make masks, feed poor from savings||KANPUR: At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has led to halting all business and trade activities, some village women have found a source of income as well as a way tp serve the nation. These women who are also members of ‘Swayam Sahayata Samooh’ make masks, sell them to the government and distribute foods to poor and needy from their saving. As many as 28 Swayam Sahayata Samoohs are engaged in manufacturing mask in Kanpur district. They sell them to the government at the rate of Rs 13.60 per piece, said Ranu of Sen Paschim Para under Bidhnoo police circle and a member of one of the groups. Uma, a member of Saheli Samooh of Bidhnoo, said that she feeds needy with her earnings. “Recently, we handed over around 1,486 masks to the district supply officer”, she said. Mohni, a member of Happy Family Samooh, said that as poor villagers can not afford costly masks, therefore, she uses any fabric easily available for making masks. “We are facing some difficulty in getting fabric and thread”, she added. These masks are unique as they are not only low in cost, but are also reusable after wash. The district officials have given an order of around 7,000 masks to these samoohs which would be distributed among sanitary workers of Ghatampur town, gram panchayats, gram pradhans and villagers. Block development officer GP Gautam said, “The women of Swayam Sahayata Samooh are going a great job. Amit Bajpai, assistant director, said a plan has been chalked out to train the work force and future entrepreneurs in selected sectors.them in setting up their units, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/women-groups-make-masks-feed-poor-from-savings/articleshow/75636790.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 9, 2020||Amaravati||Telemedicine must for non-Covid ailments: Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the health department to equip the YSR Telemedicine programme to attend all non-coronavirus related ailments and non-emergencies. During a meeting with senior officials at his camp office on Friday, the chief minister directed them to ensure that medicines were being provided to patients within 24 hours of consultation with doctors from the telemedicine command control room. He also instructed the health department to procure bikes and thermo bags for doorstep delivery of medicines. “YSR Telemedicine should be able to address most minor ailments so that people do not have to go to PHCs or district hospitals,” he said, adding that setting up of village clinics should also be the health department’s priority for the next few months. The CM also took stock of the Covid-19 containment measures and told the officials to submit data of complaints received so far to assess public needs. He enquired about the preparedness of the administration to handle the rush of migrants and foreign returnees in the next few days and said that there should not be any compromise with regard to providing quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-telemedicine-must-for-non-covid-ailments/articleshow/75639019.cms||Samdani MN
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telemedicine must for non-Covid ailments: Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the health department to equip the YSR Telemedicine programme to attend all non-coronavirus related ailments and non-emergencies. During a meeting with senior officials at his camp office on Friday, the chief minister directed them to ensure that medicines were being provided to patients within 24 hours of consultation with doctors from the telemedicine command control room. He also instructed the health department to procure bikes and thermo bags for doorstep delivery of medicines. “YSR Telemedicine should be able to address most minor ailments so that people do not have to go to PHCs or district hospitals,” he said, adding that setting up of village clinics should also be the health department’s priority for the next few months. The CM also took stock of the Covid-19 containment measures and told the officials to submit data of complaints received so far to assess public needs. He enquired about the preparedness of the administration to handle the rush of migrants and foreign returnees in the next few days and said that there should not be any compromise with regard to providing quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cm-telemedicine-must-for-non-covid-ailments/articleshow/75635147.cms||Samdani MN
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Panic at Central railway hospital as 13-year-old girl found Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: Panic prevailed at the railway hospital in Ganpati Nagar when a 13-year-old daughter of a railway employee was found positive. What is more worrying is the fact that after almost 48 hours a staff working at the hospital was also found Covid-19 positive. Though railway authorities said they have sent almost 11 people, who were the primary contacts of the girl, to self-quarantine, there were unofficial reports that these staff members were on duty till Friday. It all started on May 6 when a girl, along with her parents, came to the hospital complaining of abdominal pain. “She was kept in general ward for two hours and was later shifted to Mahatma Gandhi hospital. I don’t think the railway hospital, so far, has followed the guidelines for Covid-19 patients. They should have prepared a list of those to be quarantined which were in primary contact with the girl. However, they have merely sent four people including some doctors and nurses to quarantine,” Mukesh Mathur, general secretary, north western railways employees union (NWREU), told TOI. He claimed that neither the hospital was sanitized nor the authorities worked to find out other employees who were in contact with the girl and her family prior to the day she was found positive. “I have met the chief medical director of the railway hospital and urged him to develop proper quarantine facilities and follow the SOPs in such cases. If needed we will meet and give a memorandum to the General Manager, NWR,” he added. He added that an employee of railway hospital Jaipur was also found positive. However, authorities maintained that SOPs are being followed and a list of 11 people has been prepared who were the primary contacts of the girl. “Doctors of NWR are monitoring the situation closely. Contact tracing of patient has been completed and the contacts have been advised for quarantine as per protocol,” claimed Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. However, sources claimed that some of the doctors and nurses who attended to the girl were working till 5pm on Friday. TOI attempted to call medial director M L Chaudhary of Central Hospital, Jaipur, to know the protocol followed and also if the railway authorities have given intimation in this regard to the state government, but he was unavailable. Manjusha Jain, divisional railway manager (DRM), Jaipur, said, “Our hospital is regularly being sanitised and we are following the required protocol. In this particular case, the CMD would be the right person to comment further. We did random sampling of natives of railway colony and also the report of parents of the girl was negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panic-at-central-railway-hosp-as-13-year-old-girl-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75637107.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal reports 130 fresh cases, 9 deaths on a day||Kolkata: With 130 people testing positive for Covid-19 over the past 24 hours, Bengal on Friday registered the highest single-day spike in fresh cases so far. Nine deaths due to Covid-19 were reported during the day. Friday’s fresh cases recorded a rise of 8.3%. The detections came from the 3,015 tests being carried out in the 15 functional labs over the past 24 hours, the highest so far, marking a quantum jump from the 2,611 tests a day earlier. Among the new cases, 63 are from Kolkata, accounting for a little less than 50% of Friday’s figure. The other cases are from three south Bengal districts of Howrah, North 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Deaths due to Covid-19 have also been on the rise, Friday’s toll being two more than Thursday’s seven. On Wednesday, five people had died, throwing up a rise in arithmetic progression. Bengal’s death toll has been 88, apart from the 72 deaths reported due to comorbidities. With 55 deaths due to Covid-19 and 52 due to comorbidities, Kolkata has registered the highest number, followed by Howrah, North 24 Parganas and Hooghly. The high number of fresh cases underline the rise that may take some more time to plateau. Going by the trend, Bengal has to increase the current treatment capacity of 8,570 Covid beds, though the infrastructure now looks comfortable, given the present occupancy rate of 14.48%. The bright side of this otherwise gloom is the rising rate of recovery; 27 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday. Bengal has made significant progress in ramping up Covid-19 tests, after a poor start two months ago in March, when a single lab carried out the examinations. The more tests are carried out, the more positive cases will be found, as is evident from the spike in detections. The increase in death figures, as witnessed across the country, will always be less than the total Covid positive cases. According to state officials, lower number of tests conducted during the first phase of lockdown in Bengal due to lack of infrastructure was the reason why the state displayed a high mortality rate, though it was actually far behind high the prevalence in states, such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat. The scene in Bengal displays a north-south divide. According to the state health department, there has been no fresh case in Kalimpong since April 2, in Jalpaiguri since April 1 and in Murshidabad since April 16. Although these districts can expect a slide in zone classification under the 21-day MHA guideline, state officials are keeping their fingers crossed, given that migrant workers from other states have now started returning home. Darjeeling has to wait for another three weeks to show any change in the status as the last case reported from this district was on May 4. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday urged citizens against going straight to laboratories for Covid-19 tests. “The Indian Council of Medical Research has issued a detailed protocol in this regard. Tests can be performed only on the recommendations of a registered medical practitioner, a government or private hospital,” Bandyopadhyay had said the day before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-reports-130-fresh-cases-9-deaths-on-a-day/articleshow/75636317.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||320 migrant labourers leave for Rajasthan free of cost by 13 buses||KANPUR: The district administration officials sent back as many as 320 migrant labourers to Rajasthan by 13 buses from the Jhakarkati inter-state bus terminal here on Thursday. Before allowing the migrants to board buses, the officials recorded their names, addresses and their contact numbers. They also put quarantine seal after their medical checkup. The migrant labourers, which included women and their children, who could not leave the city earlier for the native places due to the lockdown , reached the bus terminus in the morning where the health department teams recorded their names, addresses and contact number and medically examined them. They also gave lunch packets and water bottles to the migrants.  The buses left the city at 12 noon. All the buses were earlier sanitized and their drivers were instructed not to stop their vehicles at any crowded areas. ADM (second) Amit Kumar Rathore who had supervised the arrangement at the bus terminus, said that all passengers were scanned, and lunch packets and drinking water bottles were given to them. The roadways have not charged any money from them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/320-migrant-labourers-leave-for-raj-free-of-cost-by-13-buses/articleshow/75612249.cms||Anant Chandak
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Top panchayati raj official’s wings clipped||JAIPUR: In a move that seeks to dilute certain administrative powers of panchayati raj department’s special secretary Arushi Malik, additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj department Rajeshwar Singh has issued an order stating that all files pertaining to monitoring and implementation of central and state government-run panchayati raj schemes must be sent directly to him and not through the special secretary. The special secretary has also been asked not to hold any meeting or video conference or participate in any of the meetings/vc related to these schemes. The file pertaining to this has been sent to Chief Secretary D B Gupta, who will hear both the sides. It is likely that Malik could be transferred to some other department, said sources. “At this point, since there is no secretary posted in the panchayati raj department, the files were routed through the special secretary and director of the department. However, the result of this has been completely unsatisfactory. Especially, implementation and monitoring of various central and state government-run schemes on the ground has been miserable,” read the order issued by the ACS. “Delay in clearing files pertaining to these schemes at the level of the special secretary, state of indecision on the files, not replying to the queries on these files, being unavailable on the phone and at office most of the times and misbehaving with senior officials and subordinates are the reasons for this,” it added. “In order to ensure smooth implementation of the schemes and to achieve the set target, it has been decided that all files pertaining to central and state government-run schemes like - FFC, SFC, construction of PRI Bhawan, Ambedkar bhawan and Kisan Seva Kendra, Janata Jal Yojana, Rajiv Gandhi Seva Kendra, gram panchayat development scheme, Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan, village master plan, decentralised participatory planning, Mukhya Mantri Grameen BPL Awas Yojana, Swamitva scheme and other central and state-run schemes - must be sent by the officer in charge directly to the ACS instead of sending it through the special secretary,” the order added. “This will ensure effective implementation of the schemes and so that the expected progress can be achieved. The special secretary shall neither hold any meeting or video conference related to the schemes, nor participate in any of the meetings/VC. Also, can’t write letters related to the schemes,” it further added. According to sources in the department, delay in clearing the files pertaining to promotion of the engineers in the rural development and panchayati raj department was the tipping point in the case. In another order, joint secretary (II) and deputy commissioner Gaurav Chaturvedi has given all charges of engineers’ establishment, which was earlier held by additional commissioner and joint secretary (III) Prem Singh Charan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/top-panchayati-raj-officials-wings-clipped/articleshow/75637099.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||10 Covid-19 patients in Bareilly division discharged from hospital||BAREILLY: Ten people who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 across the district were discharged from hospital over the past two days. Of them, eight are from Budaun and one each from Bareilly and Pilibhit. The patients from Budaun were discharged on Thursday while those from Bareilly and Pilibhit were released on Friday night. Also on Friday, officials declared Faridpur is no longer a hotspot. According to officials, all eight patients from Budaun were being treated at the community health centre (CHC) in Bithri Chainpur, which has been designated a Covid-19 Level-1 hospital for Bareilly district. The lone Bareilly patient who was released, a 28-year-old woman from Faridpur town, and the lone Pilibhit patient, 24-year-old youth, were being treated at private hospitals, which have been designated a Covid-19 Level-2 hospital. The woman, who gave birth to a baby at a private hospital in Rampur Garden of Bareilly, was found Covid-19 positive in a test carried out at a private laboratory. The Pilibhit youth underwent surgery at a private hospital on Pilibhit bypass of Bareilly, after he met with an accident. He too was found Covid-19 positive by the same private laboratory. Both patients had no travel history and their families claimed they had not come in contact with any positive case. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “On Friday, 106 samples, including the Faridpur woman and Pilibhit youth, were tested and found Covid-19 negative. As the last two have tested negative in three consecutive tests done in the government laboratory at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, they were discharged. With this, Faridpur will be removed from the list of hotspots from Saturday, and we will discontinue active case search there. Family members of both will also be discharged from quarantine. Even the two private hospitals where they had been admitted earlier, will be allowed to resume their out-patient department (OPD) service from Saturday.” Budaun chief medical officer Dr Yashpal Singh said, “In Budaun, 26 samples were found negative on Friday.” In Bareilly division, six active cases of Covid-19 are currently under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-covid-19-patients-in-bareilly-division-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75633792.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Over 100 shifted to village quarantine centres: Ludhiana deputy commissioner||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that more than 100 persons have been sent to quarantine centres set up in their respective villages from the isolation centre set up at Meritorious School here. Upon reaching their villages, these people would remain in quarantine in their own villages. So far, out of 282 persons, 100 persons have been shifted to quarantine centres in their respective villages, while 22 students who had returned from Kota (Rajasthan) are under quarantine at Parker House, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), here. He said, “At present, only 102 persons are left in the Isolation Centre at Meritorious School here.” Agrawal said the persons who have been shifted to the quarantine centres had tested negative for novel coronavirus (Covid-19), and said the samples of those persons had come out negative. “They were now being shifted to their respective villages to complete their 14-day quarantine, so that they remain mentally and emotionally strong, as they will be close to their family members now.” The deputy commissioner informed that best quality hygienic food was being provided to persons staying at the isolation centres. He said that to wash the laundry of the isolation centre, a new machine had also been installed that would be used to wash bedsheets and other clothes on a daily basis. It is pertinent to mention that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had ordered that people returning from other states would be quarantined for 14 days in government isolation centres. He had also directed officials to identify buildings or schools in villages in consultation with the sarpanches. The chief minister has also appealed to panchayats and sarpanches to increase vigil in their respective areas to check the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-100-shifted-to-village-quarantine-centres-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/articleshow/75638698.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||Cured of Covid, man won’t leave without positive wife||Vadodara: Most may want to get discharged from a hospital as soon as possible, particularly if they are suffering with coronavirus infection. But Aspak Yusuf Khalpa, a 30-year-old coronavirus patient, tested negative for coronavirus a few days ago and yet refuses to get discharged from the Chhota Udepur hospital. His wife Sayma (24) is still under treatment in the hospital and he doesn’t want to leave her alone. “Aspak’s reports tested negative and his wife’s report was positive. So he refused to take discharge,” said chief district health officer Dr Mahesh Chaudhary. “Later his wife tested negative twice, so she was discharged on Thursday, but then we had to test Aspak again before discharge as per the protocol,” Chaudhary added. Aspak’s tests were conducted which turned out to be negative and he was allowed to leave on Friday. “I wanted to be with Sayma as her reports were positive. It was easy to follow social distancing norms as there were just three patients in the isolation ward and I had my mask on all the time,” Aspak told TOI. The couple, living in Chhota Udepur town, was admitted to the hospital from government quarantine facility on April 24 after they tested positive for the virus. They had reportedly contracted the virus from one of their family members, Irshad Khalpa. With Aspak getting discharged on Friday, only one patient – Uzair Ranger – remains under treatment now as his consecutive tests have been positive. Health officials in the district counselled him to consume more fluids and not to skip any medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cured-of-covid-man-wont-leave-without-positive-wife/articleshow/75634312.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 9, 2020||Surat||Mahatma’s great grandson’s wife dies||Surat: Shivalaxmi Gandhi, wife of Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson late Kanubhai Gandhi, died at a private hospital in Surat late on Thursday night. She was 95. Her husband Kanubhai had died in 2016. The couple didn’t have any children. According to sources, Shivalaxmi was living in Bhimrad village of Surat for the past two years. A few weeks ago, she fell down in her room and was bedridden eversince. Gandhi was also suffering from age-related complications for many years now. After the accident, she was shifted to a hospital in Piplod area of Surat city last week after her health deteriorated further. She breathed her last on Thursday night. Gandhi’s final rites were performed on Friday by her close associates in Bhimrad village. Kanubhai Gandhi was the son of Ramdas, the third son of Mahatma Gandhi. Kanubhai was a scientist with NASA in the US and had returned along with wife Shivalakshmi to India in 2013. Aftwer returning to India, the couple first stayed in Delhi before they shifted base to Bangalore. Later they returned to their home state Gujarat in 2014 and stayed in different Ashrams including an oldage home in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mahatmas-great-grandsons-wife-dies/articleshow/75636145.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Vehicle with 100 cartons of spurious ghee seized||JAISALMER: Pokhran police on Friday seized a pick-up vehicle during barricading and recovered 100 cartons of spurious ghee. The ghee was being supplied to be sold for Rs 245-250 per kg. The samples of ghee have been sent to FSL. Police have taken two persons in custody. After supplying 170 cartons, these 100 cartons were being taken to be supplied in Sriganganagar-Bikaner area. SP Kiran Kung said to stop infection of coronavirus, police force is deployed at various check-posts and during patrolling by SHO Surendra Kumar’s team, a pick-up was searched. Police found 100 cartons of ghee. She said the vehicle was seized under Section 207 of MV Act. The ghee was being brought rom Rajpurohit Dairy, Ladpura Road, Ghughra in Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vehicle-with-100-cartons-of-spurious-ghee-seized/articleshow/75637121.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Hundreds throng Mangaluru station on fake news of migrant train||MANGALURU: Bandra, Majestic and now Mangaluru railway station. Misled by fake forwards on social media that trains were being run to take them home, more than 800 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam and Bihar gathered at the station on Thursday and held protests after their hopes were dashed. Labourers from Kuloor, Kunjathbail, Nanthoor, Surathkal and other places in the city began arriving at the railway station as early as 6.30am after receiving “messages” on their mobile phones that the government would run trains on Friday to take them home. Most of those who gathered are construction and daily-wage labourers, who have lost their jobs in the Covid-19 lockdown and are running out of cash and food. “We have no work and no money to buy food or pay rent. How long can we stay here like this,” said a labourer. Tempers began to rise as police arrived and asked them to return as no trains were being operated. Policemen tried to arrest one of the labourers who got into an altercation with them and this riled the others. Angry and disappointed, they held a dharna demanding to be sent home. Some of them had managed to carry posters with slogans as well. Social distancing was abandoned as the workers sat together and some had no masks on either. Railway officials and district authorities arrived soon after and assured the workers that their issues of rent and food would be sorted out. Police promised to crack down on employers who had sacked them due to the lockdown but to no avail. City police commissioner PS Harsha, deputy commissioners Lakshmi Ganesh and Arunamshu Giri and assistant commissioner Madan Mohan finally stepped in and assured them their grievances would be redressed. Railway officials said no Shramik trains were running from Mangaluru and they would be informed if any service started in the future. “You have waited for so many days, please wait for a few more days. We will send you back to your villages once arrangements are made. And we will inform you about the details of your journey within three days,” Harsha appealed to the labourers. After nearly two hours of protest, the labourers relented and left for their camps. Soon after the ruckus at the station, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel appealed to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and MoS for railways Suresh Angadi to make arrangements for trains to operate from Mangaluru to send back all stranded labourers. “There are nearly 3,500 labourers from various parts of the country stranded in Mangaluru due to the lockdown. All of them are eager to go back to their native places and they have already registered with the Seva Sindhu portal of the Karnataka government to travel outside the state. However, they have no transport facilities. Hence, railways should arrange train services immediately,” Kateel wrote to the ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hundreds-throng-mluru-station-on-fake-news-of-migrant-train/articleshow/75633805.cms||Vinobha K T
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Drop in pollution level leads to weather changes||KANPUR: The city has been experiencing unprecedented weather changes with duststorm, thunderstorm, rainfall and hailstorm. In past days, the region witnessed showers along with thunderstorm atleast once in a week keeping the day temperature much below the normal value. The change is attributed to the reduced pollution due to less vehicular movement and closure of most of the factories in the city which used to one of the most polluted cities of the country. Agrometerologist at CSA University, Prof Naushad Khan told TOI that the change in weather was caused due to almost nil pollution following lockdown. The day and night temperature have been recorded below the normal value due to less pollution, he said. Prof Khan said that the day temperature on May 6 was 34 degrees, 5.6 degrees below normal value while night temperature was 3.7 degrees below normal and on Thursday day temperature was 6.8 degrees below normal value. While May used to be the hottest month, the weather this year is less hot and is pleasant, he said. On May 1, maximum temperature was about eight degrees below normal value while on May 2 it was 6.8 degrees below normal while on Thursday, maximum temperature was 6.8 degree celsius below normal mark. April, which otherwise receives about 4-5 mm of rainfall, this year received about 32 mm of rains, much more than the average rainfall. Similarly, on May 1, city got 7 mm of rain and again 4.4 mm of rainfall on May 4 along with dust-storm and thunderstorm. The city also witnessed rainfall on May 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/drop-in-pollution-level-leads-to-weather-changes/articleshow/75636820.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Women lead protests for closure of Tasmac shops||Madurai/Trichy: A day after political parties and anti-liquor activists registered their protest against the reopening of Tasmac wine shops, protests by the general public, led mostly by women, erupted at several places in the state on Friday demanding closure of the outlets. At Meenatchipuram in Madurai, as many as 40 people along with CPM members staged a protest in front of a Tasmac outlet. A police team which arrived at the spot started forcibly removing the protesters leading to a mild scuffle. They picked up nearly 20 men and took them to a marriage hall nearby while chasing away the women. Though the outlet was briefly opened after the police officials cleared the people, the shop was closed subsequently. Similar protests were reported at K Pudur, S S Colony and Tallakulam police limits in Madurai city and Kadupatti and Melavalavu police limits in the district. In Trichy, a group of residents at Azhagiripuram near Thiruvanaikovil protested against two liquor outlets. The women said the reopening of wine shops had disrupted the peace in their families. “Our livelihood depends on the income from washing clothes and we had no business for the past 40 days. Our men had almost kicked the habit when they are tempted to drink again now," says M Bhuvaneswari, a protester at Azhagiripuram.Another woman, R Lakshmi, says, "He was calm for the 40 days. As soon as the shop opened, he got his booze. As I questioned him, he ransacked our house and beat me up," she said. During the protests, the women even poured the PDS rice distributed to them on the road citing its inferior quality. Officials of Tasmac, revenue department and the police tried to pacify them but the protestors stood firm. Finally, a peace committee meeting was convened and it was agreed to shift the two shops in one month but until then they would function. Ariyalur, the women of Kotiyal village protested by carrying black umbrellas demanding the closure of a wine shop. The police tried to convince them as tipplers were waiting in the queue. As the women stood firm, the officials agreed to close the shop on Friday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/women-lead-protests-for-closure-of-tasmac-shops/articleshow/75637110.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||11 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in Sambhal, Moradabad and Rampur||BAREILLY: After a gap of five days as many as 11 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Sambhal, Moradabad and Rampur districts on Friday. Health officials said that all five cases in Sambhal are of those who had recently arrived from Delhi. In Moradabad, among four fresh Covid-19 positive cases, one is a milkman who runs a dairy near Maqbara Chowki. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anita Singh said that it was the first time when any coronavirus positive case was reported from the district's Gunnaur area. “On May 2, some labourers working at Azadpur mandi in Delhi had arrived here. They are residents of different villages in Gunnaur sub-division. All the migrant workers have already been shifted to quarantine centres as soon as they arrived here and their samples were sent for examination. Today after the report arrived, five of them were tested positive for the virus,” the CMO added. Individuals who tested positive include two of Tarfari village and three of Mehua village. The health department officials said that after five new cases, the tally in Sambhal has reached 29. As many as eight patients have been discharged while one had succumbed to the deadly disease. Currently, there are 20 active cases in the district. On the other hand, Moradabad CMO Dr MC Garg said that two samples were repeated and they again tested positive while four new cases have taken the tally to 120. According to district magistrate RK Singh, as many as 88 patients have been discharged after successfully completing their quarantine and being tested negative, while five persons died due to Novel coronavirus in Moradabad. Currently, 27 positive cases are there in Moradabad. “Among the new cases, a woman resident of Mugalpura and three men from Galshaheed and Maqbara areas have tested positive. All three areas are hotspots,” the CMO said. In Rampur, two migrant workers who had come back from Ahmedabad on May 3 have tested positive. Rampur CMO Dr Subodh Sharma said that five youths of Pipalsana village and Asara colony, working in Gujarat, had returned home. They were placed under quarantine. “Pipalsana resident, 20, and Asara resident, 26, have tested positive for the virus. Their reports came in on Friday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/11-fresh-covid-ve-cases-reported-in-sambhal-moradabad-rampur/articleshow/75633806.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 9, 2020||Goa||Construction of military warships restarts at Goa Shipyard||PANAJI: Construction of military warships at Goa Shipyard Limited has picked up pace with lockdown restrictions being lifted even though raw material supply and key equipment deliveries remain hampered due to a breakdown in global supply chain, said GSL chairman and managing director Bharat Bhushan Nagpal. Keeping the underlying threat posed by the Covid-19, GSL has put in place measures for minimal interaction at the defence shipyard. “Production activities are gradually picking up pace and the manpower strength is being increased in phased manner. The current Covid-19 situation has affected the supply chain and availability of original equipment manufacturers from other states. However, GSL is confident to overcome the constraints by taking various innovative measures to meet the stringent project timelines,” said Nagpal. At present, GSL is executing important projects for the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard, which are in various stages of completion. Ship production activities at GSL restarted on May 4, after coming to a complete halt on March 22 due to the lockdown ordered by the state and Centre. “Before resuming production activities, GSL has taken various measures as per MHA guidelines to minimise risk of spread of Covid-19 in the yard. All the personnel are being screened at the entry gates by the health wardens deputed by the company,” the company said in a statement. GSL has made compulsory the use of face masks and vehicles are being sanitised before entry to the yard. Hands-free sanitiser dispensing units have been placed at various locations and personnel are encouraged to use them frequently, said the statement. The shipyard has also started working in two shifts to eliminate crowding at work place and no visitors are being permitted inside the yard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/construction-of-military-warships-restarts-at-goa-shipyard/articleshow/75638533.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 9, 2020||Madurai||PMK functionary moves HC against govt decision||Madurai: PMK functionary moved Madras high court challenging the state government’s decision to reopen the tasmac shops in the state. In his petition, C Selvakumar, a resident of Madurai, said that the state government’s decision of reopening the tasmac outlets in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic would completely defeat the purpose of imposing lockdown for the containment of Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pmk-functionary-moves-hc-against-govt-decision/articleshow/75637139.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad cops make couple’s 50th marriage anniv special||Bareilly: With the lockdown in place, policemen have started performing tasks beyond the call of duty. On Friday, an elderly couple in Moradabad was pleasantly surprised when they opened their front door and found a group of police personnel, with garlands, a cake and sweets to wish them on their 50th marriage anniversary.The couple, Sushma and Suresh Chandra Agarwal, reside in Lohagarh street under Kotwali station limits. After wishing the Agarwals on their 50th marriage anniversary, the policemen garlanded them, showered them with rose petals and also offered them a cake and sweets. Breaking the suspense on why they were there, policemen said they were informed by Agarwals' only son, Anuj, who lives in Noida, that he would not be able to come to celebrate his parents’ marriage anniversary due to lockdown. So he sought help from police to celebrate the day on his behalf.Later, officiating station house officer Shakti Singh said Anuj, an engineer by profession, had called them over the mobile phone and requested them to greet his parents on their anniversary. “Anuj told us that he had planned to make the golden jubilee of his parents’ wedding anniversary memorable but the lockdown spoiled his plan. Then, he thought of enlisting help from local police. He requested us wish his parents so that they could always remember the day," the officiating SHO said. Accepting Anuj’s request, Singh led his team to the Agrawals' house. The team comprised sub inspector Sandeep Kumar and other colleagues.As for the Agarwals, the gesture by policemen deeply touched them for making their anniversary a memorable one.“I have no words to say thanks to Inspector Singh and his team, We will never forget their gesture. During these hard times, they took time out for us. We have witnessed a new and caring avatar of the police force," the elderly couple said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-cops-make-couples-50th-marriage-anniv-special/articleshow/75633843.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air loses out to partial freedom||NEW DELHI: The average PM2.5 concentration in the city fell by around 31% and NO2 levels by 33% in the month-long full lockdown period between March 24 and April 25, data analysed by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) shows. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, with the restrictions relaxed from May 4, the average NO2 levels have already risen by around 22%, despite reduced traffic on the roads. The SAFAR analysis considered data for both PM2.5 and NO2 for four cities — Delhi, Pune, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Delhi recorded the lowest overall reduction, but experts said this could also be due to the influence of dust. The capital recorded a sustained dusty spell during the lockdown period. The lockdown data was compared with a one-month period from February 20 to March 20. An analysis carried out this week by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed that all gains were already being lost with an increase in vehicles on the roads. During lockdown 3.0, vehicles are allowed between 7am and 7pm, while both private and public offices can function with 33% staff. CSE’s analysis shows a spike of 22% in NO2 levels, which is directly related to vehicles. “We tracked hourly and weekly change in NO2 levels between the second and third phases of the lockdown to find out the influence of traffic on air quality. The change in 24-hour or daily average between the two weeks shows that the overall weekly average level increased by 22%. This change has occurred even when traffic is still limited,” said the CSE analysis. Station-wise, the steepest increase between the weekly average this week compared with last week was noted at Sri Aurobindo Marg (85%), Karni Singh Shooting Range (79%), Lodhi Road (56%) and RK Puram (56%) — all located on arterial roads. CSE’s Anumita Roy Chowdhury said the lockdown period allowed analysis of the rise and fall in pollution levels in each sector more closely, particularly NO2 in relation to vehicles. “Dust has impacted the overall air quality, but vehicles are linked closely to NO2. A partial return has led to such a spike. Once the roads are choked again, it will be far worse,” she added, while highlighting the importance of a strong public transport system. The return of activities also reflected on Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index, which spiked from 94 (satisfactory) on Monday, the first day of relaxations, to 134 (moderate) on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-air-loses-out-to-partial-freedom/articleshow/75637145.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||Five migrant labourers jump off moving train in UP's Shahjahanpur, quarantined||Bareilly: Five migrant labourers, who had boarded the Shramik special train in Punjab’s Amritsar, were detained by the Government Railway Police and later quarantined in Shahjahanpur on Friday morning after they jumped off the moving train. The labourers, all residents of Khudaganj area of Shahjahanpur district, had jumped off the moving train at Roza railway station as the train slowed down to change the track. The labourers later told GRP that the superfast train was going to Gonda while they were under the impression that the train would halt at either Bareilly or Shahjahanpur railway stations. They had reportedly undergone health check-ups in Amritsar before boarding the train. Since they had the journey tickets and were given misinformation by someone in Amritsar, police dropped the idea of filing any complaint. They were identified as Arvind Singh (37), his cousins Munendra Singh (28), Sethpal, Dharmendra and Sonu. Roza police station house officer Ashok Pal told TOI, “Railway police had handed over the migrant labourers to us and we didn’t find any reason to penalise them as they were misinformed that the train would stop at Bareilly. They jumped off the running train but escaped any injury as it was moving at a slow pace.” Meanwhile, additional director general of police (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandra has ordered policemen to look for migrant labourers walking on the railway tracks and provide them possible support to ensure that they reach their destination safely. “I have instructed the officials to ensure that regular patrolling is done on railway tracks. If they find migrant labourers walking on tracks, they should help them. I have also told policemen not to misbehave with any migrant labourer. Buses are being provided to them and labourers from other states are being dropped at the states’ borders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-migrant-labourers-jump-off-moving-train-in-ups-shahjahanpur-quarantined/articleshow/75633855.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: BPL cardholders to get PDS rice home-delivered||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the civil supplies department to launch doorstep delivery of rice through the Public Distribution System (PDS) from September 1. The department presented models of delivery vehicles and delivery bags to the chief minister for approval on Friday. The vehicles will be attached to village and ward secretariats from where volunteers would deliver rice to the homes of Below Poverty Line (BPL) cardholders. The state government had tested doorstep delivery of rice as a pilot project in Srikakulam district six months ago and collected feedback from locals. “We have readied a comprehensive action plan to launch the programme across the state from September,” said civil supplies commissioner, Kona Sasidhar. Sasidhar said 13,370 mobile units equipped with electronic weighing machines would be procured. Sealed rice bags will be opened in front of the beneficiary and the specified quota of rice would be delivered to the beneficiary in a separate bag, Sasidhar said. All rice bags will be transported from godowns and have barcodes to prevent tampering and adulteration. Around 2.3 lakh metric tonnes of rice will be delivered to cardholders every month, added Sasidhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bpl-cardholders-to-get-pds-rice-home-delivered/articleshow/75635200.cms||Samdani MN
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Despite rail connect, migrants forced to reach Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The presence of rail connectivity in four of the Marathwada districts, namely Jalna, Nanded, Parbhani and Latur, has not helped migrant workers in these areas. They are being made to board the Shramik special trains from Aurangabad city, which is hundreds of kilometers away for some. On Thursday, many migrants from different parts of Marathwada could reach Aurangabad to board a train for Bhopal after facing numerous difficulties related to transportation. Railway activists have blamed government authorities for the deaths of migrant workers on Friday. “While our demand for arranging special trains for stranded migrant workers remained unheard for long, the steps taken later were ill-planned. Instead of a single pick-up point at Aurangabad, the government authorities could have easily picked up workers from four Marathwada districts which lie on the rail route,” veteran railway activist Omprakash Varma said. When contacted, Aurangabad deputy divisional commissioner Parag Soman said pick-up point for Shramik special train was kept only at Aurangabad with a view to avoid passenger movement other than target groups. “We had issued order to all eight district collectors from Marathwada for facilitating smooth movement of stranded workers. A major chunk of stranded migrants is from Aurangabad and therefore train was planned from here. Migrants from other districts of the region were expected to take help from the respective district administration for reaching Aurangabad,” he said. Soman added that the strategy for the movement of migrant workers would be reviewed by holding discussion with all district collectors from Marathwada in the wake of accident. Railway activists also suggested that coaches in proportion of stranded workers can be added at every railway station instead of running the Shramik special train with full composition since beginning. The South Central Railways (SCR) has distanced itself from the issues related to boarding of special train, saying that the entire planning related to Shramik special trains is carried out by the state government with the help of respective district administrations. “At our end, a high-level inquiry headed by Commissioner of Railway Safety for South Central Circle has been ordered to investigate the specific incident (near Jalna) and arrive at the cause. Union Minister of Railways Piysh Goyal is closely monitoring the situation and is being briefed on the steps taken,” chief public relations officer of SCR Ch Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/despite-rail-connect-migrants-forced-to-reach-aurangabad/articleshow/75635203.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Can’t deny statutory bail to robber citing SC order, says HC||Madurai: Chain-snatcher Settu, son of Govindaraj, in jail since January 19, would never have imagined his innocuous bail petition would prompt Madras high court to write a treatise on personal liberty and how the court would reject police attempts to deny him bail by citing a recent order of the Supreme Court. Arrested by Vallam police for robbing a woman at knife-point, Settu faced two charges under Section 392 carrying maximum imprisonment of 10 years, and Section 397 that carries seven-year jail term. Police have to file the chargesheet within a maximum of 90 days, or else Settu will be eligible for bail by default. Settu will complete 90 days in custody on May 18. When his bail petition came up before Justice G R Swaminathan in Madurai bench of the court, the prosecution cited a March 23 order of the Supreme Court, issued suo motu in view of the lockdown and closure of courts. The apex court had given an omnibus relief to all cases facing limitation and deadlines, and said those deadlines would stand extended with effect from March 15 until further orders. Citing this extension of limitation period, prosecution opposed bail for Settu saying the failure to file chargesheet within the mandatory 90-day period will not end in default bail for Settu, for extension of time given by the apex court would apply for filing final reports too. Justice Swaminathan, rejecting the submission, said denial of compulsive bail to him will definitely amount to violation of his fundamental right. The noble object of the Supreme Court's direction and its benevolence was to ensure that litigants do not lose their rights due to lockdown. “But, filing of final report stands on a different footing altogether,” he said, adding that the apex court did not mention that police investigations would also be covered by its order. Prosecution is not justified in citing closure of the courts and the general extension of the limitation period for failure to file chargesheet, said Justice Swaminathan, adding that as per Section 167 (2A) when judicial magistrate is not available for a short period, even executive magistrate may pass detention orders. “In this case, nothing stopped police from formally presenting the final report before the stipulated date and getting the initial of the jurisdictional magistrate,” said the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cant-deny-statutory-bail-to-robber-citing-sc-order-says-hc/articleshow/75637125.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Government plans virtual job exchange for Rajasthan migrant workers, industry||JAIPUR: The industry may be fretting over the loss of workers as they restart their factories, but the reality does not seem to be as scary, especially in case of unskilled and semi-skilled labour. If close to 95,000 workers have left the state, 2.97 lakh have returned, as of Friday. That’s not all. Labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said about 12.58 lakh jobless youth have registered on the employment exchange and there are 1.6 lakh who are getting unemployment allowance of Rs 3,000 per month. “We have data of 23.44 lakh unskilled workers who can be engaged in construction activities. They can be absorbed in real estate and cement industries. Besides, over two lakh youths have taken training from RSLDC in the past few years and there are many ITI passouts whose contact numbers are also with us,” Pawan added. But currently, there is no unified platform where the industry can reach the workers, who have come from other states. “The fact that Rajasthan is a net exporter of labour should give relief to the industry in the state. The challenge is to connect the workers with the industry. RIICO and labour department is working on a virtual exchange that will bridge the gap,” said Ashutosh Pednekar, managing director of RIICO at a webinar organised by FICCI. The labour secretary said they have the contact numbers of people who have returned, but information about their previous job profile, skill sets or absence of it and location will be required to match the needs of the industry. “We will collect the workers’ data and requirement of the industry and put them on the virtual exchange. This will help both find their matches,” Pawan said. Pednekar said if some workers need small duration reskilling to meet the requirements of any particular industry, there are number of training institutes both government and private and schemes, and government support is also available. Most of the workers who have returned to the state are expected to be unskilled and semi-skilled as trained skilled workers have some comfort of stability and employers are also trying to hold them back. Rajiv Arora, a jeweller and president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, said their industry is dependent on skilled workers and their absence will hinder restarting operations. “One is immediate replacement of unskilled or semi-skilled labour which can be mobilized. In the medium term, we can certainly build capacity to train so that the industry gets skilled labour as well,” added Pednekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-virtual-job-exchange-for-raj-migrant-workers-industry/articleshow/75637134.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Pre-dawn tragedy due to lack of periodic checks?||Amaravati: The lack of periodic safety inspections in factories has resulted in frequent mishaps in industrial units. The pollution control board (PCB), which gives permission through a two-stage verification process, has not put a mechanism in place to conduct regular inspections once an industrial unit becomes operational. Further, various heads of departments who oversee enforcement of laws seem to have ignored safety manuals in industrial units leading to accidents of the kind that took place on Thursday. Sources say that the state government had directed district collectors to constitute committees with senior officials from industries, factories, boilers, labour and electricity departments to inspect major industries before they open after the lockdown. The district administrations allegedly took light of the instructions leading to the major mishap in Visakhapatnam. Speaking to TOI, professor C Ramachandraiah of Centre for Economics and Social Studies (CESS) said, “Big industrial units, particularly MNCs, don’t obey environmental safeguards due to various reasons such as political interference and corruption. It is difficult to make them fall in line unless bodies like PCB are truly autonomous and independent.” Ramachandraiah suggested that member secretary of PCBs in all states should be appointed by the Centre. “It is difficult to expect an officer (PCB member convenor) appointed by the state government go against the wishes of the ruling party in the state,” Ramachandraiah, who has been a member of several PCBs in the past, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pre-dawn-tragedy-due-to-lack-of-periodic-checks/articleshow/75635186.cms||Samdani MN
May 9, 2020||Surat||SC relief for Odiya migrants, spl trains to run again today||Surat: In a major relief to thousands of Odiya migrants, the district administration has decided to resume movement of the shramik special trains from Saturday. The decision follows Supreme Court staying the Odisha high court’s order on Friday, while directing the migrants returning to their homestate to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Talking with TOI, district collector Dhaval Patel said, “The movement of special trains from Surat to Odisha will resume from Saturday. We have communicated to the WR authorities to arrange for trains to that state.” Following the HC order on Wednesday, the district administration had suspended movement of the trains. Accordingly, about three trains which were booked by the Western Railway (WR) from Surat to Jagganathpur and Brahmapur were cancelled on Thursday. Since the start of the special trains from May 2, about 16 trains have left from Surat to Odisha carrying 19,300 people so far. On Friday, Odiya migrants thronged the Covid-19 hospital at New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus for the test. Serpentine queues were witnessed till late in the evening. Surat Odiya Welfare Association VP, Bhagirath Behara said, “The entire community in Surat is elated. We expect three trains to run towards Brahmapur on Saturday.” Behara added that they have raised demands for trains to other two destinations too, including Bhubaneshwar and Jajpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sc-relief-for-odiya-migrants-spl-trains-to-run-again-today/articleshow/75636409.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools reduce bus, lab and library fees||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have suspended or offered concessions in school bus, laboratory charges, library fees, optional computer training and other student-based activities that are payable. Some school administrators and principals are planning to take a call next month on whether these fees should be charged for the lockdown period, if classes continue to remain suspended. At South Point High School, spokesperson Krishna Damani pointed out that they have kept the bus fee payment at abeyance along with other optional activities. “The school offers multiple student based games and individual recreational activities like Abacus training and Saturday Activity Club. We have suspended the collection of those fees. However, an adhoc amount as fee has been received,” said Damani. Many schools are offering a discounted bus fee. The principal of a CBSE affiliated school on the EM Bypass added that the school runs 11 buses, which commute as far as Batanagar. “We have reduced the bus fee by 30%-40% since the students are not using the service at the moment. However, keeping in mind the cost of fitness certificates, road tax which have to be paid along with the salary of drivers and other staffers, we can’t stop the collection of school bus fee. Around 1,100 students avail the school bus service,” she said. Indus Valley World School, in a circular to the parents, has informed them that the bus fees will be reduced by 30% for the quarter of April to June 2020. The school has also assured parents who have made excess payments that it will be adjusted or refunded in the next quarter. “The school has 32 buses which are availed by around 45% students,” said principal Anita George. Birla High School at both its branches have done away with the charges for computer fee, laboratory fee and extracurricular activities. Combining the three heads, parents would have to spend anything up to Rs 3,000 in a quarter. We have suspended the collection of these fees. Also, in the Mukundapur branch, the school has offered a 30% discount on the school bus fee for the first quarter till June 2020, from April onwards. “We have introduced the above measures to give relief to the parents and also on humanitarian ground. The facilities like computer, air-conditions, electricity is not utilized during the lockdown. So, we will not collect the fee apart from the compulsory ones like the tuition fee,” said Mukta Nain, director of the Birla High Schools. T H Ireland, principal of St James School, informed that after the new term begins in June and students return to classrooms, the authorities will determine if the fees for activities like swimming and other games — the facilities which are offered by the school — can be discounted for the first quarter since the campus remained closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-reduce-bus-lab-and-library-fees/articleshow/75636396.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||Cook, a vegetarian, thrashed for 'stealing' chicken pieces, dies at hosp||Bareilly: A 30-year-old cook, a vegetarian, was thrashed by a local farm house owner and his aides for allegedly stealing chicken pieces on April 18. The man died on Friday while being treated at a private hospital in Bareilly's Izzatnagar area. The accused had forced the man to prepare chicken at his eatery during lockdown and later thrashed him mercilessly after finding a few pieces missing. After the cook's death, police have added section 304 (culpable homicide) to the FIR. The accused men are yet to be arrested. Police assured that they will take action soon. The cook was identified as Bablu Saini - a resident of Bilari area of Moradabad. He used to work at the eatery along the National Highway. He was staying there with his wife since the lockdown began. “My dhaba was shut due to lockdown and Bablu was staying there with his wife as care-taker. Mahendra Rana, a farm house owner, forced him to cook chicken and later beat him up along with Dharamveer and his servant Tasleem. They claimed that he had stolen a few pieces of meat. I had informed police but no action was taken for four days. Instead, the police threatened to take action against me,” Neeraj Gupta, owner of the eatery, said. The FIR was finally registered late on April 23 under IPC sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Section 394 was added as the complainant had alleged that one of the accused had also snatched Rs 1,000 from the cook’s pocket. However, police claimed that no robbery had taken place and didn’t arrest any of the men. SHO of Izzatnagar police station KK Verma told TOI, “There was no robbery reported. So, the complaint was not sounding very genuine and we didn’t have enough evidence to arrest the accused. Also, the accused was taking care of the expenses of the treatment at the private hospital and the cook’s family initially didn't want to take any action.” While SP (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “The cook who was thrashed on suspicion of stealing chicken pieces had died during treatment. We have replaced IPC section 394 with section 304 in the FIR and the accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cook-a-vegetarian-thrashed-for-stealing-chicken-pieces-dies-at-hosp/articleshow/75633831.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Covid-19 tally reaches 293 as 9 more test positive||KANPUR: Nine more city residents tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the total tally of patients to 293. They comprise residents from Colonelganj, Babupurwa and Chamanganj localities. “The infected included a five-year-old girl and an eight-year-old girl from Begumpurwa in Babupurwa and Jagaiya park in Colonelganj, besides husband, daughter and son-in-law of a woman from Chunniganj in Colonelganj who had contracted coronavirus 19 and died at ICU of Covid 19 unit of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on May 4. Apart from this, two persons from Peshkar road in Chamanganj and two others from Colonelganj and Quli bazar pockets are positive,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. He added, “Patients have now been hospitalised at Quarantine Centre in Rama Medical college in Mandhana and their treatment has started under the supervision of expert medical team. The district administration meanwhile had declared two more hotspots — Peshkar road and Jagaiya park. The total number of active cases now is 236 while 51 people have recovered from the dreaded disease and six persons have died due to Covid-19.” Meanwhile, one more police constable has tested positive for Covid-1,9 taking the policemen’s tally of coronavirus positive patients to 25 till date. “The infected cop is posted at Colonelganj police station. He was doing duty in Rehmani market lane which comes under the hotspot area. As a precautionary measure, we will ask staff who had been in direct contact with him to self-quarantine by staying at home for 14 days,” police said. The health department said that it is taking all possible measures to provide appropriate medical care to the infected cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-tally-reaches-293-as-9-more-test-ve/articleshow/75636825.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 9, 2020||Agra||12 people hurt in stone pelting during clash in Hathras||Agra: Hathras police on Friday arrested 28 people following a clash between two groups of local residents in Jasrana village that left almost a dozen people injured. The clash took place after a fight broke out between the children of two families. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Siddhartha Verma said, “A fight between two children led to the clash between their families. Action will be taken against all those who were involved. About 12 people were injured in the stone pelting and all of them have been sent for medical examination.” Verma said an FIR has been registered under sections 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), along with other relevant sections of IPC at the Sasni police station. He added that the matter is being investigated in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/12-people-hurt-in-stone-pelting-during-clash-in-hathras/articleshow/75635214.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Institutions plan reopening along NCERT lines||Kolkata: Schools in the city have started brainstorming on re-opening plans, once and when the governments give a go-ahead. While most are looking at 50% on-campus strength on a day, the institutions said they would first have to address the problems that might arise from the “50-50 system”. This is in line with the suggestions being drawn up by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for the ministry of human resources development on resuming classroom teaching. While some schools said the division would be based on even-odd roll numbers, others said it would be on sections. But almost all will have a six-day week of contact classroom teaching and online lectures. As the new system will need adjustments, schools will ask teachers to bring down the pace of teaching so that each child can cope. This might even see trimming of the syllabus till Class VIII and shortening of vacations. “No one will miss out because the lecture will be simultaneously streamed online. Instead of starting our summer vacation from May 9, we will hold online classes till May 16,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School for Boys. Apeejay School campuses on Park Street and in Salt Lake plan staggered entry and exit timings and a six-days-a-week schedule. “We are working on how to move away from textbooks to experiential learning,” said principal Rita Chatterjee. Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools, said new campus matrices were inevitable and everything would be done in accordance with the government’s new policy guidelines. DPS Ruby Park management has sent a questionnaire to the principal and teachers on how to go about the 50-50 system. “Every teacher will perhaps be asked to make a lesson video that each child will watch at home before coming to class,” said Alok Tibrewal, chairman. Initially, some schools had considered putting kids in morning and afternoon sessions but it would have been taxing for teachers and co-curricular activities might have suffered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/institutions-plan-reopening-along-ncert-lines/articleshow/75636425.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 9, 2020||Bareilly||Two-yr-old girl dies after drunk father slams her on the ground||Bareilly: A 30-year-old man, in an inebriated state, allegedly killed his two-year-old daughter in Bisauli area of Budaun district on Friday. The man slammed his daughter on the ground. The girl’s mother later took her to a hospital where the child died of her injuries.Police said Sethlal, a resident of ward number 13 of Bisauli, had an argument with his wife. After the heated quarrel, the man saw his daughter and killed her in a fit of rage. Station house officer of Bisauli police station, Pankaj Lavania, said, “The man was in an inebriated state. He picked up his little child and slammed her on the floor. His family took her to the hospital, but the child couldn't survive.”The SHO added that on the basis of complaint by the girl’s family, an FIR has been registered against Sethlal under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide, not amounting to murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-yr-old-girl-dies-after-drunk-father-slams-her-on-the-ground/articleshow/75633868.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens want RFO’s transfer cancelled||Mangaluru: Greens, led by the National Environment Care Federation (NECF), have launched a campaign on WhatsApp urging the government to withdraw the order to transfer RFO Hebri Muniraju. Several like-minded organisations have joined the campaign and are sending WhatsApp messages questioning the transfer of the officer to forest minister Anand Singh, who in response to most of the messages has assured to look into the issue. Further, environment groups have also sent emails to top forest officials. NECF convenor Shashidhar Shetty told TOI, “Muniraju is an honest officer who has been transferred 17 times in his 17 years of service. This transfer comes in less than six months of him taking charge. He has not harmed the public. In fact, the public have great respect towards him. He is known for conducting frequent raids. Those who are against the system, poachers and smugglers are in favour of his transfer. There is no clarity on the reason behind the transfer,” he said. Meanwhile, the activists are also reaching out to the additional chief secretary (forest). “In case the government fails to react, we will be reaching out to chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Volunteers are working out campaigns to draw the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah,” said Shetty. A senior officer from the range refused to comment on the development, stating that transfers are administrative decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-want-rfos-transfer-cancelled/articleshow/75633909.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Surat||Councillor’s brother seen demanding ‘cash for tickets’||SURAT: BJP municipal councillor from ward 5, Amit Rajput, landed in trouble after a video of his brother Ajit allegedly seeking money for train tickets from migrants went viral on Friday. In the video, Ajit is seen demanding Rs 80,000 to book tickets for 80 passengers. The person who shot the video, Abhishek Rajbhar, a leader of Rajbhar community and migrant worker, levelled allegations in another video. "I believed that the train journey was free and I was not carrying Rs 80,000. I later paid Rs 4,000 for four tickets but did not get tickets till date. When I demanded the money back they, refused," he claimed in his video. Rajbhar alleged that, "Hundreds of migrant workers queue up outside Rajput's office daily where his brother Ajit collects money from them. He gave receipt for money paid but did not return the cash when demanded back after delay of days in issuing ticket. I shot the video not to defame Rajput but to expose the corruption." Rajput, however, claimed that the video was shot around a week ago and refuted allegations of corruption. “The video was shot when the trains did not start. In current situation, we are supposed to pay the money for each ticket soon after the form is accepted and hence we are collecting money from the applicants," he said. Meanwhile, BJP city unit leader clarified that the the party men are working individually. "Anyone can join the social work and it is not BJP's initiative. These BJP workers are helping the workers in ticket booking in their individual capacity," said Nitin Bhajiyawala, city BJP president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/councillors-brother-seen-demanding-cash-for-tickets/articleshow/75636449.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Patient’s death discovered 7 hours later||AHMEDABAD: In an incident that raises serious questions about Covid-19 care centres run by the city civic body, a 27-year-old coronavirus positive man died in his bed after suffering seizure at room 808-Block G3, at Samras Covid-19 care centre in Navrangpura. Only asymptomatic patients are isolated here so that they can be monitored and sent to hospital if they develop symptoms, or discharged when they turn negative. The body of the patient, identified as Shahbuddin Pathan from Bapunagar area, lay there for nearly seven hours after the patient suffered an epileptic seizure, according to an official version of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Pathan was brought to the Covid-19 care centre on May 4. Eyewitness accounts, however, claimed the body lay unattended for more than 12 hours. “It was spotted only when an attendant who served tea and breakfast at 7am in the morning reported foul smell coming from the room,” reported eyewitnesses. Videos posted by patients on social media from within the facility claimed that Pathan had informed the medical staff of discomfort. “During preliminary inquiry, we found urine spots which indicate that the patient died six to seven hours ago,” said deputy municipal commissioner Dilip Rana. Rana said the process for a medico-legal case has been initiated. A team from the forensic department will also look into the case after which a detailed postmortem will be conducted if required, said Rana. When asked, if Pathan had high fever, as such fever is associated with seizures causing deaths in Covid-19 cases, Rana said, “This has to be technically examined by a team of experts. I won’t be able to comment on it.” Rana added, “My mobile number and numbers of senior medical staff have been provided in every room. I receive hundreds of complaints every day. But in case of Shahbuddin Pathan, I had not received any complaint from the patient that he was not cared for or he suffered from fever or any other symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patients-death-discovered-7-hours-later/articleshow/75636554.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Some drive off to UP & Bihar, others wait near rly station||Aurangabad: Migrant workers from UP and Bihar have started their journey towards their native places on motorcycles, instead of waiting for trains and buses to be arranged to take them back home. Radheshyam Yadav from Jaunpur in UP reached his native village on May 5 with a group of 13 others. They covered the distance on seven motorcycles in two days and three nights. Yadav, a skilled furniture craftsman, was living in Jai Bhawani Nagar area of Aurangabad city for the past few years. “We were without work since March 22. The local workers were getting ration from ration shops or from locals here. Nobody looked after us. We waited for one and half months and decided to return to our village,” Yadav said. Among his acquaintances, altogether 60 workers have either reached their villages or are on their way to their villages in UP or MP on two wheelers. Madhukar Khillare, state president of Unorganised Workers Union, helped the workers with a week’s grocery. “No assurance of food or work could be provided to these workers. Setting of on such long journeys by themselves is dangerous not only because of threat of road accidents but also because of virus infection,” said Khillare. Meanwhile, as many as 800 migrant workers from different states have camped at an open ground near Aurangabad railway station, waiting for their turn to board the Shramik special train. Dharmendra Kumar from Mau district of UP has camped there with 20 others from his village for the last three days. “We came from Waluj industrial estate to Aurangabad to get our medical certificates because we heard that trains will take us back home. When we reached the Aurangabad railway station, we were asked to stay at the ground,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/some-drive-off-to-up-bihar-others-wait-near-rly-station/articleshow/75635225.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Shops from Paravai market to be shifted||Madurai: With markets emerging as epicentres of Covid-19 spread, the Madurai district administration is focussing on the Central and Paravai markets on the outskirts to ensure that they do not spread the disease. On Friday, a decision was taken to shift the temporary shops out of the Paravai market, where supplies from many parts of the country arrive in large quantities. District collector Dr T G Vinay is inspecting the markets regularly, especially during the nights when the supplies arrive. The city depends on the Central market in Mattuthavani for its supply in many parts of the city. As crowds became unmanageable, the district administration closed it and shifted it to the MGR bus terminal. Collector Vinay inspected Paravai market with corporation commissioner S Visakan and held consultations on shifting 77 temporary shops to the Fatima College premises, to ensure social distancing. During inspection it was found that many traders and loadmen were not wearing masks, and five of them were fined Rs 500 each and shops that were not maintaining social distancing were warned of strict action and penalties if they failed to do it. The market committees have been told to keep stressing the importance of wearing masks through the public address system continuously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shops-from-paravai-market-to-be-shifted/articleshow/75637167.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||Export-oriented leather units allowed to function||KANPUR: The industries department of the state government on Friday gave green signal to export-oriented leather industries of the city to start production in their units, subject to the condition that they will comply with the safety advisory issued by the district administration. The industries department made it clear that this relief has been given to shoe, belt, purse, saddlery and other leather goods manufacturing units. The leather industry was awaiting green signal from the government for the last couple of days. The leather goods manufacturers were hopeful that they too would get a nod to run their units which are closed since the lockdown. Despite several requests made by the leather goods manufacturers to the officials of the district administration officials and the industries department, the latter refused to allow them to start their units. The state government, which had recently categorized the locked down areas into green, orange and red zones, asked the units, manufacturing essential commodities, to run their units after giving a declaration to the district administration this week. The leather goods manufacturing units too had applied for the permission. Asad Iraqi, general secretary, Leather Industries Welfare Association, said that out of around 100 export-oriented leather goods manufacturing units in Jajmau area of the city, the district industries centre (DIC) has issued work order letters to around 20 units on Friday. Other units too would get the work orders in a couple of days. “Almost all units have completed preparations for manufacturing products. Hopefully, production would begin from Monday,” Iraqi added. Joint commissioner, industries, Sarveshwar Shukla, said, “The department has given conditional permission to export-oriented leather firms. Tanneries have not been included in it”. The units, which comes in the ambit of export-oriented leather goods manufacturing units, could start production, he added. Meanwhile, several traders’ associations have urged the government and the district administration officials to open all markers in the city the way they had permitted liquor vendors to open their shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/export-oriented-leather-units-allowed-to-function/articleshow/75636835.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||45% teachers not paid April salary: Survey||MUMBAI: As parents and schools are tangled in a fee debate during the lockdown, it’s the teachers and non-teaching staff who are feeling the pinch, found a survey by School Leaders Network Global Network, a city-based non-profit. In a dipstick survey conducted through Google Forms, of the 110 respondents, 45.5% said they were not paid salaries for the month of April, while 16.4% said they were paid a reduced salary. While 101 of the respondents work in schools, nine are from independent pre-schools. A teacher from a private school in the city said, “In our school, parents have paid the quarterly fees just before the lockdown and hence teachers’ salaries are yet not affected. However, several teachers have been asked to take a paycut from May since the parents haven’t paid last year’s due and are not likely to pay for the next year at least till school reopens. We have been spending hours creating video content and hosting online classes. So our work hasn’t stopped and neither the learning.” According to estimates by the Independent English Schools Association, a pan-Maharashtra group, over 6.5 lakh staffers might not be paid remuneration next month if schools don’t receive fees. School trustees said while classrooms might be shut during the lockdown, it’s only electricity and fuel costs that are reduced. “We have spoken about our problems to the parents. We might not have to pay high electricity bills or fuels for our buses but we want to continue paying our staff. There will also be an increased expense of sanitising school premises and making them safe spaces in consultation with healthcare personnel once we are ready to re-open. Parents have understood our point of view and a lot of them have begun paying fees,” said Rohan Bhat, trustee, Children’s Academy Group of Schools. Non-payment of teachers’ salaries could have a long term impact as well, warn experts. “If parents pay fees, the school is in a position to pay the teachers and the teachers are then able to sustain the learning outcomes among students. It is important to keep this process moving without which schools could see teacher or student dropout/shift or closure. The survey shows serious fluctuations in payment of teacher salaries which can affect their families and work. Time has come to flatten this curve as quickly as possible,” said Francis Joseph, co-founder of the network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/45-teachers-not-paid-april-salary-survey/articleshow/75637198.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Minority panel chief in Delhi HC for pre-arrest bail in sedition case||NEW DELHI: Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan on Friday approached Delhi high court seeking anticipatory bail in a sedition case lodged against him by police. The plea was mentioned for an urgent hearing and will be heard next week. Delhi Police had booked Khan for an April 28 post on social media, accusing him of making seditious and hateful comments, based on a complaint. He was booked under Sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language. In his anticipatory bail plea Khan submitted that he is a public servant and a senior citizen aged 72 years, who suffers from heart disease and hypertension and is highly susceptible to Covid-19 infection, which can have fatal consequences for a person of his age and health condition. “In these circumstances there is an urgent need to grant him protection from arrest and coercive action in a frivolous and untenable case, in order to safeguard his liberty as the failure to do so will have irreversible consequences on his right to life,” the petition said while seeking a direction to the police that in the event of his arrest, he must be immediately released on bail and no coercive measures may be taken against him. Khan has argued that he hasn’t committed any offence and the FIR has been registered with a malafide intention to harass and intimidate him. His petition said the FIR against him is “misconceived, being made on a misrepresentation of facts and an erroneous, untenable reading of the law.” The minority panel chairman has claimed in the plea that his social media post was falsely reported, distorted and sensationalised out of context by certain sections of the media to embarrass him and to tarnish his stellar work that he has been doing in the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minority-panel-chief-in-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail-in-sedition-case/articleshow/75637174.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine nursing staff positive at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute||AHMEDABAD: After a group of doctors took on the management of the Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) recently, on Friday a group of nursing staff approached senior staff members demanding the Covid-19 test for all. In a video that went viral on social media, the GCRI staff of about 50-60 nurses were seen waiting for senior officials to talk to them. The bone of contention was Covid-19 test results that came positive for at least nine staff members including three that were sourced from an agency on contract. One of the nurses claimed in the video that 80% of the staff is positive. “It’s matter of our lives and still our director doesn’t come to talk to us,” said the woman. The staff members claimed that they are not encouraged to get tested. GCRI officials were not available for comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-nursing-staff-positive-at-gcri/articleshow/75636557.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||24-year-old murdered in West Bengal after liquor protest||BARASAT: A 24-year-old youth was killed by three drunken men at Bamangachhi near Barasat in North 24 Parganas on Friday afternoon. The victim, Ali Hossain, was hit by a hammer on his head at least thrice when he protested against the men consuming liquor on a burial ground, taking advantage of the deserted road due to the lockdown. The youth succumbed to his injuries soon after being taken to Barasat district hospital. His father Mukul was also attacked when he tried to rescue his son from the goons. He is battling for life at the hospital. Cops are looking for the accused, identified as Hafizul Haque, Sirajul Haque and Safik Ali. The incident brought back memories of Sourav Chowdhury’s murder, who was killed in the same area for protesting against anti-social activities, on July 7, 2016. “Ali had led a protest against some locals drinking in public on the burial ground. On Friday, when some youths started drinking there again, he protested. The road was empty due to the lockdown,” said Mohorchand Ahmed, a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/24-year-old-murdered-after-liquor-protest/articleshow/75636440.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 9, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Coronavirus positive patient succumbs in Firozabad, 4th death in district||AGRA: A corona positive patient of Firozabad district died at isolation ward of Saifai medical college on Friday, taking the death toll to four. Resident of Prem Nagar Dak Bangla, the deceased was said to be a party worker of BJP. He was infected with coronavirus, after he came in contact with a Covid-19 positive computer operator posted at Firozabad mayor camp office. On Wednesday, the man was shifted to Saifai hospital as his condition deteriorated. According to district administration, till May 8, a total of 177 Covid-19 patients were reported, including four deaths, however, UP health directorate said, “Firozabad reported a total of 184 Covid-19 patients with six new cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/corona-ve-patient-succumbs-in-firozabad-4th-death-in-dist/articleshow/75635240.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Minister takes stock of water situation||Madurai: A review meeting on the water situation in Madurai district and ways to solve the associated issues was held here on Friday. The meeting was held in view of the peaking summer and the impending water crisis in the district. Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management and IT, R B Udayakumar presided over the meeting. Madurai collector Dr T G Vinay and Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan were present. The minister said that it should be ensured that the people in the city, town panchayats, municipalities and village panchayats had access to water to meet their needs. He said that the groundwater level throughout the district should be assessed and borewells be drilled to meet the demands. If some places are found to have copious groundwater, borewells could be drilled there and the water be transported to other parts of the district to fulfill the needs. Leakages in the water supply system should be identified and plugged immediately. He said that the population in the wards in the city, municipalities, town panchayats, and villages should be taken into consideration and the amount of water required for the entire area determined. The minister said that it should be ensured that people had water supply regularly, throughout the summer season. Madurai city has about 19 lakh people living in its 100 wards and it receives water through various sources including 115 MLD from the Vaigai drinking water project, 11 MLD from the Cauvery combined drinking water scheme, and 44 MLD from local resources like infiltration on Vaigai river and borewells. Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaiperiyar dam, the main water source for Madurai city, stood at 112.70 against its maximum level of 142 feet. There was an inflow of 125 cusecs and 125 cusecs was discharged. Vaigai dam stood at 43.75 feet against its maximum capacity of 71 feet with no inflow. As much as 60 cusec was discharged from it to meet the drinking water needs of Madurai city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-takes-stock-of-water-situation/articleshow/75637184.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally crosses 700 mark||Agra: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra have now surpassed the 700 mark. At least 28 more corona cases were reported on Friday evening, taking the district tally to 706 - now a major cause for concern. Notably, the number of cases doubled in 15 days. On an average, one positive case was reported every 40 minutes in the past week. So far, 22 deaths have been reported in the district. The cases which surfaced on Friday included a 28-year-old junior doctor of SN Medical College, a fourth-grade employee of the same hospital, a 30-year-old pregnant woman who was admitted at a private hospital, a couple of Dhuliyaganj locality and two vegetable sellers. The remaining cases are all related to Kedar Nagar, Khandari, Awas Vikas, Lohamandi, Baluganj, Awas Vikas Colony, Jeevani Mandi, Ashok Nagar, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi and Panchkuiyan locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, out of 706 cases reported in Agra, at least 90 active ones are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 80 people are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts. These included a senior resident doctor and four junior doctors of SN Medical College. So far, 30 vegetable sellers have also been diagnosed with the deadly virus. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 300 people have recovered and discharged. Those who came in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. We are doing massive sampling in hotspot areas to identify all the infected people and send them to institutional quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-crosses-700-mark/articleshow/75635233.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases on Gurukul Road, near Iskcon temple||AHMEDABAD: After one case was reported in Satellite on Thursday, the New West Zone of the city saw five cases, with cases being reported from Gurukul Road in Memnagar and the area behind the Iskcon temple. The city registered 255 cases in the last 24 hours. This is third consecutive day when the number of cases have come down. On May 5, the city had reported 336 cases. Since then, the numbers were 291, 263 and 255 cases on Friday. The virus has however, reached a new area, Gurukul Road, with one case each reported from Shantineketan Apartments and Sarjan Tower. One case was reported from Vikramnagar Society behind Iskcon temple on the Iskcon-Ambli road. One case was reported from near Ramji Mandir in Jodhpur Gaam and another from Sarthak Tower in Ramdevnagar. Sola Civil staff quarters also registered its first case. The officials are now trying to find out how the 25-year-old male got the infection. Bharwad Vas in Vejalpur reported its second case. This is a particularly congested area. Two fresh cases were reported from near Anjali Crossroads and three cases from Ambawadi. The western part of the city now has 600 cases, with 364 cases in Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas, and 110 and 126 cases in the North and South West Zones. Of the 22 deaths in the city due to Covid-19 on Friday, three were at SVP, 18 at Civil Hospital and one at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-on-gurukul-road-near-iskcon-temple/articleshow/75636613.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Chorus grows for free travel to ease ordeal of workers||Aurangabad: The rules to send migrant workers back home from Maharashtra should have been less complex, some senior government officials said in the aftermath of Friday's tragedy in Jalna. “The Jalna authorities should have issued on-the-spot travel passes with the migrant workers’ identity proofs. Instead, they were sent back to apply for the online travel pass,” a bureaucrat in the Marathwada region said. Others said communications telling the migrants to apply for online passes were in Marathi, a language the workers are not familiar with, and these caused confusion, making them run around for travel passes and medical certificates. “The transport arrangement for lakhs of migrant workers would have required funds only for diesel which the state could have borne,” another senior bureaucrat said. A senior IPS officer said the workers should not have been made to seek a travel pass from district collectors or the police. The medical certificate would have sufficed, he added. Former divisional commissioner of Aurangabad, Krishna Bhoge, said the Centre was sending aircraft to bring home Indians stranded in foreign countries but no such consideration has been given to the poor migrants. He said the government is already depositing Rs 500 in people’s account but it should provide them with a train ticket. The tussle between the Centre and the state led to a delay in sending the workers back home, a district collector said. “Taking care of these many people at a time is an uphill task for any state government, when all resources and income sources are stuck. Keeping them back has been an uphill task along with the funds spent on such arrangements which could used for emergency needs in the state,” another collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chorus-grows-for-free-travel-to-ease-ordeal-of-workers/articleshow/75635246.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||News reached late, bazaars & streets emptied out soon after||Visakhapatnam: Rythu Bazaars in city, where police at one point of time struggled to enforce social distancing, wore a deserted look on Thursday morning. This despite there was still time before the curfew hours began. Few would have guessed that earlier in the morning they were sites of near-stampede. While the gas leak began as early as around 2 am, according to some reports, the news of the leak had arrived only in the morning. By then, many had ventured to buy vegetables and other essential commodities and take their walks amid the lockdown. Upon receiving frantic calls from family members, they rushed home. K Prabhakar, a banker in his late 50s said, “Although the incident took place around 12-14km away from where I stay, Visakhapatnam is a small city and with strong winds blowing in the morning, I decided against taking a risk.” He added, “The images of the Bhopal gas tragedy are still fresh in my memory. I was barely 22 then.” As news spread, people called up friends and relatives around Gopalapatnam where the factory is located. Many residents of Gopalapatnam have shifted to their relatives’ and friends’ places in the city. “In the morning when we first got the news, we switched on the TV and started browsing the internet for more news. The videos circulating were dreadful. I asked my in-laws to rush to my home as my mother-in-law has breathing problems,” said Patta Siddharth, a resident of PM Palem. Speaking to TOI, Janardhan Rao, estate manager of Peddawaltair rythu bazaar said, “Following the gas leak there were hardly any customers at the rythu bazaar as people were reluctant to come out. Shopkeepers decided to wind up by 9am. The market was almost deserted today.” Meanwhile a completely different scenario prevailed in the red zones of the city. Social distancing and lockdown restrictions took a backseat as residents of Naidu Thota, R R Venkatapuram, Prahalladapuram, Vepagunta, Sujatha Nagar and Pushottapuram began moving to safer areas. The otherwise empty streets of Prahalladapuram, which is a red zone, saw a number of private cabs and vehicles lining up for residents to leave with their friends and relatives. Many residents of Gopalapatnam and even Pendurthy also shifted out of their residences. “The LG Polymers plant is barely a km away from where I live. The gas cloud has enveloped our area. I live alone and do not have a choice but to move to a safer location. A family friend came to take me to his residence in Seethammapeta,” said K Laksminarayanamma, a 70-year-old resident of Gopalapatnam. District medical health officer Dr S Tirupathi Rao said, “We are yet to track people who have left the red zone. In fact many of the Asha workers, volunteers and others who have been monitoring the areas had to be rushed to the hospital after the fell sick after inhaling the toxic gas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/news-reached-late-bazaars-streets-emptied-out-soon-after/articleshow/75611287.cms||Arpit Basu
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||CISF team quarantined after museum guard dies||Kolkata: An assistant sub-inspector with Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Asit Kumar Saha, who was posted at Indian Museum and had tested positive for Covid-19, died at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday.He was due to retire next year. While another colleague is admitted in the same hospital, the 32 other personnel in the CISF mess on the museum premises have been quarantined. So have a few other museum staff who have been going there for administrative work and upkeep of the facility. Even though the museum is shut, 33% workforce joined office from the last week of March. Following the death on Thursday, the museum has been completely shut till further notice. Saha was admitted to CMCH with fever, body ache and cough on May 5. On May 6, his saliva sample was collected, but the result was yet to come. On May 7, he died around 7am. A resident of Ambika Kalna in East Burdwan district, Saha was as amiable and helpful, his colleagues recounted. According to sources, Saha had complained of fever three days before being hospitalised and even visited a local doctor who diagnosed it as common flu and cold. The 59-year-old with a heart condition was admitted after he and a younger colleague complained of unbearable body ache. On Friday, the assistant commandant of CISF and head of the unit, Umesh Chanra Gautam, confirmed the ASI who had died had contracted the dreaded virus. The other CISF personnel in the barrack are being sent for testing in batches. “The situation is very grave. The CISF personnel are scared. The barrack quarters and campus will be sanitized. The entire unit has to be replaced with a new one. Even the museum staff who had gone to clean the CISF barrack, have to be sent to quarantine,” said an Indian Museum official. “Only a handful of people were coming to museum for emergency works. Now, they have been asked not to come to their office. Kolkata Municipal Corporation is sanitizing the museum,” said Indian Museum director Arijit Dutta Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisf-team-quarantined-after-museum-guard-dies/articleshow/75636481.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation placates private doctors, extends a helping hand||AHMEDABAD: A day after the furore over the alleged heavy-handedness by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to force private medical practitioners to operate, the civic body held a meeting with the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) officials and drew up a plan to ensure operation of private clinics/ nursing homes in city. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS (forest & environment) who is officer on special duty at AMC to combat Covid-19 spread in city, said on Friday that 25 buses have been kept at disposal of AMA for ferrying their staff members to the clinics and nursing homes. Transport of the staff members was a major issue raised by the associations including AMA and Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Thursday. Gupta also announced that the insurance package approved for the government employees will also be extended for the staff of the private designated Covid-19 hospitals. The Gujarat government on April 7 had announced that state government employees who are engaged in work related to coronavirus will be eligible for Rs 25 lakh compensation in case they get infected and die in the line of duty. Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, said that it’s a welcome move by AMC. “What we want is mutual respect in the fight against Covid-19. All our members are giving their best to ensure that the treatment doesn’t get affected,” she said. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that it’s a welcome first step. “But we had also made representation for other issues. We are hopeful of amicable solution to those demands too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-placates-private-doctors-extends-a-helping-hand/articleshow/75636553.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Metal piece pierces through chest of inebriated 29-year-old, removed||Kanyakumari: The joy of consuming liquor when Tasmac outlets reopened after six weeks turned out to be a nightmare for 29-year-old M Rajesh of Nagercoil after a 5-inch-long sharp metal portion on a gate pierced through his chest between the skin and his ribs. Shouting in pain he stood in that position for over two hours before being rescued and the piece surgically removed in the hospital. Kottar police inspector B T Senthil Kumar said the incident took place around 11 pm on Thursday but he denied the man was chased by the police. He said the man was questioned by a few locals when he was loitering around in an inebriated condition. “He tried to escape from them but was stuck on the gate of a house,” he said. He slipped while trying to open the gate from outside by lifting the latch inside when his shirt got stuck in the sharp metal portion which pierced through the right chest. Hearing his cries, locals rushed to the spot but their efforts to carefully release him from the piece failed. Though the police and 108 ambulance were called in, they could not make much of a difference. Finally, a fire and rescue team from the Nagercoil led by station fire officer M Durai reached the spot and cut the portions of the gate close to the metal that was inside the chest. His ribs were also injured in the incident. The gate was cut at five places using a hydraulic cutter and the youth carried into the ambulance along with a small portion of the gate. At the Kanyakumari government medical college and hospital where he was taken to, the metal portion was surgically removed. The police said that he is out of danger and under observation in the ICU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/metal-piece-pierces-through-chest-of-inebriated-29-year-old-removed/articleshow/75637195.cms||M K Ananth
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 3,175 beds arranged in 104 hotels||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, which had marked four hotels as Covid care centres till now, will now have 100 more hotels with a bed capacity of 3,175 for the purpose. In another important development, the civic body has planned a massive sanitization campaign in AMC areas from Saturday. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, who has been appointed as overall incharge of activities for Ahmedabad, said that all these 104 hotels will serve as Covid care centres and the stay in these hotels will be free as the cost will be borne by the AMC. Earlier, AMC had extended the same facilities on SG Highway, Navrangpura and Khanpur and the person availing the facility was required to pay Rs 3,000 per day for stay in these hotels. On Wednesday, Gupta had asked the deputy municipal commissioners to identify such hotels and take them over for providing AC rooms to the asymptomatic patients and even patients with mild symptoms. The AMC has decided to take up a massive sanitization drive in the city. Gupta said that in inaccessible areas, drones will be used and the sanitization process will be repeated after some time. He said that a massive operation has been undertaken to scan shopkeepers and vegetable vendors. So far, 2,000 vegetable vendors have been scanned and suspected cases are being separated. He said that efforts are on to start the sale of vegetables and groceries at the earlier. “Once the scanning is done, vendors will be permitted to operate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3175-beds-arranged-in-104-hotels/articleshow/75636550.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi temperature likely to touch 40°C, but rain expected soon||NEW DELHI: The temperature in Delhi is likely to touch 40 degrees Celsius on Saturday, followed by two cloudy days, Met official said on Friday. “Under the influence of western disturbance, May 10 and 13 may see very light rain with gusty winds to the tune of 40-50km per hour in Delhi-NCR. There will be mostly cloudy sky during May 10-12. So, after 40 degrees on Saturday, the temperature will fall by 3-4 degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre. On Friday, the maximum temperature was 39.5 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. The minimum was 23.7, one degree below normal. The humidity levels oscillated between 75% and 26%. On Saturday, partly cloudy sky is expected with possibility of thundery development towards the evening or night. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 40 and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index on Friday was 134, similar to Thursday’s 127, in the moderate levels, Central Pollution Control Board stated. The PM2.5 level recorded in Delhi and neighbouring regions at 6pm on Friday was 50.3 micrograms per cubic metre. The average PM10 level at the same time was marginally above the safe standards at 118.2 micrograms. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research has forecast a moderate day on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-temperature-likely-to-touch-40c-but-rain-expected-soon/articleshow/75637206.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||NGO to fund blood transfusion of 100 thalassemia patients||Vadodara: There is some good news for thalassaemia patients across the state. A city-based organization has decided to fund blood transfusion of 100 patients belonging to low-income groups in the state. The Wishing Factory launched the campaign ‘Ulta Hoke Thalassaemia Roke’ on Friday on the occasion of World Thalassaemia Day. “The state is home to thousands of thalassaemia patients and many of them are not getting their regular blood transfusions due to lockdown. Donors are scared to come out of their homes and donate blood amid the coronavirus scare and it is causing severe blood shortage. Also many of the patients have lost their savings in the lockdown and cannot afford the transfusions,” said Parth Thakur, who runs The Wishing Factory. “We have been encouraging people to donate blood and trying to make arrangements for as many patients as possible. We have also urged the government to provide us support. On Friday, we launched this campaign to support thalassaemia patients and fund blood transfusions,” Thakur told TOI. The online campaign asks people to post their photos upside down just like blood bags that are hung in inverted position while transfusing blood. “Celebrities like Hritik Roshan, Sonakshi Sinha, Kunal Kapoor, Abhishek Bachchan, Riteish Deshmukh, Huma Qureshi and others have joined the challenge of posting their photos upside down and are supporting our campaign,” Thakur said.“We intend to raise funds through donations for supporting 100 thalassaemia patients from low income groups. It is the poor and underprivileged patients who have suffered the most during the lockdown as they don’t have much savings and transport is also an issue for them,” Thakur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ngo-to-fund-blood-transfusion-of-100-thalassemia-patients/articleshow/75634335.cms||Tushar Tere
May 9, 2020||India||Three states ease labour laws to boost investment, jobs||NEW DELHI: The relaxation of rigid and archaic labour laws by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh (reported by TOI in its Friday edition), and by Gujarat late Friday evening, is expected to help restart economic activity, attract investments, and in the long run, create more jobs by ushering in labour market flexibility. Trade unions, however, attacked the relaxations as retrograde and warned of erosion of rights of workers. The decision of the two governments to allow employers to raise working hours by four hours and up to 72 hours a week in overtime for workers who are willing, allow third-party inspections for new units, and permit employers to change their working hours, are expected to do away with rigidities that have hamstrung businesses and deterred fresh investments. The changes include exemptions from the requirement to maintain registers and suspension of the requirement to take precautions which trade unions consider essential for labour safety, but have been criticised by others as an excuse for harassment by factory inspectors. “Today the most urgent requirement is to create new jobs. This means giving flexibility in hiring of workers while ensuring minimum wages, safety and security for workers,” former union labour secretary Shankar Agarwal told TOI. Without jobs, there is no point in talking about labour rights, he added. He said states are empowered to take action under the National Disaster Management Act and are well within their rights to change rules. There is an expectation that other states will follow suit — Haryana has already made some moves – to remove hurdles that hinder efforts to woo foreign capital, especially if investors move away from China because of country's association with the outbreak of the pandemic. “For the next two quarters each state should replicate what has been done by UP and MP. Emergency times need emergency measures, and upon normalcy we believe we need to appoint a labour commission to look at the 27,000 compliances across almost 440 central and state Acts and around 1,400 filings. ‘There should be only one labour code for rapid economic recovery’There should be one labour code to pave the path for rapid economic recovery and job creation,” said Rituporna Chakraborty, executive vice president and co-founder of staffing firm Teamlease. Rejecting the argument that the provisions will dilute the rights of labour, Chakraborty said the formal sector has progressed significantly in terms of being compliant and hence exploitation isn’t the biggest challenge in the formal Sector. “Most of the exploitation is around the informal sector, where in any case no labour laws applied in the past and won’t in future,” she said. Archaic and cumbersome labour laws have been cited as a stumbling block for accelerating reforms and employers have often demanded flexibility in hiring and firing decisions. The Centre has undertaken steps to reform some laws and have unveiled codes. There is worry that inflexible labour laws might prove to be impediment if "reshoring" of global capital happens in the wake of coronavirus. India had earlier failed to take advantage of rising wages in China with the investors opting for destinations defined by flexible labour laws. Trade unions said they have been informed that more state governments such as Gujarat, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Telangana are planning similar moves. “We are writing to the Centre and state government to explain to us how suspension of labour laws will help in restarting economic activity. Give us the justification,” said Virjesh Upadhyay, general secretary of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh which is linked to BJP, the party which is in office in UP, MP and Haryana. Leaders of seven political parties in a letter addressed to the President raised concerns over the security, welfare, livelihood and future of crores of working people. “Using the pretext of battling the Covid-19 pandemic, drastic changes are being made to the existing labour laws of the country which further jeopardise the lives and well-being of working people. Already the country is witness to the most inhuman tragic dimensions of the plight of the migrant works since the national lockdown has been enforced. Far from protecting the fundamental right to life and dignity, today’s conditions are barbaric,” said the letter signed by CPM’s SItaram Yechury and D Raja of CPI among others. Watch Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat ease labour laws||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-states-ease-labour-laws-to-boost-investment-jobs/articleshow/75638527.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Railway div donates Rs 95 lakh to PM Cares||MADURAI: Staff and officials attached to the Madurai division of the Southern Railway have contributed Rs 95 lakh towards the Prime Minister’s Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares) fund on Friday. Officials said that a majority of the nearly 8,000 employees and officers in the division contributed their one day salary. More than 500 of them had contributed five days’ salary. The highest individual contribution of Rs 1 lakh was made by locopilot James Selvaraj. His gesture was appreciated by Madurai divisional railway manager V R Lenin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railway-div-donates-rs-95l-to-pm-cares/articleshow/75637213.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another cop and a prisoner test +ve in jail||AHMEDABAD: While every precaution is being taken by jail authorities to stop the spread of Covid-19 virus inside prisons, one more policeman inside Ahmedabad Central Jail tested positive on Friday. He was sent to SVP hospital. DSP, Ahmedabad Central Jail, D V Rana, said that earlier 11 new prisoners were found to be Covid-19 positive. “Twelve jail policemen, who had come into contact with these prisoners were home quarantined. Out of these, four were found to be Covid-19 positive,” he added. Also, one more prisoner of Ahmedabad central jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. With this, there are now 12 Covid-positive prisoners inside Ahmedabad central jail. Sources said the concerned prisoner was brought as an accused from Dariapur police station on March 7. “He has been shifted to Civil Hospital for treatment,” said Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-cop-and-a-prisoner-test-ve-in-jail/articleshow/75636546.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||More hospitals suspend ops after infection, harassment of staffers||Kolkata: The Institute of Child Health (ICH) has decided to scale down operations by suspending admission of new patients and operating the emergency wing only, after multiple healthcare workers complained that they were facing harassment by neighbours, who were preventing them from going to hospital. The situation has reportedly worsened after 12 NICU nurses at ICG tested positive on May 5. Vidyasagar Hospital in Behala has shut its paediatric and female surgical wards after new cases were reported, while Bangur Medicare Research Institute in Thakurpukur suspended new admissions from Friday. But KPC Medical College kept its operations on, even after many were quarantined. ICH is the first hospital in the city to start exclusive paediatric isolation/ARI ward during the pandemic. On Tuesday, it decided to suspend new admissions to NICU only. “We had admitted a few patients even after NICU nurses tested positive. But with many of our healthcare workers being harassed in their neighbourhoods, in spite of having no link with NICU work, we are unable to take in new patients now,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri, PICU in-charge at ICH. Giri, under whom six children are admitted to the PICU, is having a tough time, managing with so few nurses. An ICH employee, on the team of maintaining the centralised oxygen system, said, “I have been told by locals and cops not to step out. We can’t even go out to buy essentials.” The Baruipur resident was to return to work on Tuesday after 14 days. “I was to release a colleague who had been on duty for 14 days. Patients who need oxygen support will die if the unit stops functioning. How can I be prevented from going to hospital ?” Hospital sources claimed police had forcefully taken some workers to a quarantine centre. The administration has drawn up a list of 78 workers stopped from reporting to work. For residents of Behala, Thakurpukur, Joka and Pailan, the shutting of Vidyasagar Hospital wards came as a blow, as they have to travel to SSKM. Ranjit Das, superintendent of the ward, said, “We are closing two wards only. The rest is functioning normally.” Bangur Medicare Research Institute stopped admitting new patients from Friday after a surgery patient was infected. KPC medical director Sourabh Ghosh said C-sections were being held though 40-odd staffers were quarantined after three patients tested positive on Wednesday. “We are following all safety guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-hospitals-suspend-ops-after-infection-harassment-of-staffers/articleshow/75636507.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Minister initiates mass disinfection drive in Sellur||Madurai: A mass disinfection drive was initiated at Sellur, a containment zone in the city where nearly 10 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past two weeks, by minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju, on Friday.The disinfection activities are being carried out using 67 vehicles and 20 manual sprayers. The minister also launched the distribution of kabasura kudineer apart from vitamin C and zinc tablets to the public as well as frontline workers. In Madurai city, disinfection work was being carried out in three phases in day-from 7 am to 11 am, 2 pm to 5 pm and 6 pm to 12 pm.The minister said that face masks and other protective equipment are being provided to the frontline workers. The sanitary workers are being given free groceries. They are also given a banana each day. He said that 69 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Madurai corporation of which 25 patients have been discharged and 42 were undergoing treatment.There are 17 containment zones in the city where 800 healthcare workers have been deployed and 1534 workers were involved in the disinfection works. 700 hundred hand-held disinfection sprayers are being used in the city. Till date 10,000 litres of kabasura kudineer have been distributed to the city residents. As much as 127 metric tonnes of bleaching powder, 140 metric tonnes of calcium carbonate, 5530 liters of lysol and 102500 sodium chloride has been used and distributed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-initiates-mass-disinfection-drive-in-sellur/articleshow/75637204.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant workers continue to travel atop trucks, risk their lives||Nagpur: Lakhs of migrant workers continue travelling atop trucks, putting their lives at great risk, despite the railway accident in Aurangabad. Efforts of social workers and policemen to persuade them to use safe modes of transport have come to nought. Anu Chhabria, a social worker who is working for migrant workers, said that she tries to persuade each and every migrant worker, who comes in contact with her, to accompany her to shelter homes and then travel by train. “However, I have not been able to convince even a single person. They are very adamant on reaching home as soon as possible,” she told TOI. Nilesh Bharne, additional commissioner of police, expressed similar frustration. “It is impossible to stop them from travelling atop trucks. Policemen stop the trucks at check posts and force the migrant workers to alight. They start walking and then climb atop trucks at some distance from check posts. We have limited number of personnel while thousands of migrant workers are passing through the district every day,” he said. Bharne further said that police department had arranged 50 buses for taking migrant workers home. “However, this number is woefully inadequate. The government will have to arrange more trains for taking them home. There are lakhs of migrant workers in Mumbai and if sufficient number of trains is not made available they will travel atop trucks,” he said. When a TOI team had checked along Wardha Road and Outer Ring Road a couple of days ago, hundreds of migrant workers were found travelling atop trucks to various parts of India. Sachin Shripad, a policeman posted at Jamtha toll plaza, said that social distancing has gone for a toss atop trucks. “The government is taking so many measures to ensure social distancing but nothing is working here,” he said. Social organizations are doing the best they can for the migrant workers. They are offering them free food at various places. Some doctors have volunteered to do their basic screening. The vulnerable are separated from others and advised to travel separately. Pregnant women are advised not to travel and go to a shelter homes instead. However, these steps have met with very little success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-workers-continue-to-travel-atop-trucks-risk-their-lives/articleshow/75636494.cms||Ashish Roy
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Three killed in alcohol-related incidents||MADURAI: Three people were murdered in alcohol-related incidents in Tuticorin, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli on Thursday night. In Virudhunagar district, V Amsa, 21, of Keelakandamangalam village in Thiruchuli taluk, who was pursuing nursing course, was murdered by her brother after she refused to cut off her relationship with a youth from the same village. The accused, Ganeshbabu who was angry with his sister for continuing the affair, came under the influence of alcohol on Thursday night and assaulted her with a wooden log and steel rod. She died on the spot. P Rajendran of Brahmadesam village near Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district was murdered due to previous enmity. Police inquiry revealed that he and Muppulipandi who resides in the next street had a quarrel over a recent temple festival. Muppulipandi and his brother Maruthapandi had an argument with Rajendran under the influence of alcohol. Elsewhere, Saravanan, 32, a construction worker from Toovey Puram was found murdered. It is learnt that there was a function in his sister’s house and he consumed alcohol with a few people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-killed-in-alcohol-related-incidents/articleshow/75637224.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||With 42 cases in a day, Akola completes century of Covid-19 cases||Nagpur: In the first eight days of May, Akola has registered 104 cases of Covid-19, including seven deaths. On Friday alone, 42 new cases were recorded, the highest single-day figure from here so far. Three of the seven deceased were undergoing Covid-19 treatment at isolation ward of Akola GMCH. Akola has total 137 cases of Covid-19, including 11 deaths and one suicide, so far. This clearly indicates that it has emerged as the biggest hotspot of Covid-19 after Nagpur. Total 14 patients have been discharged so far. The number of Covid-19 deaths in Akola is another cause of concern. Earlier, Amravati had registered 11 Covid-19 deaths. But Akola recorded its 12th death on May 8. More serious is the fact that four of these 12 deaths happened during treatment in the isolation ward of the Covid hospital in city. The other seven deceased had tested positive for Covid-19 post death. A 30-year-old patient had committed suicide after being tested as Covid-19 positive on April 10. This is the only suicide by a Covid-19 positive patient in Vidarbha. Another worrying factor for Akola is the local spread of Covid-19. First patient was reported from Baidpura while second from Akot Fail area, both densely populated localities of Akola city. The spread was limited to these two localities and nearby Akot town till April 30. In May, cases have been reported from old city, sarafa bazaar, Mohd Ali road, Radhakisan plots, old Tarfail, Gulzar Pura, Alashi plot and Mominpura etc. Till May 8, more than 14 localities in Akola have reported Covid-19 patients. The patients include five health workers who had treated a Covid-19 patient in a private hospital for respiratory disorder. This patient was detected Covid-19 positive post death. All five health workers hail from different localities of city and they came into contact of many people. After this incidence, district collector Jitendra Papalkar announced complete lockdown in Akola for two days on May 4 and 5. As many as eight localities in Akola have been completely sealed since May 4. Following the lockdown, the collector had come up with a unique odd-even scheme for shops and markets. But it had to be withdrawn following heavy public demand. “Under odd-even scheme, shops would have remained open on odd dates and closed on even dates. But, after discussion with several merchant bodies, we came to a conclusion that shops of essential services will remain open from 8am to 4pm daily,” said Papalkar. Even wine shops in rural Akola are open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-42-cases-in-a-day-akola-completes-century-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75636523.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Three at Delhi's IGI Airport test positive, CISF’s total number goes up to 14||NEW DELHI: The total number of active Covid-19 cases among the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Delhi has now risen to 14, officials said on Friday. This includes three members who were deployed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport, while the remaining 11 were deployed across the Delhi Metro network. Across the country, the total number of cases has risen to 35 meanwhile, with 15 at Mumbai, 4 at Kolkata and 2 at Greater Noida. On Thursday, a CISF head constable passed away after testing positive for the virus. This is the first death in the Central Armed Police Force. CISFsaid it was carrying out checks of each personnel, including those not showing any symptoms. It also stated that a protocol was being developed to handle passengers once operations resume at both the Delhi airport and the metro. “When operations resume, flights will be running at a lesser capacity than normal and the flight numbers too will be reduced so that adequate social distancing can be carried out at the airport and in-flight. This will be similar to the metro, which is also likely to see reduced footfall,” said a CISF official. Hemendra Singh, assistant inspector general and spokesperson for CISF said contactless frisking is being planned for both the Delhi Metro and the airport, which should help them mitigate contact. “ The new internal guidelines will reduce contact to as much as possible and those carrying out frisking will be provided the most protection,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-at-igi-test-ve-cisfs-total-number-goes-up-to-14/articleshow/75637222.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Generations bond over sharing skills||Panaji: Locked in together, parents have been using these weeks to teach their children and grandchildren life skills, which their otherwise hectic lives never permitted. Six-year-old Shane Fernandes from Arpora got his first keyboard lessons from his mother only during the lockdown and already has three songs in his repertoire. Not satisfied with ‘Mary had a little lamb’ and ‘Row row row your boat’, he insisted on being taught the Avengers soundtrack. “I didn’t know it myself. I watched a YouTube tutorial and then taught it to him. I marked the notes on the keyboard to make it easy for him and now he uses his ear and corrects himself,” says his mother Marie, who unpacked the keyboard on many occasions in the past, but never found enough time to begin lessons. Marie also held a crash course in pancake making for him in the kitchen. “I made sure I trained him not to think that only women have a place in the kitchen. I’m also teaching him to boil rice. Recently he has been pouring brewed tea into a cup, adding correct proportions of dairy whitener and sugar and bringing this to me every evening without fail with biscuits when I begin my work shift,” she told TOI. She, in turn, has been learning the nuances of filing and organising bills and receipts and picking up gardening tips from her mother. At the Gracias home in Borda, eight-year-old Aanora has been acing the embroidery and stencil painting classes held jointly by her mother and grandmother, while her six-year-old brother has been learning to flip pancakes in the kitchen and bake cakes. Her first piece of embroidery completed, Aanora has also stencil painted flowers and a butterfly onto her shorts. “They want to learn too many things too soon and we are happy to teach them as there’s no other entertainment. We don’t have cable or satellite TV connection, so we are just stuck with the laptop where we stream a different movie every night,” her mother says. In Taleigao, five year old Liam and his 20-year-old sister Shrishti are both honing their skills in the kitchen. While Shrishti had no trouble whipping up a pasta and omelette, she is now learning the basics — dal, rice and vegetables. Her brother on the other hand is working on his basics of learning to cut potatoes and carrots using a proper knife. Life today has got to be about gender neutrality, their mother tells TOI. “I want to teach him how to scrape coconuts, but there are no coconuts available. We learnt all these skills because we didn’t have TV and our parents had time for us,” she says. In addition to attending her classes online and completing assignments, Shrishti is also learning to clean the house, something she was never encouraged to do while growing up. The exercise and activity is necessary to help with sound sleep at night, her mother says. When ten year old Swaraj couldn’t begin flute classes at Kala Academy in March due to the lockdown, he decided to take matters into his own hands and learn from YouTube tutorials. With two flutes at home, both father and son have been watching videos and practising together. “When he starts classes at Kala Academy he can come back and teach me,” his father says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/generations-bond-over-sharing-skills/articleshow/75637219.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Masks and distancing here to stay: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Police and paramilitary companies are patrolling containment areas and red zones of the city round the clock to strictly implement lockdown. In green zone areas the enforcement of lockdown is not so harsh and some movement is being allowed on roads, said Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Friday. Jha said the relatively mild enforcement of lockdown in green zone areas has been allowed for public convenience and should not be misused. “Support should be given to the cops and if anyone is found loitering, action will be taken against the person,” Jha added. Jha said that now masks and social distancing should be made a part of life or else falling prey to Covid-19 will be unavoidable. Referring to the fact that Rajasthan has sealed its road borders, DGP Jha said that for travelling to Rajasthan, one should acquire permission from Rajasthan government to move ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/masks-and-distancing-here-to-stay-dgp/articleshow/75636541.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: These super-specialists joined forces to save Covid-19 patients||AHMEDABAD: When the high Covid-19 death rate started alarm bells ringing in the state, it was time for a leading infectious diseases (ID) specialist to push his work boundaries. Dr Atul Patel was already reviewing condition and treatment plans of critical patients in ICUs across Covid-19 hospitals in state, and decided it was time to join hands with his government counterparts and physically step into the ground zero of war against Covid-19. “I have paid only Rs 1,200 for my MD degree. It is time to give back to the society,” said Dr Patel who reviews critically ill patients with 35-odd resident doctors daily. He along with pulmonologists Dr Mukesh Patel and Dr Varun Patel are working at SVP Hospital. “The only things we needed were protective gears and an assured parking for our cars,” he adds. Dr Patel is part of the state’s apex medical committee to address Covid-19 crisis. At Civil Hospital, it’s the team of Dr Tushar Patel, Dr Jigar Mehta, Dr Gopal Raval and Dr Manoj Singh that’s ensuring that fewer patients need ventilators. “We were associated with the government for the Covid-19 action plan but we decided to visit the patients. Daily, we are devoting about 2-3 hours with the critical and serious patients, reviewing their treatment and providing suggestions,” said Dr Patel. He added that responding to their appeal, about 15 more experts of infectious diseases, critical care specialists, intensivists and pulmonologists will be joining them in a few days. “With Covid-19 patients, it’s not just the viral infection – the existing condition, which could even be mild or dormant, also manifests itself, causing the immunity to drop. It’s possible that the patient who is healthy one day can turn critical the next,” said Dr Mehta. Dr Singh said this risk was higher in senior citizen patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/these-super-specialists-joined-forces-to-save-covid-patients/articleshow/75636585.cms||Parth Shastri
May 9, 2020||Goa||‘Goa helped us in so many ways, we are really grateful’||THIVIM: Over a thousand migrant workers heaved a collective sigh of relief as the first Shramik special train rolled out of Thivim railway station on Friday. The train, with 1,196 labourers and stranded tourists, is headed for Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. As the train slowly left, the station resounded with applause, with Konkan Railway staff, police personnel and state authorities clapping together. Many migrants waved back from their windows, faces lit up with wide smiles. Some even promised to return when lockdown is lifted. “As soon as I found out that a train would take us to Gwalior, I called my family and told them. They were very happy. Goa has helped us in so many ways, we are really grateful,” said Suresh Kewat from MP’s Morena district. The special train is just the first of several planned by state and central authorities to help people stranded in Goa get home to their families across India, officials said. This Friday’s train, operated by Konkan Railway, was only filled after its distressed passengers were screened. “Goa is a nice place, there is no trouble and no disease, but the circumstances forced us to go home. We will have to stay another four days in Morena till we are cleared to go home,” said Vijay Singh, who worked in Vasco as a daily wage labourer, including for construction work at an Indian Navy base. Their presence on the train was culmination of a secretive, detailed mission by various authorities. Government officials, Konkan Railway, Goa police, Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd, the Railway Protection Force and several others coordinated to ensure that the exercise went off without a hitch, and without others getting into the train. “This is the first train (of its kind from Goa), and we were very meticulous to screen each person and put them in dedicated bogies,” said nodal officer of the interstate movement cell, Kunal. “This is the first time we are having an evacuation exercise like this — mapping of districts, verifying phone numbers — and it was a challenge.” To ensure complete secrecy and to prevent a mob at Thivim railway station, authorities began to gather people from across the state without divulging details about the train. On Wednesday night, district collectors of North Goa and South Goa, in coordination with Kunal, began to call and inform MP residents to assemble on Thursday. 565 stranded citizens were identified in North Goa, and 666 from South Goa which includes several children. Of these, eight were not allowed to board when healthcare workers found that they had a fever. Many of those left behind were pleading to be let on the train, but officials didn’t relent. “The district magistrate sent out messages on Thursday to assemble at the staging area in the afternoon session. The first medical screening was done there, and then, Friday morning, they were brought here by dedicated buses,” said Kunal. The passengers were segregated as per bogie and put on buses earmarked for specific bogies. They were handed over their tickets only at the railway station, to prevent unauthorised people from boarding the train. Goa police personnel lined both sides of the road leading to the station, and all the way to the train. The 22-coach train had 20 sleeper coaches and two power cars, and is expected to arrive at Gwalior on Saturday morning. “Since the train is running point to point, we had to ensure that the receiving state has proper arrangements for transportation to respective locations,” said Kunal. While most labourers were housed at relief camps in the state, some families and tourists were living at their own residences when they were asked to come to the staging area on Thursday. No one except those with valid passes and tickets were allowed entry into the railway station and onto the train. They were given food and water for the journey. In the coming days, around 60,000 stranded people, mostly from UP and Bihar, hope to be able to catch trains and go home. *** How it panned out On Wednesday, officials start calling selected passengers Thursday afternoon, they assembly at Peddem and Navelim Those gathered are then screened for Covid-19 symptoms Cleared, officials take their contact details and address Based on Aadhaar card verification, travel passes are issued A bogie number is alloted to each passenger with a pass They board dedicated Kadamba buses alloted to each bogie At 4am on Friday, passengers are woken up, put on buses Later in the morning, the buses arrive at Thivim station Here they are screened, given a ticket, and allowed to board Sixty passengers are allowed in a bogie (capacity usually 80) At 12.30pm, the train leaves; will reach Gwalior on Saturday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-helped-us-in-so-many-ways-we-are-really-grateful/articleshow/75637239.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 9, 2020||Kochi||First repatriation flight from Riyadh lands at Karipur||MALAPPURAM/KOCHI: The first repatriation flight from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia landed at Karipur airport with 152 NRIs, including 84 pregnant women, at 8.05pm on Friday. District administration said in addition to passengers from 13 districts, flight AI-922 also brought passengers who are Karnataka (8) and Tamil Nadu (2) natives. Among those who landed were 22 children and five persons with medical conditions that need special care. Asymptomatic persons will be shifted to the Covid care centre at Safa Hospital in Kalikavu and those from other districts will be sent to their home districts in KSRTC buses. The 10 passengers from TN and Karnataka will be quarantined in isolation centres of Malappuram. Navy’s operation to evacuate Indians beginsOperation Samudra Setu by Indian Navy to evacuate Indians stranded abroad using naval ships began on Friday at Maldives. INS Jalashwa, the ship of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), began embarking Indian citizens at the port of Male in Maldives on Friday. The ship is scheduled to depart from Male on Friday night and reach Kochi by Sunday. With the premises of Male airport having utilised as a staging area for evacuees, the process of screening people and issuance of IDs were conducted. As per the latest manifest, a total of 698 evacuees have registered so far. This includes 19 pregnant women and 14 children. Priority was accorded for pregnant women and children to embark first on the ship. Flight from Bahrain takes offThe second repatriation flight to Kochi from Bahrain took off and is scheduled to reach Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) around 12am. The Air India Express flight (IX 474) with 177 passengers plus five infants is fourth repatriation flight to Kerala after the Vande Bharat mission was launched on Thursday. The passengers will be led to triage area in small units each comprising of around 30 persons and only after recording their temperature using newly installed thermal scanner, they will be brought to terminal health counters where their health checkups will be conducted. Onemetre social distancing will be ensured throughout. Symptomatic people will be sent to the Ernakulam Medical College for detailed tests. After immigration the passengers will be given a brief lecture by the health officials regarding the protocols they are supposed follow to follow during the quarantine. Also, the central government’s directions to implement Arogya Setu app in the smartphones of all passengers will be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/first-repatriation-flight-from-riyadh-lands-at-karipur/articleshow/75635323.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Road dug up in Cidco to stop entry of ‘outsiders’||Aurangabad: Some residents of Cidco N-5 have dug up a road connecting Jalgaon Road to the area in order to prevent vehicular movement and stop people from other parts of the city to enter the area. Other residents have raised objections on the move as they said there could have been a better way to stop vehicular movement other than destroying the road. A day after the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation along with the police department sealed Cidco N-4 and Aref Colony after Covid-19 cases were reported in April, residents of several other localities started blocking the lanes in their localities to prevent the entry of ‘outsiders’. People from other parts of the city have been termed as ‘outsiders’ The trend promptly gathered momentum in locations across the city where people were seen using fallen trees, bricks, and stones to block entry to their localities. The sealing of localities was part of the cluster containment plan under which high- risk and low-risk contacts of the Covid-19 patients were being screened. However, no official directive was given to place barricades in other localities. I Nita Padalkar, the health officer with the AMC, said that such actions are wrong and the best way to contain the spread of the infection is to stay at home. However, due to the indiscriminate barricading in localities, residents are forced to take longer routes The residents are supported by their local corporators in most cases. In Cidco N-5, when a well-built road in front of Wockhardt was dug up. Gulmohar Colony corporator Shivaji Dandge said, “People travel on the wrong side of the Jalgaon Road, which sometimes leads to accidents so the road has been blocked,” However, according to city engineer Sakharam Panzade no permission was given to dig the road up. “Such actions cannot be tolerated. We will file a police complaint against those who have engaged in such activity,” Panzade said. Activist Rahul Ingle of Shahar Parivartan Aghadi said, “Awareness should be raised and public representatives should refrain from engaging in unscientific activities during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/road-dug-up-in-cidco-to-stop-entry-of-outsiders/articleshow/75635309.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||26 test positive in Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: As many as 26 people from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. According to civic health officer Nita Padalkar, the cases are contacts of previously confirmed Covid-19 cases. Those who tested positive include 7 people from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, 4 each from Jai Bhim Nagar and Beghumpura, 3 from Bajipura, and one each from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura, Cidco N-2, Maqsood Colony, Jinsi, Katkat Gate, Nyay Nagar Garkheda, Shah Bazar and Kabir Nagar. A resident of Khuldabad, falling outside the municipal area, has also tested positive for coronavirus. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that a total of 142 people are being treated at the district civil hospital as on Friday. Meanwhile, nodal officer for media interaction Arvind Gaikwad said that 35 Covid-19 positive cases are under treatment at the GMCH. “Those infected with the virus include a health worker who was on duty at a fever clinic of AMC,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/26-test-positive-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/75635298.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Give report in 24 hours or face action, Delhi private labs told||NEW DELHI: After some private laboratories were found taking 10 to 15 days for testing samples collected from Covid-19 suspects, Delhi government has ordered all labs to complete all reports within 24 hours. “If there is a delay due to any reason, action will be taken against them after 48 hours,” health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. Testing assumes greater significance as the capital has started witnessing a spike in the number of novel coronavirus cases, with the highest one-day spurt witnessed on Thursday with 448 cases. The Indian Council of Medical Research has recently expanded the list of private laboratories performing real time RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 in Delhi from eight to 13. All these labs have been asked to follow the guidelines issued by the government for effective tracking and monitoring of all Covid-19 suspected cases getting tested in these facilities across the city. The samples are sent to the private laboratories when the number of samples collected by the chief district medical officer, Covid-19-designated hospitals, Covid-19 health and isolation centres, and testing centres are more than the combined capacity of government labs. The private labs are paid from the Covid funds released by the Centre under National Health Mission to Delhi State Health Mission. A private lab gets Rs 4,500 for collecting and testing samples and Rs 3,500 for testing samples collected by government facilities, while a government facility gets Rs 2,200 for collection and testing. Among the 13 private labs, the one for North and North West districts can test 4,000 samples in a day. While two labs in Central district have a combined capacity to test 180 samples daily, the one for New Delhi can test 200 samples. There’s one lab each for North East, South, South West, only one for both East and Shahdara districts, and two for South East. West district has three approved labs. The government has made it clear that the collection of samples shouldn’t exceed more than 10% of a private lab’s declared capacity. Watch Delhi government orders Covid labs to give reports within 24 hrs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-report-in-24-hrs-or-face-action-pvt-labs-told/articleshow/75637262.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Spirit undampened, enthusiasts hashtag their love for feni||Panaji: The Goan summer has always been a time of indulgence - the new harvest, colourful tropical fruit and a variety of gatherings with music, food and drink. This time last year, the air was thick with the heady aroma of the cashew apple, as feni enthusiasts across the state celebrated the state fruit and heritage brew in every possible way - from lavish caju-themed luncheons at five star resorts, to feni-fuelled bonhomie among regulars at nameless little taverns, from invite-only tasting and food-pairing experiences at the world’s only feni cellar, the Fazenda Cazulo, to the massive feni and food festival at Campal grounds, where hundreds of people, kids in tow, gather to sample the fresh batches of urak and feni, enjoyed with their favourite Goan snacks and Lorna’s musical genius. This summer, marred by the coronavirus pandemic, has been rather bleak for anyone with stake in the feni industry - the cashew farmers, the distillers as well as consumers of the spirit— but feni enthusiasts have still found a way to celebrate ‘World Feni Week’ from May 3 to 10, taking the annual revelry online, to social media platforms. “Every spirit category has a week, and a day dedicated to itself. Our idea for a ‘Feni Week’ stemmed from this, and this year, due to social distancing norms, we are taking the party online,” says feni distiller Hansel Vaz, who owns Cazulo Premium Feni. While his brand may have spearheaded the week, he says, “Feni week was created for every feni aficionado, bartender or distillery to take part, to push the feni movement and bring pride in the drink that we love so much, for the state of Goa”. Feni week, he says, has been scheduled in May as it marks a celebratory end of the cashew season. These dates are also ideal, as schools are closed for the summer holidays, and it is after the end of lent, which allows the Christian community to be part of it. May also witnesses high tourist footfalls, though this year is an exception. The ask is simple— get together with your family, and enjoy your feni, cashew or coconut, any way you please, says Vaz. “Whether in the form of a fancy cocktail or with the traditional lime-chilli-salt combo, or just neat on ice, click a photograph and share it on your social media page, with #WorldFeniDay, to show support for the Goan spirit,” says Vaz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spirit-undampened-enthusiasts-hashtag-their-love-for-feni/articleshow/75637250.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 9, 2020||Goa||Got a chance to serve at critical time, take people home: Loco pilots||THIVIM: For over five hours, as migrant workers and stranded tourists boarded the Shramik special train, the two loco pilots ran over checklists and discussed their route in the engine of train number 01602. This wasn’t the first time for either of them, and the route is a familiar one, but this was no regular train. This was Konkan Railway’s first Shramik special from Goa, and the men were excited at the opportunity to be of service at a time when Covid-19 has brought all passenger rail movement to a halt. “We got a chance to serve our fellow citizens during this critical time, to take them home when there is no transport,” said loco pilot P T Malgunkar. On a usual trip, they would disembark at Ratnagiri and hand over duty to other loco pilots, but this time, the SOP says that the train cannot stop at any other railway station. “We do not know when we will be relieved, but we are happy to work extra because we have got a chance to serve,” said the other loco pilot, Rupesh Padvekar. Given the special nature of the train and with track utilisation much lower, the train will run at an average speed of 71kmph against the otherwise 55kmph average that Konkan railway trains usually maintain. “Our family members are happy that we have been chosen, even though there is a risk,” said Malgunkar. The train will be sanitized at Gwalior and will return to Goa empty, where it will again be sanitized. Indian Railways, while clearing trains for such endeavours, has asked state authorities to ensure 90% occupancy in the train. “Depending on the passenger load, we will decide with the nodal officer of the concerned state for further Shramik special trains. These trains run point to point, and will not stop or take any additional passengers en-route,” said nodal officer for stranded migrants and tourists, Kunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/got-a-chance-to-serve-at-critical-time-take-people-home-loco-pilots/articleshow/75637251.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Jawans not following Covid rules: Hingoli civil surgeon||Aurangabad: A letter has been sent by Hingoli civil surgeon Kishor Shrive to the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) commandant complaining about the unruly behaviour of the SRPF jawans admitted to the civil hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.According to the letter, the jawans are roaming around the hospital, which will lead to a spread of the infection. Copies of the complaint letter has also been marked to district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi, superintendent of police Yogesh Kumar and deputy director of health services in Aurangabad. The letter states that after being infected the SRPF jawans from Hingoli have been lodged at civil hospital’s isolation ward. “These jawans instead of staying back on their beds are roaming around in the hospital and are also going on the terrace. Videos of their acts have also gone viral,” the letter said.The letter also cites a complaint lodged on May 5 by the medical staff, including nurses, posted in the isolation ward. According to the complaint, the jawans threatened the staff that they will ensure that the medical team also gets infected.The letter states that due to the unruly behaviour and frequent threats, the health workers are worried and working under tremendous stress.When contacted, Hingoli SRPF commandant Manchak Ippar said, “The complaint, if true, then is very serious. This is not expected from a disciplined force. We will initiate an inquiry into the matter and if anyone is found guilty, appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.”So far, 91 positive cases have been reported from Hingoli district of which 90 are still active. SRPF authorities informed that the jawans, who were sent on duty to Mumbai and Malegaon in February this year, returned around April 20 following which around half of them tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jawans-not-following-covid-rules-hingoli-civil-surgeon/articleshow/75635326.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 victim from UP cremated without family members||Nagpur: Being a cleaner on a transport truck hardly allowed Pritam Kumar (name changed) to stay with his family in Uttar Pradesh. Even in death, Covid-19 did not allow his family to bid final farewell to him. He died of Covid-19 on May 2 and his last rites were conducted by team of health department in Washim, in presence of a distant relative from Indore on May 5. 45-yr-old Kumar was on a transport truck from Mumbai to Nagpur when the truck had a flat tyre near Washim. While waiting for repair at a petrol pump, Kumar started feeling breathless. He was moved to Washim Government hospital where his condition deteriorated and he died on May 2. His family members staying in a village of northern UP were informed of the death. “The deceased hails from a poor family. It is not that they were not willing to come for last rites, but it was not possible for them logistically. Even transporting a Covid-19 deceased body to UP was risky. So, we decided to conduct last rites here in Washim,” said district collector Hrishikesh Modak. A cousin who used to work at Indore was able to make it to the funeral. “His cremation was conducted as per the guidelines of ICMR. Otherwise also, we don’t allow family-members to conduct the last rites. Only health officials with PPE kits conduct the cremation,” said Modak. Health department team not only followed the ICMR rules but also conducted funeral as per religious beliefs of deceased’s family. Even if they were not present, some customs as per their traditions were followed. Washim has had only two cases of Covid-19. One patient has recovered while other is the deceased person. The district is in green zone as no new case has been reported here in 20 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-victim-from-up-cremated-without-family-members/articleshow/75636547.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 9, 2020||Madurai||29 kids were born in 108 ambulances during lockdown in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Amid the lockdown, the GVK-EMRI 108 ambulance service in south Tamil Nadu has handled as many as 6,223 pregnancy cases between April 1 and 28 while 29 babies were delivered in the ambulance. Because of the risk involved, undertaking delivery in an ambulance is a last resort and the ambulance personnel hope to avoid it with more awareness among the public. Madurai district saw the highest number of pregnancies with 1,113 cases while Dindigul had the most number of babies delivered in the ambulance with eight cases. On Friday, a 19-year-old wife of a farmer from Palgudi in Melur gave birth to her baby at home with the help of an emergency medical technician (EMT) of the 108 service. “When I reached there, I found people saying the delivery is already happening. I immediately ensured safe normal delivery and provided necessary aftercare. I took them to the nearest PHC as well,” said Sekar P, the EMT who was accompanied by ambulance pilot C Sakthivel. He said that in many cases, they receive calls only after the woman’s labour pain becomes intense, which makes it tough for them to reach on time to the PHC or hospital. “When the expected date of delivery is known, we insist the public call us when the pregnant mother experiences mild pain. Otherwise, we insist the pregnant mothers to get admitted a day before the expected due date. Even the last screening check-up within the week before due date, we urge them to make use of ambulance to be on the safer side,” said R Prasad, regional manager, Madurai region of the ambulance service. He added that even on the 104 Health Advice Helpline Services, also run by GVK-EMRI, pregnant mothers are urged to make use of 108 Ambulances anytime. Ambulances ferry pregnant mothers either from their residence to the PHC or secondary or tertiary care centre, or from PHC to a tertiary care centre in case of complications. Though the 108 ambulances and EMTs are fully-equipped to handle deliveries, deliveries in ambulances are done only in case of emergency. “It is just like staff nurses taking over in PHCs when the doctor is not available. All our EMTs have been provided training to conduct safe deliveries. A delivery kit is provided in all ambulances which carries a disposable gown for the EMT to use and all that is required to provide care for the newborn as well. The deliveries are also done after the vehicle is stopped,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/29-kids-were-born-in-108-ambulances-during-lockdown-in-south-tn/articleshow/75637249.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 9, 2020||Goa||Panchayats told to devise plan for returnees||Panaji: Panchayats have been advised to devise a plan and mechanism to handle suspected cases of coronavirus, particularly those returning to Goa from outside the state. “It is expected that students, seafarers and people stranded in foreign countries and other parts of the country will arrive in Goa. This may be done in collaboration with the health authorities,” the Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) stated in ‘Panchayati Raj Institution and Covid-19: Challenges and the way ahead’. In its ready reckoner for panchayats, GIPARD has also suggested that panchayats create a database of people who have tested positive and monitor their health parameters, while encouraging them to take adequate medical action and followup. Those already on home quarantine must also be monitored and people with critical illnesses ward wise identified so that they receive due attention and medical care. GIPARD has also recommended that panchayats reach out to those who are home isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayats-told-to-devise-plan-for-returnees/articleshow/75637258.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Swab collection & screening boost in micro-clusters to check Covid-19 spread||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to ramp up collection of swabs of suspected patients, testing and screening of symptomatic people from the 69 micro-clusters to arrest the rise in Covid-19 cases. While five new swab collection units have already been started in the last two days, the administration plans to introduce more mobile units to save people from travelling to give the samples. The mobile units are being introduced for the first time. Saurabh Rao, state sugar commissioner who is also overseeing the containment measures in hotspots under the Bhavani Peth and Dhole Patil Road areas, said the focus was on boosting testing and contact tracing. “We are planning a new experiment of introducing mobile units for swab collection. Three units will start running on trial basis soon. Ten units are planned, two each for five most-affected civic wards,” he said. On Thursday, PMC’s daily swab collection went beyond 1,000. “We are looking to maintain it over 1,000 daily from now on,” a civic official said, while appealing to the citizens to make use of the flu clinics and swab collection units. A team of dedicated doctors and workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh Jankalyan Samiti (RSSJS) has also joined PMC’s screening drives in the slum and densely populated areas. Over 190 doctors and 520 workers have participated in the initiative. The members of RSSJS said health check-up of 49,128 citizens from 10,200 households in these zones was completed through the Arogya Raksha Seva Abhiyaan (screening campaign) till Friday. About 811 symptomatic citizens have been referred for further testing and treatment. The masks and homeopathic medicines were also distributed among the people after the health check-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swab-collection-screening-boost-in-micro-clusters-to-check-ncov-spread/articleshow/75637260.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||Truck rams police van, five injured||VADODARA: Five persons including police personnel were injured when a police patrol van they were using met with an accident in the early hours on Friday near Kali Talai near Dahod. The accident took place after a truck hit the van from behind. The incident took place when personnel of the Dahod rural police station and others were patrolling the Kali Talai area. The van included a constable of the Dahod rural police station Ranjitsinh Rajendrasinh, a driver provided by a private agency, a state Reserve Police constable, and two Gram Rakshak Dal personnel. When they were on the Ahmedabad-Indore highway, a truck came from behind and hit them. The patrolling van fell into a storm water drain near the road. All those who were present in the van received minor injuries. Ranjitsinh filed an offence regarding the incident with the Dahod rural police station. The truck registered in Uttar Pradesh had also hit the railing on the side of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-rams-police-van-five-injured/articleshow/75634355.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Foot the bill and bring NRIs home: Ex-Union minister||KOZHIKODE: Former Union minister K P Unnikrishnan, who oversaw the mass evacuation of Indians from war-torn Kuwait in 1990, said Indian government should bring back stranded Indians from foreign countries free of cost through Vande Bharat mission. He said Kuwait airlift operation – in which over 1,70,000 NRIs were brought home – was the largest civilian evacuation in the country’s history and that it was very complex as it happened during a war. Stranded Indians were brought from Amman to Bombay and then sent home in trains between August 13 and October 11, 1990 with nearly 500 flights. He said many officials and some ministers had opposed free evacuation of stranded Indians during the Gulf War but he had insisted that government should bear the cost of evacuation. “I’m of the view that government should take a compassionate view and bear the cost of current evacuation of Indians in foreign countries. It is something India government can do," said Unnikrishnan, who resides at his ancestral house at Panniyankara. He added that the contexts of both evacuations are different. "One involved bringing back people from a war zone while the current one is necessitated by heath issue. I think the insecurity of people was higher during Gulf war evacuation and around 75,000 families from Kerala were involved. Also, thousands of Indians, including NRKs, took a dangerous journey through deserts to reach Jordan border," he said. Recounting the operation, Unnikrishnan said that he had met (late) Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein at an undisclosed location after being asked by then Prime Minister VP Singh. "The prime minister sent me to the region after the initial visit of then external affairs minister IK Gujral. I met Saddam and he was sympathetic towards India, but naturally he had his own interests. However, we were able to convince him and start the evacuation process," Unnikrishnan said, who had camped in Amman in Jordan and Dubai for several days to oversee the evacuation. Initially, the plan was to send ships, which didn’t happen due to opposition from US and the difficulties in using Dubai port. Unnikrishnan strongly pitched the idea of using aircraft which were brought during the tenure of Rajiv Gandhi’s government and were grounded pending inquiry. The proposal was approved by the cabinet and flights were used for evacuation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/foot-the-bill-bring-nris-home-ex-union-minister/articleshow/75635373.cms||K R Rajeev
May 9, 2020||Goa||Vedanta requests SC to treat Goa’s mining matter as urgent||Panaji: Chief executive officer of Vedanta Ltd - Sesa Goa Iron Ore, Sauvick Mazumdar, said the company has moved the Supreme Court seeking that Goa’s mining matter be listed as urgent. He also said it would not be easy for the sector to regain lost ground because miners from Australia have been taking over markets traditionally serviced by Goa’s mining industry. The crucial mining case was listed for April 21 in the apex court. However, it did not come up for hearing as the court has been taking up only urgent matters in view of the lockdown. Vedanta — which is the largest mining firm operating in Goa — was one of two companies that had approached the Supreme Court seeking that their mining leases be granted an extension till 2037. Mazumdar said resumption of mining in Goa would buoy an economy that has already been jolted by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Loss of the state’s tourism industry for a full year, coupled with the cessation of mining, will be nothing short of catastrophic for the economy. If ore extraction resumes at a capacity of 20 million tonnes per annum, the state will earn an annual revenue of around Rs 4,000 crore apart from generating as much as $1 billion for the country in terms of foreign exchange,” he said. The CEO also said it would reopen avenues for locals involved in ancillary activities such as transportation through trucks and barges. “Some people will keep on opposing the resumption of mining. If the government or industry does not act merely due to the fear of opposition, we will have a state of economic paralysis, which is not what the country wants at this critical juncture. In a democratic country, all have a right to have their voices heard, but I believe the larger public is now able to understand what is required for the betterment of the state,” Mazumdar said. In February 2018, the Supreme Court had quashed the second renewal of iron ore mining leases granted to 88 companies in Goa in 2015. It had also directed that mining operations be stopped with effect from March 16, 2018, until fresh environmental clearances were granted. Mazumdar said although the central government’s present regime of auctioning mining leases is focused on revenue maximisation, thrust should be laid on production maximisation, “as this would lead to the creation of several employment opportunities”. “The auctioning of mining leases in Goa is a unique case as erstwhile mining concessions were converted into mining leases and legally vested rights still lie with the lease holders. This stand has also been taken by the Union mines ministry before the Supreme Court,” Mazumdar said. He refused to comment further as he said the matter was sub-judice. Describing Goa’s mining industry as a great example of sustainability, Mazumdar said adoption of the best environmental, exploration and beneficiation practices has helped mining continue in the state over the last six decades. “For instance, the state’s reserves and resources was 200 million tonnes in 1981. The same stands at 1.2 billion tonnes in 2020. With adoption of latest technology, things will only get better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vedanta-requests-sc-to-treat-goas-mining-matter-as-urgent/articleshow/75637256.cms||Murari Shetye
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||Rapid tests for Covid-19 surveillance in slums may kick off in Dharavi||MUMBAI: The stage is set for the city’s first Covid-19 surveillance using rapid blood tests in the worst-hit slums, said civic officials. Dharavi, which has witnessed 808 cases, including 26 deaths, since April 1, is likely to be the flag-off point for the study, which will be done by the BMC along with Stanford University and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. “Our surveillance in the slums will help us know the extent of population affected by Covid-19,” said a senior BMC official, adding the surveillance is likely to begin next week . There is a possibility that an indigenous Eliza test kit (which can test 100 samples in one hour) developed by NIV will be used during the surveillance. The kit has been vetted by Kasturba Hospital and Haffkine Institute and will soon be given to a commercial organisation for mass manufacturing. Some rapid test kits will also be used, said the official, adding that the test kits were validated by Sion Hospital’s microbiology team. “We have done a small pilot project by using the kits to test our healthcare workers,” said Sion Hospital acting dean Dr P Ingale. Not all the slums where the surveillance will be carried out have been identified so far. Rapid test kits and Eliza kits are blood tests that will reveal whether the patient has antibodies to Covid-19. “At present, we only know the number of patients who have been diagnosed using a nasal swab test. Most of them had symptoms or were close contacts of positive patients,” said the official. “However, there may be a number of asymptomatic persons who would have developed antibodies. The rapid test as well as the Eliza kits can pick up the antibodies, proving that person was exposed to Covid,” said a doctor. The blood-based rapid tests can thus provide a good indication of how widespread the infection is. The surveillance can thus help civic officials better plan public health strategies. “Even decisions on lockdowns can be taken on basis of such an extensive surveillance,” said the doctor. “The testing will be done using both rapid tests which have a good specificity but may miss some cases and also the Eliza test for Covid-19 which is sensitive and specific,” said a high-ranking BMC official. The surveillance tests were initially planned by the Indian Council for Medical Research, which procured and distributed rapid tests kits bought from China. However, the plan was called off as the kits were found to be faulty. It is now learnt that Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have already started doing surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rapid-tests-for-covid-surveillance-in-slums-may-kick-off-in-dharavi/articleshow/75637263.cms||Clara Lewis
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Police presence sought for last rites of Covid patients||Aurangabad: A letter has been sent by Government Medical College and Hospital dean Kanan Yelikar to city police chief, requesting him to assign police constables for performing the last rites of people dying of Covid-19. The letter also complained about policemen not remaining present during the last rites of the Covid-19 patients. This request from Yelikar has not gone down well with policemen across all hierarchy. One of the senior police officers said the police personnel are neither medically trained nor duty bound to handled infectious bodies. Despite repeated attempts, Yelikar could not be reached for her comments. However, district administration officials have supported the views of the GMCH dean. When contacted, Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, "We have received the letter from the GMCH dean and are looking in to it. Our mend are already under stress due to exceeding duty hours and threats of getting infected." The officer citing technical limitations said that each time our policemen perform the last rites of a person dying of Covid-19, we will have to quarantine them for a period of 14 days. "We will look at all the legal, logical and moral perspectives before considering the dean’s request," Prasad said. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, seeks police presence during the last rites of Covid-19 positive patients. "I request you to personally pay attention and issue instructions to your subordinates so that they undertake the responsibility of performing last rites of patients dying of Covid-19," the letter read. The dean has also highlighted the concerns surrounding the issue of handing over the infected bodies to their kin. Any kind of mishandling will lead to the relatives getting infected. The letter went on to cite the example of 65-year-old woman’s body being handed over to her family in Bhavsinghpura area and said that it is essential to have police presence during the bandobast. Authorities informed that after the woman’s body was handed over to her relatives for last rites. Over 100 people reportedly had attended her funeral. This led to sudden panic in the district and the civic body administration had to work overtime to identify all those attended the funeral, and quarantine them. So far, 12 people have died across the district of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-presence-sought-for-last-rites-of-covid-patients/articleshow/75635361.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 9, 2020||Madurai||Three country bombs seized from house||MADURAI: The city police, on Friday, seized three country-made bombs from a house in Jai Nagar, Ponmeni and arrested a 29-year-old man, who has several cases pending against him. The SS Colony police, while looking for Sarathkumar N, who has several charges including criminal intimidation against him, raided the residence of his associate, Nitish Kumar, 23, in Ponmeni and seized three country-made bombs, explosive powder, nails and a long knife. The police also arrested Sarathkumar, who was hiding in the house. The SS Colony police said that an investigation is underway. The accused already has four cases pending against him, including three cases filed with SS Colony police station and one case filed with Nagamalai-Pudukottai police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-country-bombs-seized-from-house/articleshow/75637257.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||2 jawans ofrom SRPF booked for absconding||Aurangabad: Two state reserve police force (SRPF) jawans from Jalna have been booked for fleeing from duty in Malegaon.Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya told TOI, based on the complaint lodged by SRPF group III’s police inspector Vilas Jagtap an offence under relevant sections has been registered at Sadar Bazaar police station against the duo on Thursday.Sources in SRPF informed that though there have been cases of jawans suddenly absconding from duty, it is rare that offences are registered against them.An officer from Sadar Bazaar police station said the jawans are accused of fleeing from their duties during a posting that is part of an emergency duty."The jawans were part of an SRPF company posted at Malegaon to maintain law and order. As per the complaint, on April 29, the duo without intimating the company in-charge in Malegaon or the senior officers of the district police in Malegaon, went absconding. Later it was found that they did not even report to the SRPF headquarters in Jalna," police inspector Sanjay Deshmukh said."However, after being tracked, they were made to undergo test and on May 2 they were tested positive for Covid-19. They are currently undergoing treatment Government Hospital in Jalna," he added.Two SRPF companies from Jalna were posted in Mumbai and Malegaon to ensure implementation of the lockdown. So far, as many as 33 jawans posted in Malegaon have tested positive for Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment. In Mumbai, SRPF five jawans have tested positive for this respiratory disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-jawans-ofrom-srpf-booked-for-absconding/articleshow/75635378.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Mosque pelted with stones||Coimbatore: Tension prevailed for some time at Periyanaickenpalayam on Thursday night after stones were hurled at a mosque. Police acted fast and diffused the situation by nabbing a suspect.Secretary of Sunnath Val Jamath Masjid A S Abdul Rahman had lodged a complaint against C Manojkumar, 29, of Periyanaickenpalayam with the Periyanaickenpalayam police. “Glass window of the century-old-mosque were damaged after Manojkumar and some other people threw stones. No one was injured in the incident as the mosque was closed due to the lockdown,” a police officer said. “Manojkumar was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. He is not affiliated to any political party,” the officer added.The man was booked under sections 188, 269, 294 (b), 295 of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act, 1992, and was lodged in the sub-jail at Avinashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mosque-pelted-with-stones/articleshow/75636567.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Brace for post Covid-19 challenge: SRTMU V-C||Aurangabad: Udhav Bhosle, vice-chancellor for Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwadad University (SRTMU), Nanded, on Friday appealed to teachers and students to gear up for facing challenges that may arise after Covid-19 pandemic phase gets over. “The outbreak of novel coronavirus has not only shaken India but also entire world. Even if the spread of the virus gets contained in the near future, the education system will have to brace for sea-change in the teaching-learning process. Every stakeholder must develop a clear understanding about what lies ahead and gear up accordingly,” he said in a public address through social media. Sharing his views on post Covid-19 era in the field of education, Bhosle said that the online platforms and e-resources would be used more than before in future. “Every student and teacher must develop a sound understanding of online tools available for teaching and learning. The e-education ahead will also have lot of scope for self-learning and students as well as teachers develop their mindsets accordingly,” the V-C said. Appealing to the students to focus on the brighter side of the situation, Bhosle said the beginning of online era in the field of education have opened multiple avenues of e-learning. According to him, these avenues never got due attention in the past. “Open and free sources of knowledge have been there for last some years, but its utilisation was not taking place to the full potential so far.,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/brace-for-post-covid-19-challenge-srtmu-v-c/articleshow/75635385.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Panaji pay-parking resumes, operator cites revenue loss||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji has restarted pay-parking in the state capital after a hiatus of six weeks. It is presently operational for only 12 hours. “We started after obtaining permission from the CCP but we can only operate for 12 hours due to the lockdown,” the contractor Sohan Juwarker told TOI. He is receiving only around 50 percent of collections compared to the pre-lockdown period. “The number of cars are very low. All private establishments are only operating with 30-50% staff and everything is shut by 6.30 pm,” he added. Pay-parking has resumed for both two and four-wheelers in most stretches. “Thankfully, all our staff are in town and didn’t go back. We did face a loss during the lockdown and we are talking to the corporation. We provide accommodation for our boys and had to provide them with food and salaries. Everything was taken care of. The loss was equivalent to a loss of three to four months’ revenue,” he said. Pay-parking in the state capital, which began in February, came to a standstill on March 22. The Rs 1.6 crore pay parking contract between Juwarker Associates and CCP is valid for three years. The company had paid the corporation a bank guarantee and security deposit for the three-year contract. Before the lockdown, pay parking was operational 24 x7 including on Sundays and public holidays. A parking fee once paid, is considered valid for any other parking location within CCP’s jurisdiction for the duration of that particular time slot. Government vehicles are exempt from parking charges. CCP’s last pay-parking contract ended on April 30, 2017, and neither brought in the required revenue for the cash-strapped corporation, nor helped ease traffic congestion in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-pay-parking-resumes-operator-cites-revenue-loss/articleshow/75637267.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||No option but to end life: Kharra man blamed for Covid spread||Yavatmal: The 26-year-old Covid-19 positive paan kiosk owner, blamed for infecting several others through kharra (tobacco mix), has said because of the stigma there is no option left but to commit suicide. According to sources, the man had made his intention clear to a senior bureaucrat who visited him recently. “How can I go back to the area where I have been projected as a culprit who spread coronavirus. It is a blot on my character. I run a paan kiosk for my daily bread,” the man is reported to have told the bureaucrat. “Health department says one person has been infected because of me. But it was projected as if my kharra is the root cause of Covid spread in Pawarpura and adjoining Indira Nagar, which is incorrect,” he said. When contacted by TOI, the positive person purported to have been infected by the kharra man denied having met him earlier. “We met in the institutional quarantine for the first time and later brought here (isolation ward),” said the 57-year-old man, whom the survey by preventive medicine unit of health department projected as the kharra man’s close contact. When contacted, head of department of preventive medicine unit Dr Prabhakar Hiwarkar stood by the survey claim that the paan kiosk operator had infected 21 others through kharra. Contrary to the unit’s claims, a chart prepared by the GMCH shows the paanwallah had 24 close contacts of whom one tested positive, 22 negative and one inconclusive. The chart also reveals that a 57-year-old man and his 45-year-old wife, who used to sell rotis, had 73 close contacts of whom 30 tested positive, 27 negative and 16 inconclusive. The survey also claimed that another source of infection in Pawarpura were two community handpumps. There were seven positive cases in the vicinity of one handpump and six from the vicinity of the second. According to Dr Hiwarkar, “The unit presumed these cases are because of handpumps where a positive woman had gone to fetch water. This woman might have used one handpump, what about cases near the other handpump.” There are 10 other handpumps in containment localities of Pawarpura and Indira Nagar and no positive case was reported in the vicinity of those pumps, he said. Speaking to TOI, former state president of IMA Dr TC Rathod said there is no evidence to suggest chewing kharra spreads Covid. “Of course, chewing tobacco is injurious to health and one should discourage it. Not following social distancing, spitting and use of plastic pouches are some of the grounds that may spread Covid if it is done by an infected person,” he said. Another senior IMA functionary Dr Deepak Sawalakhe said chewing kharra is detrimental to human health as it contains tobacco, but it cannot be said it spreads Covid. There is no evidence to sugggest that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-option-but-to-end-life-kharra-man-blamed-for-covid-spread/articleshow/75636563.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Madurai||One dead in Tirunelveli, 20 new cases in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Tirunelveli district recorded its first Covid-19 death after an 83-year-old man from Melapalayam passed away in a containment zone in the district on Friday. He was the fifth casualty of the disease in south Tamil Nadu which now has a total of 528 cases, including five deaths. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the man had various co-morbid conditions. “He had a history of diabetes, hypertension, was a known-smoker and had lung disorder. There is no reason for panic. We will be continuing with the measures currently in place to prevent spread of Covid-19 in the district,” she told TOI. The man’s body was buried later in the day. The district further reported four fresh cases on Friday. Meanwhile, Madurai recorded two more on Friday. One of them was a 28-year-old doctor at a private hospital working in the isolation ward. The second was a 25-year-old pregnant woman of North Masi Street who had no travel history. Eight of the 20 new cases in south Tamil Nadu were from Kanyakumari district. They include a five-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy while the remaining are men. “They were among the nearly 500 people who travelled from other districts to Kanyakumari on May 5 and 6. They were stopped at the district entry at Kavalkinaru and taken to an identified facility at Kanyakumari,” district collector Prashant M Wadnere said. Names of six of the positive people along with their basic details and the seal of the Kanyakumari medical college hospital were circulated on the social media on Thursday, Prashant added. One of the three people who tested positive in Virudhunagar district is in Chennai. “He has not been to Virudhunagar for two years,” district collector R Kannan said. The two others who tested positive had travelled from Chennai to Virudhunagar on May 2. They were traced on May 3, tested and the results had come on Thursday evening. One case each were also reported in Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram, and Theni districts, all men who had contact history. Meanwhile, 23 Covid-19 patients, including 16 from Madurai, were discharged after attaning full recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1-dead-in-tirunelveli-20-new-cases-in-south-tn/articleshow/75637268.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Record 12 people succumb to contagion in 24 hrs in PMR||Pune: Twelve more patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Friday, the highest for a single day in Pune so far, taking the total casualty count in the region to 143. Twelve deaths were reported on April 8 as well. However, only 10 of them had occurred in the 24-hour period then, while two were previous casualties.Besides, 111 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday. With this, the number of patients has risen to 2,572 in the region. Of the deceased, nine patients were aged more than 60 and had co-morbidities. The Sassoon General Hospital reported three deaths, including a 76-year-old woman from Ghorpadi Peth, a 82-year-old woman from the Padmavati area and a 48-year-old man from the Tadiwala Road area. The district hospital in Aundh recorded two deaths in a 85-year-old woman from Yerawada and a 60-year-old woman, a resident of Shirur taluka from the rural part of Pune district. Various private hospitals in the city reported six deaths, including a 70-year-old woman Kasba Peth, two women aged 59 and 48 from Nana Peth, a 67-year-old resident of Padmavati, a 60-year-old man from Kondhwa and a 67-year-old woman from Rasta Peth. A 70-year-old woman from Shivajinagar succumbed to the infection at PMC-run Naidu hospital. The detection of new cases witnessed a drop of almost 50 after Thursday’s high of 161. A maximum of the fresh cases were detected in Pune Municipal Corporation area. About 14 fresh cases were reported in rural parts, while 5 in the limits of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. As many as 65 patients were declared cured and were discharged on Friday in PMR. In PCMC limits, 187 people were quarantined on Friday, taking the number of the total quarantined to 4,994 till now. As many as 74 patients are critical in PMR, of which a maximum of 66 are in PMC limits alone, while seven are in rural parts of the district, one is on PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/record-12-people-succumb-to-contagion-in-24-hrs-in-pmr/articleshow/75637269.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 9, 2020||Goa||GMC doctor suspended for alleged negligence||PANAJI: A senior resident attached to the radiology department of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, was placed under suspension pending inquiry for alleged negligence. The doctor was allegedly absent from duty when former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu was brought to GMC in a critical state on April 21. Deshprabhu was allegedly made to wait for more than half an hour for a CT scan after he was referred there by the department of medicine. A show cause notice was also issued to head of department, radiology, Dr Jeevan Vernekar, asking him to explain within seven days why action should not be taken against him for the negligence on the part of his department. “A casualty medical officer had accompanied Deshprabhu to the radiology department, but neither junior resident nor senior resident were present to do the CT scan,” said health minister Vishwajit Rane. The patient had to wait for 35 minutes, and I’m told this is happening on a regular basis,” the health minister said in his noting recommending the suspension of the doctor. Rane, in his note, said that Vernekar corroborated the April 21 incident when he met him later. Deshprabhu died a few hours after admission. His cause of death was given as pneumonia. A senior GMC official said that it was important that a senior resident ought to have been present on duty as per the roster. He said that the inquiry will bring out the extend of guilt, and also if anyone else was involved. Meanwhile, the Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) condemned the suspension of the senior resident. It stated that the suspension order was issued without constituting an institutional disciplinary committee in this case of alleged negligence. GARD, in its petition to the GMC dean, pointed out that this kind of action is unwarranted when the state and country are facing a pandemic. “The action by your office is demoralising and demotivating to serving students of the institution, who are already overburdened and stressed, working as frontline warriors in the ongoing pandemic,” stated the GARD letter. It has demanded an appropriate inquiry into the alleged incident, and for authorities to take the right decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-doc-suspended-for-alleged-negligence/articleshow/75637266.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Tasmac rakes in Rs 16 crore on Day 1||COIMBATORE: On Thursday, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) made sales to the tune of Rs 16.40 crore in the district, much higher than the average sales per day. After 43 days of dry spell, 206 Tasmac outlets were opened in the district with thousands of customers thronging the shops to buy liquor. As much as 19,936 India Made Foreign Spirits (IMFS) cases and 4,384 beer cases were sold on the first day. While the north zone has made about Rs 8.82 crore sales by selling 1,0394 IMFS cases and 2,452 beer cases, the south zone has made sales of about Rs 7.57 crore by selling 9,542 IMFS cases and 1,932 beer cases, according to an official of Tasmac. The average revenue of north zone is Rs 5 to Rs 5.5 crore and south zone is Rs 3 crore, the official said. “There are two reasons for increase in sales value. While many people purchased liquor to the maximum available quantity – mainly because the shops were opened after a long time – the other reason was hike in price,” an official said. According to officials, sales had come down considerably in the district on Friday. A salesman on condition of anonymity said, “Queues that were formed in front of the shops had extended up to a kilometre in most of the areas on the first day. But on Friday, it was just half of it.” As the shops were opened after more than 40 days, tipplers had the urgency to purchase as much as liquor possible on the first day itself, he said adding that the purchased quantity would last for another few days. Pointing out that lack of employment opportunities due to the closure of industries, he said that the crowd would further decrease in the upcoming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-rakes-in-rs-16cr-on-day-1/articleshow/75636581.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Lekhpal's 3-year-old son kidnapped for ransom in Mathura||AGRA: A three-year-old boy, whose father is a lekhpal in Mathura, was kidnapped allegedly by unidentified persons from outside his house in Parshuram Colony on Friday. The kidnappers left behind a hand scribbled note, demanding Rs 20 lakh for the boy's release. According to police, the kidnapping took place around 11 am, when the boy was returning home after playing with his friends in the neighbourhood. The boy's friend’s house is just a stone's throw away. However, no one witnessed the kidnapping due to the lockdown with residents remaining indoors, police said. When the boy did not show up for a long time, his mother went looking for him. When she failed to find him, she informed her husband. He called up police for help. Police said a note was later found with the boy's slipper. It claimed that the boy had been kidnapped and would be released after payment of Rs 20 lakh as ransom. Police are verifying the authenticity of the note. CCTV footage of the area is also being scanned by police to get clues about the kidnappers. Gaurav Grover, Mathura SSP, said an FIR for kidnapping has been registered on a complaint filed by the victim’s family. He said, “Teams have been formed to investigate the case and SP, rural, will look after the whole operation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lekhpals-3-yr-old-son-kidnapped-for-ransom-in-mathura/articleshow/75635394.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Special 43 to solve problems of patients, medics at care centres in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A total of 43 representatives of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were appointed in two batches to manage and resolve grievances of Covid-positive and suspected patients and medical professionals engaged at care centres, testing centres and hospitals. These representatives are also facilitators for medical professionals in case they find problems in getting lodging facilities in hotels. They also work as a line of communication between 21 testing centres and Covid care centres. Kejriwal, in a video conference, had asked them to be prompt in resolving the issues of patients and medical professionals. Manmohan Singh Narula, who was appointed on Wednesday, was allocated the testing centre at Fabula Hotel, Mianwali Nagar near Peeragarhi. “I assisted many Covid-positive people, who had mild symptoms, to shift to home isolation. We make sure that food is distributed among medical professionals and patients. Medical professionals and patients are given tea twice a day, breakfast at 9am, lunch at 1pm, snacks at 4pm and dinner at 8pm,” Narula said. Most of the representatives are social workers in their localities. Some of them are Aam Aadmi Party workers too. One representative said that he sent a message to various WhatsApp groups in three assembly constituencies that anyone in need of help regarding testing, quarantine facilities, hospitalisation and ambulance, could contact him. Manish Goel from Hari Nagar said he got a call late at night from a senior citizen informing him that his coronavirus test results had come out positive. “He is a diabetic and was suffering from anxiety. I arranged for an ambulance and shifted him to a government facility. Now his family members will also be tested. We are also extending emotional support to the families in distress,” he added. Vipin Rana, who is linked to the testing centre at BH Salvas in Chandan Park, on Friday found that due to lack of communication, the arrival of ambulances at testing centres for shifting patients to hospitals was sometimes delayed. The testing centres call the DM office or CATS on 102. “I have proposed to the CM office that one ambulance should be stationed outside each testing centre,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/special-43-to-solve-problems-of-patients-medics-at-care-centres/articleshow/75637274.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||HC takes suo motu cognisance of migrants’ plight||Nagpur: The plight and sufferings of poor migrants stranded on the outskirts of the city, on Outer Ring Road near Jamtha, has caught the attention of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. Quoting a media report highlighting their miseries, justice Rohit Deo on Friday treated the issue as public interest litigation and appointed Deven Chauhan as amicus curiae to draft the comprehensive petition by May 12. Chauhan, who submitted the media report to HC, informed that thousands of suffering migrants from various states are stranded in the city, after authorities refused to allow them to proceed to their hometowns. “Considering that the issue is not adversarial, the distress of the migrants may have to be addressed urgently. This court would request government pleader Sumant Deopujari to seek instructions from appropriate authorities without waiting for a formal petition,” justice Deo said. The nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak started a massive exodus of migrants, particularly from southern states northwards. Many were seen with their families, carrying children on their shoulders and walking to their destinations, braving scorching heat and rains, before they were stopped at the city’s outskirts by the police. A camp has been set up by the district administration for them near Jamtha, where they’re provided food and water with the help of NGOs. All of them are screened for Covid-19 symptoms and provided proper medical care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-migrants-plight/articleshow/75636578.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Spl train with 1,140 guest workers leave for Bihar||Coimbatore: The first special train, carrying as many as 1,140 guest workers stranded in the district, left for Bihar from the Coimbatore Railway Junction on Friday. It is expected to reach Saharsa district on Sunday.Some workers from Bihar, who were staying in Pollachi, Kinathukedavu, Perur and Coimbatore south taluks, left on the non-stop train, a district administration official said. “They were brought to the station in private buses and made to undergo temperature screening before they were let inside the station. Tokens were distributed to them.”Seating arrangements were made to ensure physical distance between the passengers of the 24 compartments, a southern railway official said.Another train to Bihar will be operated on Saturday and subsequently, a train service or two per day will be operated to the other states, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said. “Out of the one lakh guest workers in the district, 22,000 had expressed desire to go back to their states. The fares are borne by the state government,” he said.Shivshankar Yadav, who had been working at a bakery near the government hospital, said he decided to go back as his family is worried about him. “They had been asking me to return as soon as possible. Even though I managed to get food with the help of volunteers, I did not get my wages as the bakery owner had left for his state,” he told TOI. “I will definitely come back to Coimbatore once normalcy returns.”But it was not a smooth ride for all. Sagar Kumar, who walked 16 kilometres to reach the station with a friend, though they would miss the train. “Our company in Thondamuthur was closed for over 40 days. We didn’t even have money for food. It had become very difficult to continue here and that’s why we decided to go back to Bihar. But we came to know that we needed tokens to enter the station only after reaching there. We had registered on the portal but were not aware of the rest of the procedures,” he said. The duo finally was able to board the train, thanks to the intervention of Perur tahsildar Radhakrishnan.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spl-train-with-1140-guest-workers-leave-for-bihar/articleshow/75636571.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa to work out SOP before letting tourists in: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state government would come out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) — which will include stringent screening — to promote Goa as Covid-free state before it opens its borders to welcome tourists. “Tourism will definitely be impacted for a while, so we have to bear the heat,” he said. “Coronavirus will persist over the next year, hence it is necessary to screen tourists visiting Goa,” he added. “The state will screen each tourist and will test them for Covid-19. Only then will they be allowed to visit.” He was responding to a question over the rationale behind allowing tourists into Goa amid the pandemic. Stating the tourism was Goa’s second-largest industry after mining, the chief minister told reporters that although the nationwide lockdown could be extended beyond May 17, the state would formulate a plan once the Centre works out an SOP for tourism activities. The CM reiterated that the state’s borders are sealed, and said that people are only allowed in after they’re tested for Covid-19. He also said the state is likely to introduce a scheme to help unemployed youth from the tourism industry land jobs in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). Tourism became the state’s major source of revenue while uncertainty over the resumption of mining activities prevailed. The current tourist season, however, had a sluggish start and was subsequently impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in the closure of numerous hotels and allied establishments. Goa receives over 60 lakh tourists every year. The chief minister said the pharma industry, agriculture and MSMEs have begun full-fledged operations in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-work-out-sop-before-letting-tourists-in-cm/articleshow/75637272.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||13-yr-old girl discharged from hospital after 28 days, two children cured too||Pimpri Chinchwad: A 13-year-old Covid-19 patient was discharged from the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri on Friday, 28 days after she was admitted to the health hub. “The girl was asymptomatic and admitted to the hospital on April 12. Her first swab sample was sent to the National Institute of Virology for analysis 14 days after she was hospitalised. She was discharged from hospital after her ninth and 10th swab samples tested negative. She was the only Covid-19 patient who was in the hospital for such a long time,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Altogether 15 patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday, the highest in a day so far. Among them were two three-year-old girls,” said Rajendra Wabale, dean, postgraduate institute at the YCM hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-yr-old-girl-discharged-from-hospital-after-28-days-two-children-cured-too/articleshow/75637273.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa governor urged to take up seafarers’ cause with Centre||PANAJI: The Goan Seamen Association of India on Friday met governor Satya Pal Malik over their demand of repatriating seafarers back to India. “The governor assured us that he would take up the issue with the Centre,” said cofounder of the association Dixon Vaz. He was accompanied by leader of opposition Digambar Kamat. “We told him that the Goan seafarers were the first to give their names to embassies around two months ago, but they don’t feature on the 67 Air India flights to India. We told him that delay in bringing the crew back would lead to more mental stress and distress,” Vaz said. He said Malik was informed that if there is delay in bringing back seafarers this would have repercussions on their getting recruited again by the same companies. Meanwhile, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) has assured the ssociation that it will highlight the issue of Goan seafarers stranded overseas, to non-governmental organisations that are in consultative status with the IMO as well as maritime authorities of India. In a response to a letter by the association, IMO stated that it has recommended to governments and national authorities to grant professional seafarers and marine personnel necessary and appropriate exemptions from national travel or movement restrictions in order to facilitate their joining or leaving ships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/governor-urged-to-take-up-seafarers-cause-with-centre/articleshow/75637270.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth murdered by drunk roommate||Coimbatore: A 21-year-old taxi driver was killed by his roommate over a drunken brawl at KRG Nagar near Ganapathy early on Friday. The deceased, E Siva alias Sivakumar, 21 from Uthamapalayam in Theni district, was staying at a rented room at KRG Nagar near Ganapathy, along with S Manikandan, 23, a car mechanic from Velayuthampalayam in Karur district, and four others.On Thursday night, they were drinking at their room when Sivakumar, who was in love, used a razor to inflict injuries on his hand upon remembering his girlfriend. Manikandan laughed at Siva and advised him against causing self-harm in the name of his girlfriend. However, arguments turned into a heady quarrel between the two, but the two were pacified by their roommates, following which all of them went to sleep. On Friday around 4 am, Manikandan woke up in a fit of rage and assaulted Siva using a dumbbell and left the place.Sivakumar was found dead in a pool of blood by his roommates, who informed police. The Saravanampatti police sent the body for postmortem and registered a case against Manikandan under IPC Section 302 (murder).Manikandan was produced before a judicial magistrate and later remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-murdered-by-drunk-roommate/articleshow/75636588.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||‘Allow repatriation flights to land here’||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP)’s three MLAs and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte met governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday and submitted a written letter for Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission for repatriation flights to land in Goa and to declare Goa International Airport and Mormugao Port Trust as Ports-of-Entry (PoE) for the returning overseas Goans. The NDA ally also petitioned Modi and the Centre to expedite the repatriation of Goan seafarers and Goans stranded in other countries. “It is our urgent plea to advice the National Executive Committee (NEC) to grant immediate permission to open up the Goa International Airport at Dabolim, for repatriation of Goan seafarers and other non-resident Goans stranded abroad and allow free home quarantine, as per the provisions of International Health Regulations, 2005, and other WHO and MoHFW quarantine guidelines,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said. The primary goal of a timely and effective response in the face of the ongoing pandemic “is saving lives, protecting property, environment, and meeting basic needs of human beings” said the letter quoting the national disaster management plan 2019. “In this context, we wish to bring to your attention the dire situation of thousands of Goan seafarers and others stranded on foreign shores and lands due to this pandemic and face a real threat to their health and lives,” Khaunte said. The four MLAs said that many of the shipping companies are willing to charter flights to repatriate their crew members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-repatriation-flights-to-land-here/articleshow/75637275.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Agra||Man found Covid +ve after death, family members yet to be tested||Agra: In yet another case of medical negligence in Agra, 12 members of the family of a man who died on Tuesday and later found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, have not been tested so far. According to the family members, even after two days of delay, they have not received any call from the health department for sample collection for Covid-19. The man's wife is a diabetes patient and is reportedly having problem in breathing. Besides, the family also has four children and a pregnant woman. Local residents further claimed that no sanitisation has been done in the locality. A 55-year-old resident of Nagla Fakirchand near Idgha bus stand had fever on May 3. His son brought medicine from nearby medical shop and gave it to him. The medicine brought temporary relief. According to family members, around 3am on May 5, the elderly man started having breathing difficulties along with mild fever. He was taken to a private hospital in Arjun Nagar locality which refused to provide treatment. At 5am, he was taken to SN Medical College. After being admitted at the emergency ward at 5:30am, the patient was provided oxygen and the treatment process began. His elder son, who was allowed to stay with him at the emergency ward, said, “After around two hours of being admitted, my father again started having problems in breathing. The oxygen cylinder attached to him had finished. I rushed to the reception for help. A staffer there assured me of looking into it. But, no one came to provide an oxygen cylinder even after 10 minutes of delay. I again went to the reception for help. The staffers told me not to come again and again, and an oxygen cylinder was being arranged. At 8am, I found my father dead, when I returned to his bed." “My father was found to be Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Even after much delay no one from the health department has come to screen us. I am trying to get Covid-19 tests done. But, officials are not answering our calls. My mother suffers from diabetes. She is also having breathing difficulties. We also have four children and a pregnant woman in the family," the son added. “The health department should get all of the family members tested for Covid-19 immediately. We are already following home quarantine and need not be shifted to some other place," he added. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “I will look into the matter and check why there is a delay in the screening of the family members of a Covid-19 patient who died on May 5. Samples of all the family members will be collected for lab testing soon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-found-covid-ve-after-death-family-members-yet-to-be-tested/articleshow/75635400.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 9, 2020||Agra||Missing for 8 months, Etah cops reunite Jalaun woman with son||Agra: During routine patrolling to enforce lockdown, an Etah police team chanced upon a lone women sitting under a tree. When the policemen approached her, they realised something was not right. They took to her to the police station, where after being fed, she uttered one word, "Jaluan". It was enough to begin tracing her antecedent. Two days later, on Friday, the woman was united with her family, who had given up hope of seeing her again. The woman was identified as Satayvati, wife of Raj Kumar from Gulkhas village under Kalpi police limits, Jalaun. She had been missing for the past eight months. It is suspected that she wandered out of her house and could not find her way back as she is mentally backward. On Wednesday afternoon, she was found on Aliganj-Etah road, near Harnwali village, by Bagwala police team led by sub inspector K L Meena. “She was in a terrible condition and could not even speak. Therefore, SI Meena called team of women constables, who took Satayvati to the station, where her thermal screening was done. She was offered food, water and medicine. Hours later, our women cops enquired about her identity and her residence. Satyavati is mentally weak, therefore she couldn’t tell the exact location of her house. But she told us that her brother lived in Jalaun. After that, we contacted Jalaun police, and enquired about any missing woman matching Satyavati's description. Fortunately, Kalpi police station confirmed Satyavati's identity and her family members were contacted,” said SHO, Bagwala, Vipin Tyagi. Tyagi said Satyavati was missing since September 13. Her family had assumed she was dead and had conducted her last rites, When informed that she had been found, they were eager to meet her. "But since the family is extremely poor, we arranged for their travel pass and some money to travel to Etah,” the SHO said. Satyavati’s son, Vimlesh Kumar, came to Etah to take her home. The mother-son were happy to see other, added Tyagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-for-8-months-etah-cops-reunite-jalaun-woman-with-son/articleshow/75635409.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Drunk driving claims 1st life during lockdown||Coimbatore: Two people were killed and as many injured in two separate road accidents in the district on Thursday.One of the incidents was a case of drunk driving that was reported on the very day when Tasmac outlets reopened in the district. According to the traffic investigation wing (west) police, the incident took place when N Vinith, 24, of Idayarpalayam near Kuniyamuthur, and his friend M Shahrukh Khan, 25, of Pollachi, were heading to Athupalam from Kuniyamuthur on a motorcycle after consuming liquor.A police officer said, “Both were drunk. Vinith, who was riding the motorcycle, lost control over the vehicle and rammed the compound wall of a crematorium at Athupalam. Passers-by rushed them to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where Vinith succumbed to his severe head injuries without responding to treatment on Friday. After postmortem, his body was handed over to the family members in the afternoon.”In the second incident, a 60-year-old woman was killed and her 70-year-old husband injured after a truck hit the moped that they were travelling in at Pathuvampalli Pirivu.The Karumathampatti police identified the deceased as S Rukkumani, of Sangamanaickenpalayam near Pathuvaampalli. Her husband K Shanmugam escaped with injuries.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drunk-driving-claims-1st-life-during-lockdown/articleshow/75636592.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: No funds to help workers, say finance department officials||PUNE: The state government would be short of Rs1.4 lakh crore, or 40 % of the projected revenue for the 2020-21 fiscal, if any financial package were announced for the migrant workers’ assistance, sources in the finance department said on Friday. With the Central government yet to release around Rs20,000 crore of Maharashtra’s share of Goods Services Tax (GST), finance department officials stated that it was impossible to announce any kind of financial package for the workers who have stayed back or those travelling in the time of Covid-19. The office of deputy CM Ajit Pawar released a statement, saying it would be ensured that all the workers applying for passes would be sent back home and that they should not take any risk of walking back home. In his statement, Pawar said all necessary arrangements were being for the migrant workers’ safe return to home. A senior retired bureaucrat said the state government’s approach towards the issue was “harsh”, compelling the migrant workers to walk back to their home. “First you keep them back in relief camps and then you make them pay for their travel. This is unfair,” said the retired bureaucrat. Retired bureaucrat TC Benjamin told TOI, “Trains should have been provided long time back for the migrant workers to travel back to their homes. Let us not waste any more time.” CPM activist Shubha Shamim said the way the lockdown was imposed on March 24 “gave only a four-hour notice and no steps were taken for the following five weeks for the distressed migrants”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-funds-to-help-workers-say-finance-dept-officials/articleshow/75637277.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Shops open but uncertainty over supplies remains||Nagpur: Though stationery and hosiery shops are now allowed to open in green zones within city, the businesses are hoping their supply chains are back on track at the earliest. A hosiery shop owner, who did not wish to be identified, told TOI the government should have first taken care of the supply chain. “I have stock of about a week as not much can be stored in our shops. Almost all of us are located in small shops and bylanes, so we prefer to keep weekly rolling stock,” he said. “My dealer has his storeroom in Gandhibagh, which is not accessible to him now. The dealer says he used lease a tempo whose owner is not ready to come. The contract workers are also not ready to come due to lack of permissions,” said the owner. Same is the situation for book depots but they are hopeful of replenishing stock. Anand Chopda, owner of Novelty Book Depot, said, “We too have limited stock of textbooks and this is the season when bulk buying happens. I spoke to publishers in Delhi who said they have stock but transportation could be an issue. Apparently their association has already reached out to the Centre and if things go our way, then within days the logistics will be in place.” Talks are on between schools and book depot owners on whether textbooks can be home delivered. Plan is for schools to give the option of home delivery to parents through group message. Book depot owners will however be able to deliver only in green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shops-open-but-uncertainty-over-supplies-remains/articleshow/75636590.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 9, 2020||Agra||Over 1,200 AMU students return to Bihar via special train||Agra: The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) administration made arrangements for transportation of students from Bihar by a special train on Friday. Over 1,200 students, who were stranded in the city following a nationwide lockdown, were scheduled to return home after going through a medical screening. Registrar of the university Abdul Hamid confirmed that a list of 1,282 students was provided by the Dean Students’ Welfare (DSW) office and transportation facility was arranged accordingly. He said that all students would be home quarantined after reaching their destinations, as per discussions with the state government. Earlier, on May 1, 2,300 students from UP’s various districts were transported back to their respective hometowns by buses within a span of three days. According to the registrar, now around 600 students – including 350 from J&K, 200 from West Bengal and 150 from Assam – still remain in the AMU hostel. “They will also be sent back to their respective states soon. Talks are on with other state officials regarding their transportation,” said Hamid. Additional city magistrate (I) Kuldev Singh, present at the time of the train’s departure, said that the train will drop these students at Bihar’s Purnia junction, from where the local administration will make arrangements for their further travel. “Seats in all the 20 coaches have been allotted in a way that will ensure that students maintain social distancing,” he said, adding that food packets and water bottles have been distributed to them. “Out of 1,282 students, around 56 were those who came to appear for their 9th and 11th entrance examinations and got stuck due to the sudden lockdown across the nation. They are also going back today,” added Singh. Farheen Razana, a student of BA first year who was returning to Kishanganj by the train, expressed happiness and thanked the state government and AMU administration for sending them back to their hometowns during the lockdown period. Earlier, the university administration had advised its students who were stuck in the campus to take advantage of the proposed relaxation facility announced by the government and return to their hometowns in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the district and consequent potential risk of infection in hostels. “As no class, examination and entrance tests are scheduled for months May and June, students should avail this facility as the same may not be available in the future,” the notice issued among students read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-1200-amu-students-return-to-bihar-via-special-train/articleshow/75635423.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka issues fresh guidelines for inter-state travel||Dharwad: Close on the heels of the Union ministry of home affairs allowing inter-state travel, the state government issued fresh guidelines to help easy and hassle-free passage of migrant labourers, tourists, devotees and students, stranded far from their homes. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan called on migrants in the district, and residents of Dharwad to utilise the opportunity to return home. “Those wishing to return home must obtain e-passes, and if they can arrange transport by themselves, there is no hurdle,” she said. Obtaining an e-passThose keen on obtaining passes to leave Dharwad must visit the website: www.sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in, and register their names under the appropriate list. An acknowledgement will be sent to their mobile phones. The application will subsequently be verified, and approved by the nodal officers of Karnataka, and the state that the applicant wishes to return. An SMS with a link to get the e-pass will later be sent to the applicant, who will have a week to use it. The applicant will have to download the ‘Service Plus’ app through the Google Playstore. However, Deepa pointed out that all individuals would have to adhere to safety norms such as use of hand sanitiser and maintaining adequate social distancing. She said that the restrictions on the number of people who could travel in cars (three), SUVs (five), vans (10) and buses (25) would remain in place. People must carry a government-issued identity card, she added. “While those displaying Covid-19 symptoms will be quarantined at hospitals, asymptomatic individuals will be placed under institutional quarantine,” Deepa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-inter-state-travel/articleshow/75624920.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Inmates happy at quarantine centres||COIMBATORE: Hours after videos of protests at the quarantine facility at the Chennai Trade Centre went viral on WhatsApp and Facebook, health and revenue department officials inspected all the four isolation centres in the district to ensure all basic facilities were in place. At least 42 people are in quarantine at these facilities. The district, meanwhile, didn’t report any new Covid-19 case for the fifth consecutive day on Friday. The district had earlier converted two schools, a college and a lodge into quarantine facilities with individual rooms, fans, adequate bathroom, and beds with new cots and clean sheets. Food is served to them by a known catering service provider in the city. While Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said they hadn’t received any complaints regarding amenities so far, a revenue department officer said general issues with isolation like loneliness and boredom might be there. Selvin, who is in quarantine at Perks School, said he and three others had returned to the city from Maharashtra, where they were working, on Thursday. “The food is good, and we have spacious individual rooms, which are probably classrooms. Though it is hot, we manage because there are fans. The centre is not crowded and there are only four of us. Since it is a large campus, we get to go out for walks and enjoy fresh air.” The inmates had requested for some toiletries, which the city corporation officials have promised to arrange. While the rooms are cramped and stepping out for walks is not possible in some quarantine facilities like the lodge in Mettupalayam, the inmates are happy with the provision of individual rooms with fans and televisions. The deputy director of public health said, “We didn’t have any complaints from the Tablighi Jamaat conference delegates either. The schools and lodges have enough facilities for them to charge their electronics too, so that they can stay in touch with their families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/inmates-happy-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75636598.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Trichy||All 213 veggie market samples test negative||Trichy: The 213 samples collected from vendors, loadmen and drivers in the wholesale and retail vegetable markets of the city tested negative for Covid-19. After the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai became a hotspot, the Trichy Corporation collected 180 samples from G Corner wholesale vegetable market and 33 samples from Chathiram retail vegetable market. Five samples of loadmen were suspected to be Covid-19 positive. So retests were conducted, and the corporation on Friday confirmed that all 213 results were negative. Residents have asked the corporation to enhance surveillance at the markets, even as the civic body is planning to shift focus towards frontline workers like policemen, revenue department officials and sanitary workers. “We are going to conduct swab tests for frontline workers exposed to the containment zones,” a senior corporation official told TOI. On Friday, tests were conducted on 100 police personnel. Meanwhile, a fresh containment zone was established at Jalal Kudiri street on Madurai Road after a 23-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6. “The woman had visited her mother’s house in Alwarthope containment zone. A few of her relatives had visited her. We are tracing and directing them to be on home quarantine,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-213-veggie-market-samples-test-negative/articleshow/75636599.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Corpn may relocate Puthur fish market||Trichy: Construction work on a new fish market complex in Kasivilangi on Kulumani Road is almost complete and the Trichy Corporation is likely to relocate the congested Puthur fish market to the new building in the next couple of weeks. In 2016, after residents near the Puthur fish market started complaining of the unhygienic conditions, the corporation, proposed to establish a new market in Kasivilangi. The works at an estimated cost of Rs3.32 crore was taken up subsequently, but was not completed. With the market complex work almost complete, as many as 25 retail shops on a 6,905sqft space and seven wholesale shops on 3,950sqft area are to ncome up. “Only a few pending works are remaining. We could shift the Puthur fish market to Kasivilangi within this month,” a senior corporation official said. On Friday morning, corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian inspected the work in the market and sensitized the workers to adhere to Covid-19 preventive measures. “We are facing sanitary issues due to the unhygienic condition at Puthur fish market. It has to be relocated at the earliest,” Allur K Srinivasan, a resident of Puthur said. Once the market is shifted to Kasivilangi, the civic body has planned to establish an air-conditioned commercial complex at a cost of Rs 20 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-may-relocate-puthur-fish-market/articleshow/75636610.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 9, 2020||Delhi||After five cases, NGO seeks screening of all homeless in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After five occupants in central Delhi’s Jhandewalan tested positive on Friday, a welfare organisation demanded all homeless living in night shelters across the city be screened for the novel coronavirus. The swabs of these people were collected after a 32-year-old caretaker at a shelter tested Covid-positive earlier this week. Centre for Holistic Development (CHD), an NGO for homeless, said the caretaker was involved in distribution of food at four night shelters in the area. There were 56 residents at the shelter where the caretaker tested positive. The entire cluster of four shelters has 206 occupants. The district officials said those tested positive on Friday were immediately shifted to a government covid-care centre. “We are drawing up the list of contacts, while samples of those who came in close contact will be taken soon,” said an official, adding that the four centres have already been sealed and occupants quarantined. Aunil Kumar Aledia, founder CHD, said,“The caretaker not only served food at the four shelters but also visited several places in the last few days. The authorities initially took samples of only 23 who came in his close contact.” Since homeless are often found going from one shelter to another, Aledia added that it was time that the government screened all homeless living in the capital. “Medical camps should be held to screen homeless people. Samples should be taken of those who have symptoms to ensure the virus does not spread,” he said. Aledia added that another shelter in the neighbourhood in Motia Khan was housing 92 homeless families, over 400 people, in violation of the social distancing norms. “The government should ensure their samples are taken too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-5-cases-ngo-seeks-screening-of-all-homeless/articleshow/75637291.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Agra||One killed, 6 injured in three accidents on Agra-Lucknow e-way||Agra: Three back-to-back road accidents, that left one dead and many injured, were reported on Agra-Lucknow expressway on Friday. The first accident occurred near milestone 60km, when a truck carrying a consignment of tea to Anand Nagar in Delhi from Shillong, jumped off the road and plunged into roadside farmland. According to police, the driver had fallen asleep on the wheel and lost control. He sustained minor injuries. In the second accident, a family taking an ill woman to Saifai government hospital in their private van, met with an accident near milestone 82km, at around 8am. One man was killed on the spot, while four others were injured, including a woman who was reported to be in critical condition. Jagdish Singh, chief security officer of UPEDIA patrol team, said, “The van’s front right tyre had deflated on the way, bringing the van to a sudden halt. Seconds later, a speeding SUV hit it from the rear, at which the van veered and collided with the divider and turned turtle. All the injured were rushed to a hospital in Saifai nearby, while the body of the deceased was sent for autopsy.” CO (Karhal) Ashok Kumar said, “The deceased, who was part of the family in the van, was identified as Harishankar (40) of Kalyanpur in Etawah. The SUV was heading for Kannauj from Ahmedabad. Both vehicles have been seized. We’re waiting for a written complaint to be filed in the matter.” The third accident occurred at milestone 67km at around 1.30pm, when a rider lost control of his motorbike on Agra-Lucknow expressway. He suffered minor injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-killed-6-injured-in-three-accidents-on-agra-lucknow-e-way/articleshow/75635414.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded Pak citizens reach home, praise prompt service on both sides||Nagpur: A batch of 193 Pakistani citizens stranded in India, majority of them Hindus, have reached their homes after crossing the border on May 5. All have tested negative for Covid-19 and sent after spending 24 hours in the quarantine centre at Lahore, said those contacted by TOI. The batch of 193 included 49 held up at Nagpur. Most of them were from Sindh province of Pakistan. The services on the Pakistani side were prompt, said the travellers. “We started from Nagpur on May 3 and reached Amritsar on May 5. As we reached Pakistan, we were sanitized and the doctors took our throat swabs. After 24 hours, each of us got a call saying we had tested negative. Buses were arranged for our further travel from Lahore to Ghotki district in Sindh,” said Satyavan Chawla, who had come to India on a pilgrim visa and was held up at Nagpur. “On our request they served us vegetarian food in the morning. Coaches were ready for our travel to our homes in Sindh,” said Chawla. “There were quarantine facilities at the university hostels, apart from paid services at hotels. The rooms were spacious and had air-conditioning and ovens,” said Rajkumar Setiya, another traveller from Nagpur. As we crossed over, everything else was taken care of. Our homes in Sindh are 700km from Lahore, but the government did not charge us for the transport, said Ashok Kumar from Ghotki in Sindh. “The travel could happen due to prompt response by the authorities from Nagpur. DCP special branch Shweta Khedkar and resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanji ensured the clearances were given in time,” said Rajesh Jhambia of Sindh Hindi Panchayat who coordinated the travel. Ishaq Khan Khakwani, former railway minister and now a senior functionary of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) party, said, “The facilities have improved a lot from initial days. We are getting stranded persons from UK, US, Canada and the middle-east. Private facilities are available too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-pak-citizens-reach-home-praise-prompt-service-on-both-sides/articleshow/75636602.cms||Shishir Arya
May 9, 2020||Goa||GSL restarts building warships||Panaji: Construction of military warships at Goa Shipyard Limited has picked up pace even though raw material supply and key equipment deliveries remain hampered due a breakdown in the global supply chain, said GSL chairman and managing director Bharat Bhushan Nagpal. Keeping in mind the threat posed by Covid-19, GSL has put in place measures for minimal interaction at the defence shipyard. “Production activities are gradually picking up pace and the manpower strength is being increased in a phased manner. The current Covind-19 situation has affected the supply chain and availability of original equipment with manufacturers in other states. However, GSL is confident to overcome the constraints by taking various innovative measures to meet the stringent project timelines,” said Nagpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-restarts-building-warships/articleshow/75637284.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Mad rush at Tasmac shops, shut them till lockdown is lifted: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Livid over the chaos at liquor shops across the state, the Madras high court on Friday indicted authorities for blatant violation of conditions laid down by it to resume liquor sale on May 7, and ordered immediate closure of all shops till end of the lockdown. “The online sale recommended by this court was not even put to test. The social or physical distancing norms and wearing of masks were not followed. Number of bottles to be sold to each buyer, as restricted by this court, was also flouted. The selling conditions based on age, as mentioned in the guidelines, were also not followed. And the Supreme Court on Friday observed that sates should consider home delivery of liquor/indirect sale during lockdown,” said a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana while passing interim orders on a batch of petitions through video-conferencing on Friday. Welcoming the verdict, Makkal Neethi Maiyam chief and actor Kamal Haasan in a tweet attributed it to the voices of women in Tamil Nadu. The judges, in their order, said it is open to the state government and Tasmac to home-deliver liquor during the lockdown, and the 30,000-odd contractual employees of the state vendor could be used for the purpose after due medical examination. There is currently no legal provision for home-delivery of alcohol in the country, except in West Bengal and Punjab. Tamil Nadu can make appropriate amendments to rules to build a technology-based home delivery model to promote responsible consumption of alcohol. “It is brought to the notice of this court that about 3,850 shops across the state were opened, and there was a record sale of Rs 175 crore. The above scenario reported after day one of the reopening only go to show that the state machinery is out of control either in disciplining the crowd or even in the process of sales,” HC said. The judges said they were startled by photos, videos and reports in the media, and added deploying police personnel to control crowded tipplers would also put police personnel’s lives at risk, besides preventing them from discharging their duties in places where their services are really required. “Now what worries this court is this mad rush for liquor by thousands of people without following any norms prescribed by the state, Tasmac authorities or by this court, would only lead to witnessing the form of surge of new clusters as opined by epidemiologists and public health experts,” they said. The judges took note of the mad rush of people at Koyambedu wholesale market that had to be closed after it emerged as a super-spreader of Covid-19 cases, and said Tasmac shops should not become similar clusters. They also referred to media reports on spike in domestic violence cases and death of four people after Tasmac shops were reopened. The judges then adjourned the case to May 14 for further proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-mad-rush-at-tasmac-shops-shut-them-till-lockdown-is-lifted/articleshow/75636625.cms||Sureshkumar
May 9, 2020||Trichy||LPG deliverymen want Covid-19 tests||TRICHY: LPG cylinder deliverymen in Trichy have appealed to the district administration to consider them as frontline workers as they deliver to various households, including those in containment zones, and test them for Covid-19. A total of 670 people, inclduing 400 in the city deliver LPG cylinders across the district. Though they are provided face masks and sanitizers, the deliverymen say they are vulnerable to contract Covid-19 as they cover at least 50 houses a day. “If one of the deliverymen is infected, authorities will have to quarantine hundreds of houses. There are more than one lakh deliverymen and fieldworkers involved in cylinder distribution in the state,” state president of Tamil Nadu LPG Cylinder Deliverymen Employees Union (TNLCDEU), R Ganesh said. “Testing the deliverymen will help them serve the people without fear,” K A Subramanyam, an LPG cylinder distributor from Cantonment said. However, corporation officials said that mass testing for LPG deliverymen will force them to test online food aggregators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lpg-deliverymen-want-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75636623.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Only one new +ve case in central dists||TRICHY: Only one new Covid-19 positive case was reported in Trichy on Friday. Also, a Covid-19 positive woman, who tested negative in the second test, delivered a baby girl on Friday. Apart from this, no new case was reported from the central districts. A 60-year-old man from Lalgudi in Trichy rural, returned from Koyambedu in Chennai few days back, tested positive on Friday and was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital. With this, the number of active cases in the district is now 12, all of them were linked to Koyambedu cluster. Most of them are residents in rural parts of the district. There have been 63 positive cases in the district including 51 from the TJ cluster and 12 linked to Koyambedu. All the TJ patients recovered after the treatment at MGM. There was also some good news today as a 32-year-old woman, from Lebbaikudikadu in Perambalur, who had tested positive, delivered a healthy baby girl weighing 2.5kg through caesarean section. A senior doctor said that the woman turned negative for Covid-19 in the second test but will be kept under observation. The baby was kept with the mother for breastfeeding as the mother turned negative. The woman and the new born were stable. The doctors will lift the samples on Saturday. No new cases were recorded in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The results of 563 samples from Ariyalur district, which included 309 samples sent to MGM and 254 sent to Ariyalur Government hospital, are awaited. Out of the 240 active Covid-19 cases reported in Ariyalur, 76 are admitted at Ariyalur GH and nine at Trichy GH. The remaining are admitted in quarantine facilities and Covid Care Centres. In Perambalur, with 68 active cases, results of 437 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-one-new-ve-case-in-central-dists/articleshow/75636628.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kochi||Cops go hi-tech to catch infiltrators at the border||Idukki: A police team headed by south zone IG Harshitha Attalluri identified 16 forest paths that were used by many people to sneak in to the state from Tamil Nadu, violating lockdown restrictions. This was accomplished by analysing mobile technologies and plotting the data on previous infiltration bids and human intrusions in forests areas which were collected from police and forest departments over the past six months on Google Earth.It helped pinpoint the likely forest paths used for infiltration and police monitored identified areas. Also, local intelligence was used to ensure that the joint patrolling was effective in the right areas as forests cover wide areas.“We arrested four persons at Kunkirippetty near Chellarcovil from the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border around 7am on Friday. They were shifted to quarantine centre at Kumily Shikshak Sadan. The Covid-19 cases are largely increasing in Theni district of TN and police and forest department jointly conduct searches to locate infiltrators,” said Attalluri.“We also use drones to prevent illegal entry from Tamil Nadu. Residents along Kerala border are vigilant and they inform if people from Tamil Nadu try to enter here,” said Attalluri.After Idukki was classified as a Covid-19 hotspot, government had appointed IG Attalluri to seal the porous border with TN. Government had also appointed Vaibhav Saxena, who is the commandant of Kerala Armed Police battalion-1 as special officer for Idukki. The special team is continuing searches with the help of Idukki SP P K Madhu and Kumily CI V K Jayaprakash.Munnar assistant forest conservator Martin Lowel said, “The main illegal entry point from Tamil Nadu is through Bodimettu forests near the border. Forest department deputed more officials to tackle the illegal entry.”“On March 4, cardamom estate workers had died at Rasingapuram along Kerala-TN border while they were returning home through forest route and were stuck amid the blaze. Normally, over 150 jeeps would ferry cardamom estate workers from TN to Kerala,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-go-hi-tech-to-catch-infiltrators-at-the-border/articleshow/75634225.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Belt shops back in full swing in AP||Vijayawada: With a limited number of liquor shops becoming operational across the state, belt shops have again sprung up to capitalize the rising demand. On Thursday, the police held a man possessing 69 bottles of liquor at Nagarjunasagar in Guntur district and found him selling the produce by charging over 125% on the MRP mentioned in the label. The state government has already increased the value of liquor by charging 75% tax on each bottle soon after the shops were allowed to operate on May 4. Excise sleuths noted that illegal sale of liquor had once again started where people are being caught with liquor bottles at various checkposts in the state border areas. Even around midnight on Thursday, cops noted that miscreants broke into a wine shop in Jaggadiguntapalem village of Tenali mandal in Guntur district. They broke into the wine shop, which did not have a CCTV camera, and stole about 111 liquor bottles worth Rs 80,000. Police suspect that the miscreants stole the bottles to sell across Telangana border. Despite the huge price increase in liquor, the demand is still much higher than the supply. Many liquor outlets under Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL) witnessed unprecedented business where many shops shut on day two due to lack of stock. So far, excise officials have seized 2,153 litres of hard liquor and 1,506 litres of beer since March 22 till May 2 across Andhra Pradesh. At least six instances of belt shop operations have been found running in Guntur district alone. Officials are also facing a much bigger problem of arrack being brewed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/belt-shops-back-in-full-swing-in-ap/articleshow/75635450.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,000 migrants gather outside government office following rumour||AHMEDABAD: Flouting lockdown norms, nearly 2,000 migrant workers gathered at a government office in the Gota area here on Friday hoping they will somehow find a way to reach their native places, said police. The gathering, which started since the morning, was apparently triggered by a rumour about a bus reaching outside the government office to ferry migrants to railway station. On learning about the sudden rush of people at the deputy collector's office near Gota bridge, police officials immediately reached the spot and persuaded the migrants, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, to disperse. Migrants wanting to go their native places amid the lockdown are supposed to make an online application. They can also fill up the required form on paper and submit it at any designated office under a district collector. “The office of deputy collector also accepts such forms. Migrants who were given the permit were earlier asked to come here so that they can be ferried to a railway station in buses. Migrants having permits then board trains to reach their native places. This is how the system works,” said ACP, M A Patel. Since a bus carrying migrants had left from this office on Thursday, a rumour started doing the rounds that anyone wanting to go back to their native places should reach the spot, said Patel. “Thus, around 2,000 migrants flocked here since morning hoping to catch a bus till railway station and then a train till their native places. Before sending them back from the spot, policemen made them understand the entire process and even helped them in filling up forms,” Patel added. This was the latest in a series of incidents of lockdown violation in Gujarat by migrant workers desperate to leave for their native places during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2000-migrants-gather-outside-govt-office-following-rumour/articleshow/75636614.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nashik||51 more test Covid-19 +ve in district, total count hits 572||Nashik: The district recorded a big spike in Covid-19 cases with as many as 51 people tested positive for the infection. Of these, 18 were from the city, 28 from Malegaon and five from rural parts of the district. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 572 with 44 cases from Malegaon, 44 in the city, 61 from rural Nashik and 19 patients are from outside the district. NMC officials said 13 people were tested positive in the morning were all high-risk contacts of the earlier positive patients. Eight of them were from the existing containment zones in the city, while five tested positive from non-containment areas of the city. Currently, the NMC has sealed five containment areas in the city – Hirawadi in Panchavati, Shrikirshna Nagar, Jadhav Complex in Satpur, Patil Nagar and Hanuman Chowk in Cidco. The total number of containment zones in the city have reached 20. According to officials, a woman who had tested positive from Satpur area on Tuesday had travelled with seven others for a funeral at Chinchangaon near Malegaon on April 7 and returned Nashik on April 28. After she was tested positive, these seven were isolated and their swabs were sent for testing. The NMC received the reports of all seven today and they all have been tested positive. As many as 13 were tested positive in the city on Friday morning while five more were added to the list in the evening. Out of the 13, five were from Dhatrak Phata, Indira Nagar, Tarwala Nagar, Konark Nagar and another location that is yet to be confirmed. “We have also started tracing close contact with today’s all-new positive patients. We are also tracing out the travel history of these new five positive patients and they are in the process of sealing containment areas of these five patients” said NMC officials. The civic body is also planning to conduct a door-to-door survey in new containment zones to trace out high-risk contacts and suspects, said NMC officials. There were only 10 positive patients in the city by April 27, but the number of new positive cases increased to 44 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/51-more-test-covid-19-ve-in-district-total-count-hits-572/articleshow/75635442.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Rlys gives 4,800 meals aboard 4 Shramik trains||Nagpur: The Indian Railways, which is keeping shifting of migrants in Shramik Special trains a low-key affair, is also ensuring that none of the passengers go hungry. On Friday, four end-to-end trains passed through Nagpur division with each train carrying at least 1,200 migrants. IRCTC, the arm of Indian Railways, supplied 4,800 meal packets to these migrants. Three of the four trains that passed through Nagpur included Lingampalli near Hyderabad to Varanasi in UP, Ghatkesar in Telangana to Vidisha in MP, and Lingampalli to Gonda in UP. “While 3,600 meal packets were supplied at Nagpur station, another 1,200 were distributed at Ballarshah station. Both, Nagpur and Ballarshah have base kitchens which have been handed over to the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) as per policy decision,” officials said. In the meanwhile, the inflow of migrants from Andhra Pradesh to tribal districts of Gadchiroli and Chandrapur continued with 686 more migrants from Rayanapadu in Andhra Pradesh arriving at Nagbhid station on Friday morning by a special train. The South East Central Railway (SECR), Nagpur division, strictly adhered to social distancing and did thermal scanning of the passengers before allowing them to leave. Earlier on May 6, train from Rayanapadu carried 1,004 labourers to Wadsa. These labourers were from Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Gondia and other small towns. The Nagpur division of Central Railway has also clarified that it did not refund Rs12.28 lakh as reported by TOI in a news report on May 7, when two trains left for Barauni and Muzaffarpur on May 6 from Wardha and Nagpur, respectively. “The fare is paid by the district administration after which tickets are issued,” said railway officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-gives-4800-meals-aboard-4-shramik-trains/articleshow/75636621.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Eight held for hunting nilgai in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: Eight persons from Bhumaswada village in Chhota Udepur district were arrested on Friday for poaching a nilgai on April 21. The kingpin father-son duo was already nabbed on May 6. Forest officials said that the identity of the six men arrested on Friday was revealed by Ishwar Rathwa and his father Kamsing Rathwa in their statements. “Our different teams were searching for these eight persons and based on information they were nabbed,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. Pandya said that the eight persons helped Ishwar and his father in killing the animal. “These eight persons carried bow and arrows, sticks and other weapons to chase the nilgai. They wanted the animal to reach a designated spot where they can gherao them and the two kingpins could shoot it,” Pandya added. The nilgai had suffered two bullet injuries. The bullets were removed during treatment at Chhota Udepur and Pavi Jetpur, but it died after a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-held-for-hunting-nilgai-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/75634380.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune Cantt under strict lockdown this weekend||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has announced a two-day complete lockdown of the entire cantonment area, starting Saturday. Only pharmacies and petrol pumps will be allowed to remain open during this period. The move comes as cases of Covid-19 have surged considerably over the last few days in parts of the cantonment. “The two-day lockdown will be observed on May 9 and 10. I agree that there will be some difficulties for residents, but this is necessary to stop the spread of the coronavirus,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI. He added that while district authorities have already issued lockdown orders in containment zones, the two-day lockdown is to make people aware of the gravity of the situation. Kumar also added that a particular point of concern are areas adjacent to Bhavani Peth such as New Modikhana and Bhimpura, where families live in congested spaces. “The virus spread in those areas because they are right next to Bhavani Peth. In ten days, the number of cases in the cantonment area has surged to 58. People in these areas live in tight spaces, with large families living in a single room. In the New Modikhana area, we found a number of Covid-19 cases and it turned out that they used the same toilet. Despite the situation here, people continue to move about so the local elected members requested this step,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-cantt-under-strict-lockdown-this-weekend/articleshow/75637309.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
May 9, 2020||Business||Cognizant will cut costs, focus on hiring freshers||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Cognizant Technology Solutions’ revenue in the quarter ended March rose by 3.5% in constant currency, better than TCS and Wipro, but lower than HCL and Infosys. Revenue stood at $4.2 billion, including a $23 million headwind from their decision to exit content related services. Net income was $367 million, 17% down from $441 million in the year-ago quarter. Digital revenue as a percentage of total revenue was about 41% and grew by 19% year-over-year The company indicated that it expects the upcoming quarter to be sluggish because of the impact of Covid-19. It said there will also be an impact of $50 million to $70 million on account of the Maze ransomware attack last month. It expects the operating margin to fall below 16-17% in 2020. CTS plans to deal with the increased uncertainty by, among other things, cutting costs. It will “significantly decrease ... costs including corporate overhead, travel, marketing, relocations, and non-commercial lateral hires.” CEO Brian Humphries, however, noted several positives for the company. He said the company has low exposure to sectors that have been hit the most by the pandemic – travel & hospitality, retail, auto, energy, and media & entertainment. On the contrary, it has a big exposure to healthcare and lifesciences, which are already spending more on IT and technology. “We had the best quarter in healthcare in a year, with booking growing more than 100% year-on-year. We are doing a lot of work with pharma clients around the world, helping them come up with vaccines and accelerate solutions to Covid-19,” he said. First quarter total contracts awarded, he said, grew over 30% year-over-year – the company’s best quarterly performance since 2017. Humphries also said he expects the US to recover faster than other markets, and the company’s high exposure to that market – much higher than for most peers – would stand it in good stead. The company said it would continue to invest in enhancing its digital skills. It also said: “We will continue to build out our commercial team and correct the employee pyramid by onboarding approximately 20,000 entry-level hires.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-will-cut-costs-focus-on-hiring-freshers/articleshow/75635473.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||MIT student sets Guinness record with smallest working drill||Manipal: A first-year aeronautical engineering student of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT, Manipal) has entered the ‘Guinness Book of World Records’ for making the smallest working drill. Kiran Ravindra Patil’s unique drill measures 6.1mm (0.24in) tall, 6.7mm (0.27in) long and 4.6mm (0.18in) wide, and is equipped with 0.5mm drill bit. A 3V battery drives the tiny drill, which can pierce through soft objects like foam and balsa wood. Drills are one of the most commonly required tools in carpentry, metal industry, construction and household needs. Patil said when he was designing a motor for the aircraft and during a summer break, he hit upon the idea of making the smallest drill machine. “Being an engineering student, I know the importance of the tool which can be used extensively. It took me about four months to finish the final design and the prototype. This can be used in the medical field as well,” he said, adding: “Creating such small equipment fascinates me and I’m sure such tiny things make big impact in future’’. MIT director D Srikanth Rao said that their student has done them proud with a remarkable achievement. According to Satish Shenoy, head of department, aeronautical and automobile engineering, Kiran is also actively involved in developing miniaturised drones. He has won accolades in the development of drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mit-student-sets-guinness-record-with-smallest-working-drill/articleshow/75632562.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Five fresh nCoV cases in Karmika Nagar||Vijayawada: With five new Covid-19 cases, Karmika Nagar continues to be the hotspot in Vijayawada city. Since it being declared as a containment zone, there have been 51 cases in Karmika Nagar, forcing the district administration to completely shut down the area. City police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said Karmika Nagar continues to be a cause for concern as positive cases are increasing. The city police have set up additional barricades in the area to restrict the movement of people. Drone cameras are monitoring the area and the cops have issued warning that anyone coming out of their houses without valid reason and prior intimation to the authorities will be shifted to quarantine centres. Since Karmika Nagar is densely populated with very narrow roads in which even police vehicles cannot ply, a control room has been set up to monitor the area with drone cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-fresh-ncov-cases-in-karmika-nagar/articleshow/75635468.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Throat swabs of four who have died test positive in Malegaon||Nashik: The throat swab samples of four people, who died in the last two days in Malegaon, were among the 28 samples that tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. With this the total number of deaths reported in the textile town due to coronavirus has reached 18. Also, as many as 41 people have recovered from this disease.The swab samples of these 28 people were sent to laboratories in Nashik, Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. "Eight people have died in the past five days after being admitted to the Covid hospital in Malegaon. Their throat swab samples were sent for testing in different laboratories and four of them have tested positive for Covid-19," district collector Suraj Mandhare said.The district administration had already taken care of the disposal of the bodies suspecting them to be Covid-19 positive cases. The total number of positive patients in Malegaon of Friday reached to 448.A district administration official said, "Most of those who tested positive, including the dead, were from high risk categories. Today’s (Friday) tally of positive patients includes a police personnel, an 18-month-old girl and a person from Soygaon village.The district has reported a total fo 572 Covid-19 positive cases of which 19 have died and 46 have recovered so far. In Nashik city, there are 44 patients with one death and three recoveries.In Nashik rural areas, except Malegaon, there are 61 patients of which two have recovered. Yeola taluka is the worst-affected with 25 cases followed by Malegaon rural (11), Sinnar and Niphad (5 each).-Abhilash.Botekar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/throat-swabs-of-four-who-have-died-test-positive-in-malegaon/articleshow/75635469.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Central team in Kurnool to check measures||Tirupati: A public health team appointed by the Centre will inspect Covid-19 measures in Kurnool district for six days starting Saturday. Following the nationwide rise in number of cases, the Centre had announced the formation of public health teams to investigate 20 districts across 10 states with the highest incidence of coronavirus cases. These teams, comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS, JIPMER and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, among others, will carry out a detailed study on the disease outbreak in hotspots and submit their reports to the state health authorities with recommendations. In Andhra Pradesh—which has reported 1,887 cases so far—the team will visit Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts, which have registered the highest number of cases. Speaking to reporters in Kurnool, district collector G Veerapandian said a two-member committee comprising Dr Madhumitha, director at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health and Dr Sanjay Kumar, will reach Kurnool district on Saturday and begin their week-long comprehensive study of the Covid-19 situation in the district, steps taken by the district administration and suggest ways to strengthen ongoing measures to flatten the curve. With seven new cases reported on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district shot up to 547. Two more fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the number of Covid-19 deaths in the district to 14. In Anatapur distrcit, meanwhile, 16 Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, taking the overall tally to 99.  The collector, Chandrudu, directed district medical and health officer Anil Kumar to set up fever clinics at all containment clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/central-team-in-kurnool-to-check-measures/articleshow/75635490.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Poachers, dogs sighted during machan census in Tipeshwar||Nagpur: The Yavatmal Circle conservator of forest (CF), RK Wankhede, turned out to be a good samaritan when his alertness helped nab three poachers who had entered the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, 180km from here in Pandharkawda, during water hole estimation during Buddha Pournima on May 7. The official, who is known for his wildlife passion, was on a machan in Maregaon area when around 7am, he saw three poachers with two dogs, generally used to hunt herbivores, on a water hole. Wankhede, without making any noise, clicked pictures of the poachers from his cell phone camera and passed on the information to Pandharkawda territorial officials following which they started a search for the accused. Based on the information about poachers leaving towards Daryapur, Thanegaon, Pitapungri, Wadwat, and Khairi villages on the fringes of the park, Pandharkawda range forest officer (RFO) Vikram Khade and his team launched a hunt and caught three persons from Wadwat. The accused have been identified as Suresh Tekam, Potu Tekam and Dilip Tekam. The officials also seized weapons and wild animal body parts from the house of Suresh Tekam. The seizure included horns of chital, peacock feathers, knives, spear, and nets used to trap and kill animals. Sources said these poachers were regulars and must be entering the park frequently. These fringe villages are notorious and on several occasions poachers have laid wire snares in which tigers have also got entangled. One tigress even died last year due to snare injuries. Besides, in the past, there have been reports of illicit grazing and tree felling inside the 149sqkm sanctuary. “Tipeshwar is a tiger source and has at least 13 tigers. The free run for poachers in the sanctuary exposes lack of protection in the park,” said farm activist Kishor Tiwari. The accused were produced before Pandharkawda JMFC on Friday. The court denied bail to them. Two separate offences — one under Indian Forest Act (IFA) and another under Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972 — have been lodged against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poachers-dogs-sighted-during-machan-census-in-tipeshwar/articleshow/75636640.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi construction workers told to use Aarogya app||NEW DELHI: Amid the debate over privacy concerns, Delhi government has issued orders to make Aarogya Setu mobile application popular among factory and construction workers returning to work after six weeks of lockdown. The guidelines issued by various districts following Delhi government’s detailed order on relaxation in lockdown to revive economic activities have made it mandatory for industries and construction companies to ensure that the workers download the app on their phones as a preventive measure against the spread of Covid-19. Among other features, the application alerts the user if s/he comes in close contact with a person tested positive for Covid-19. The user, however, will have to keep the Bluetooth and Wi-Fi of his phone turned on all the time. Though the installation of the app has not been made mandatory for the entire population, the Centre has already made it a must for its employees returning to workplaces. The guidelines by the ministry of home affairs on the movement of migrants, tourists, pilgrims and students stuck in various states and going back through special trains and buses arranged by the governments also state that the people desirous of going back to their hometowns should also be “encouraged to use Aarogya Setu app through which their health status can be monitored and tracked”. In a separate order last week, the government had directed all district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to make every person living in the containment zone aware of the benefits of Aarogya Setu and encourage them to download and use the app. “All the industrial workers/employees have to download the Aarogya Setu app in their mobiles. The factory manager shall file details of the employees having mobile phones and the mobile app downloaded,” stated the guidelines issued by the district administrations to industries and construction firms. The government has made it clear that any violation of the directive will attract penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-workers-told-to-use-aarogya-app/articleshow/75637306.cms||Atul Mathur
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Students from DA-IICT get IIM-Ahmedabad call||AHMEDABAD: Two students from DA-IICT on Friday got the admission confirmation from IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A). The premier B-school issued the admission calls to the students on Friday as final list for the batch PGP 2020-22 would soon be announced. The officials said that they are very much on track for the academic year. For Nidhi Gupta, it was a dream come true. She had 99.7 percentile. “I was expecting the call as my interview and written exam went well. Before the interview, the essay I wrote was on PUBG,” she recalls. “I was battling with a personal loss right before the CAT exam and my score was in 94 percentiles. Thus, I was not very hopeful. But the confirmation has on Friday put me and my family on Cloud 9,” says Abhignya Chalamcharla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-from-da-iict-get-iim-a-call/articleshow/75636648.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Trichy||People flood CSD canteen as it reopens after 6 weeks||TRICHY: Social distancing went for a toss at the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) outlet on Royal Road which reopened on Friday after a gap of six weeks. Serving army men and retired defence personnel from across Trichy and neighbouring districts thronged the outlet for purchasing household provisions and alcohol. CSD canteens sell household provisions at concessional rates to serving and retired defence personnel or their kin on their behalf. The biggest rush was seen in front of the liquor sales counter. The beneficiaries were told that they can purchase only 50 percent of their monthly quota of liquor and that the previous month’s quota if not availed would not be carried forward to this month’s quota. A defence personnel who came all the way from Ordnance Factory Tiruchirapalli (OFT) said that he wanted to get this month’s liquor quota before stocks got over and that he had to forgo last month’s quota which he had not availed. S Sujatha, 40, came all the way from Perambalur district along with her son for purchasing grocery items and four bottles of liquor that is entitled to her husband in the armed forces. While her husband is posted on Covid-19 duty, she had come on his behalf. “At a time when the cost of essential groceries has shot up in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, I didn’t want to miss out on the grocery that we can avail at concessional rates here,” she said. A senior staff from URC (unit-run canteen) said that tokens had to be issued to regulate the entry of people so as to ensure social distancing. “A huge crowd had gathered by afternoon. As they had apprehensions on stock going dry, we issued tokens. A total 800 tokens were distributed on Friday and rest of them were asked to come on Saturday,” said the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-flood-csd-canteen-as-it-reopens-after-6-weeks/articleshow/75636633.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Jobless migrant workers set out on ‘timeless’ journey back home on foot||PUNE: Migrant worker Chandarani Medha (28) on Friday started walking back to her native village Dhamnod in Madhya Pradesh. With two babies, she set on the tryst with destiny — destination defined, limitless travel time. Medha’s family members had paid money to an agent, promising to register their names with police and confirm their train tickets. He turned out to be a bogus man. Unable to bear the ordeal at the temporary shelter in the city and joblessness, she is now determined to return to the village and take up farming to earn livelihood. “We neither have a proper shelter, nor a job. How will we survive? The cases are on the rise. Our children won’t be able to stay healthy in this condition. We don’t have any alternative but to return to our village and stay there till the situation improves in the city,” Medha told TOI, walking along the Pune-Bengaluru highway. She and her “team members” have studied the route. Their luggage comprises clothes, some dry ration and essential utensils. Their first target is to reach Nashik. “Our plan is to cook wherever we stop at night. We shall cook every morning so that the food lasts for the entire day,” said Akash Chouhan, who worked as a mechanic in the Kothrud depot area and now on way to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Gangaram Maravi worked as a construction worker on Sus Road. He is now keen to walk back to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh. Some co-walkers of Medha said they did not know how to apply for police pass and get the medical check-up done. “Nobody explained us the procedure,” said scrap worker Sarfaraj Chowdhari of Uttar Pradesh. Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde said they had told the in-charge(s) of the police stations to get the migrant workers registered. “We are aware that some desperate workers have started for their villages on foot. We have urged them to complete the mandatory process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jobless-migrant-workers-set-out-on-timeless-journey-back-home-on-foot/articleshow/75637320.cms||Mandar Deshpande
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Virus cases cross 6,000-mark in Tamil Nadu, 1,589 linked to Koyambedu||Chennai: The Covid-19 count in Chennai was one short of 400 on Friday as Tamil Nadu recorded 600 fresh cases. Of the total 6,009 cases recorded in the state as on Friday, 1,589 were linked to the Koyambedu cluster, authorities said. Tamil Nadu also recorded three deaths, pushing the toll to 40. A 78-year-old Tambaram man with comorbidities admitted to RGGGH since April 30 died on Thursday at 9pm. Two hours later, a 56-year-old man admitted on May 6 died. An 83-year old man with comorbidities died at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. At a review meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, state health officials have asked for a separate classification of deaths due to comorbidities in Covid-19 patients. “It is under review,” said a top official. Chennai, the worst hit city in TN, crossed the 3,000-mark with its highest single-day jump of 399 cases. The city now has 3,043 cases. Since its first case of March 7, Tamil Nadu took two months to cross 5,000 cases, but the high infection rate in Chennai may see the state breach the 10,000-mark sooner, according to epidemiologists. On Friday, Chennai’s neighbouring Tiruvallur recorded 75 cases, Kancheepuram 8 and Chengalpet 26. The swelling Koyambedu cluster left 34 people in Cuddalore and 25 people in Villupuram infected. Cases were reported from 13 other districts including low incidence Krishnagiri, which now has 10 cases, and Dharmapuri, four cases. Within Chennai city, cases increased in Pudur in Ashok Nagar, Vepery, Tiruvanmiyur and in several police quarters. The state health department reviewed its treatment protocols after the ICMR gave permission to government hospitals to start two clinical trials – using plasma therapy and broad spectrum antiviral Remdesivir. While Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Rajaji Government General Hospital in Madurai and Tirunelveli Medical College will soon start plasma therapy trials on critically-ill patients, Omandurar multispecialty hospital and RGGGH will start trials with Remdesivir, now being touted as the most probable drug of choice. As Chennai continues to account for half the state’s infections and active cases, the Greater Chennai Corporation is concentrating on infections within containment zones and among frontline workers such as policemen, firemen, doctor, nurses, health workers, sanitary and conservancy staff. “We have identified common causes for spread in different containment zones. While in some areas the public toilets were outside the containment zone, in some areas it was the public tap. In another area, we found that an ATM was still functioning inside the containment zone. A few people who went to the ATM were tested positive,” said GCC special nodal officer J Radhakrishanan. On Friday, officials in the corporation headquarters, brainstormed strategies including involvement of NGOs to bring in behavioural changes. “Some ideas seemed quirky but effective. One officer suggested that we should encourage people to use their umbrellas while going to the grocer. When they stand under an umbrella, they automatically follow social distancing,” he said. This practice was followed in Kerala. The state health minister C Vijayabaskar, meanwhile, reiterated the increase in numbers was because of aggressive testing, particularly among members of the Koyambedu cluster. The state tested 13,833 people on Friday. “We have tested more than two lakh people because we have the highest number of testing centres. People admitted to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infections, those reporting flu-like symptoms and home contacts of people who tested positive are all tested as per ICMR guidelines,” he said. The state is also encouraging people to opt for home quarantine, if they are below 60 years and without comorbidities. “This is done after a battery of tests including chest x-ray in hospitals,” he said. Those opting for home treatment will be given kits containing mask, hand sanitizer, soaps, zinc/vitamin tablets, nilavembu kudineer and kabasura kudineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virus-cases-cross-6000-mark-in-tn-1589-linked-to-koyambedu/articleshow/75636656.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Residents want 2 makeshift veggie markets shut||Nagpur: Residents of south and central Nagpur are demanding that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation shut temporary vegetable markets on Narendra Nagar ground and near Nikalas Mandir, respectively. Both the markets are situated near areas where Covid-19 cases have been detected. In a memorandum submitted to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, residents of Narendra Nagar and surrounding areas in south Nagpur said that a daily wholesale vegetable market is being held on Narendra Nagar ground, which is around 200 metres from Suyog Nagar Square near Parvati Nagar. Similar memorandum was submitted by residents of Itwari from central Nagpur demanding closure of the market near Nikalas Mandir. TOI has reported how social distancing norms are not being followed at these markets by vegetable growers and dealers. Many people could be seen without masks at these markets. “There is huge rush of buyers and sellers, including people from containment zones, at the Narendra Nagar ground market. Also, many from containment zone are working as domestic help at Narendra Nagar,” said resident and lawyer Avinash Kapgate. “The containment zone where a corona patient died recently is in close vicinity of Narendra Nagar ground, just 200m away. There is every possibility of coronavirus spreading through this market and people who work as domestic helps,” he said. It is necessary to prevent people from Rameshwari, Parvati Nagar and nearby areas from coming to Narendra Nagar, local residents said. Earlier, residents of Itwari, under the banner of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, demanded a complete lockdown of the market near Nikalas Mandir. “Itwari is very close to Satranjipura which has reported over 100 Covid-19 positive patients. Yet, the NMC allowed functioning of a vegetable and fruit market between Jain Hospital and Nikalas Mandir,” said MNS city president and resident of the locality Shashank Girde. He said that the market is always crowded and even hotels are being operated illegally in the name of selling dairy products. “Being a congested locality, residents are living in panic,” said Amit Agrawal, an Itwari resident. The residents claimed that the civic body and even city police are turning a blind eye to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/residents-want-2-makeshift-veggie-markets-shut/articleshow/75636653.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fewer shops open, association wants traders to wait till Covid curve flattens||PUNE: Fewer non-essential shops opened shutters on Friday than the day before with the traders’ association insisting on total resumption of business after the lockdown exit. Many shops dealing in gadgets, electronics, stationery items, garments and toys had reopened on Thursday after a gap of around 50 days. Several traders said they decided to keep the shutters down in response to an appeal of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune. “We cannot force any shop to shut. But the federation wants the shops to start operation once the Covid-19 curve in the city flattens a bit,” Federation of Trade Associations of Pune secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said. “We had a video conference with the municipal commissioner and our members on Friday noon. Over 1,000 traders attended the meeting through a cellphone application and a social media platform,” he said. “We shared our concerns with the commissioner. We will review the situation after May 17, when it will be clear if the lockdown is lifted or extended,” Pitaliya said. On Friday, areas such as Kothrud, Karve Road, Model Colony, Kalyaninagar and Baner were among the few where most non-essential stores opened. A Baner resident said, “Shops dealing in gadgets and electronics are allowed to remain open on Friday. But I did not see these shops open.” Kalyaninagar residents said several shops dealing in hardware and stationer items, toys and sweets functioned till 7pm. But areas such as FC Road, JM Road, Navi Peth, Tilak Road, Satara Road, NIBM Road and Salunke Vihar Road did not have a single non-essential store open. “I had gone to drop some medicines to my grandmother at her Satara Road house from Deccan.Barring a few wine shops, no other store selling non-essentials was open,” architect Gaurav Shah, said. NIBM Road residents said though a certain part of the area was a containment zone, stores selling essentials were forced to shut by noon. “Shops selling essential items on Salunke Vihar Road are open for two hours,” local resident Harsh Basur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-shops-open-association-wants-traders-to-wait-till-covid-curve-flattens/articleshow/75637328.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Dist civil surgeon served notice for delay in throat swab testing||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner has served notice to district civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale over the delay in testing of throat swabs of Covid-19 suspects in the city laboratory.The municipal commissioner has also issued instructions to the deputy director of health, Nashik, to speed up swab testing. On Friday, the NMC received swab reports of high risk patients it had sent on May 2.“The testing of swabs is getting delayed. I have also served notice to civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale in this connection, but there is still no improvement. Instructions have also been given to the deputy director of health, Nashik, to speed up the test of swabs,” said municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. Now, we are sending swabs of Covid-19 suspects to Pune-based laboratories for testing of swabs, said Game.NMC commissioner said that the Covid-19 positive cases from Nashik city have travel history to other affected cities including Malegaon. Now, the patients who are being tested positive are high-risk contacts of positive patients, said Game. “We are working towards curbing the outbreak of Covid-19 patients in the city as per the guidelines of the state and central governments,” added Game.“We are sealing the containment area in which the person tested positive for Covid-19. Moreover, we have also formed teams of health department of municipal corporation to conduct door-to-door survey in the areas to find out high-risk contacts and Covid-19 suspects,” he said. Mallikarjun Pattanshetty, deputy director of health services, Nashik, said that with the rising number of Covid-19 patients, the number of high-risk contacts of the concerned patients is also rising rapidly.“On the other hand, there is a certain capacity of the swab testing facility in Nashik. Taking this into account, we have given instructions to the concerned officials to send the swabs to the Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, and National Institute of Virology, Pune, to overcome the problem of increasing pendency of the throat swabs in Nashik,” said Pattanshetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-civil-surgeon-served-notice-for-delay-in-throat-swab-testing/articleshow/75635505.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 9, 2020||Delhi||100 rooms in Delhi's five-star hotels now hospitals||NEW DELHI: Two five-star hotels and a budget establishment in the city were made into an extension of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on Friday to facilitate the treatment of Covid-positive officials of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, corporations and local bodies and their family members. In all, 50 rooms each will be converted into treatment facilities at Leela Ambience near CBD Ground and Park Plaza in Shahdara. Besides, 70 rooms have been booked in Hotel Ginger in Vivek Vihar. More hotels could be converted into care centres in the future if the number of Covid-positive people continues to steadily rise. The government issued an order to Shahdara district magistrate to requisition the rooms and place them at the disposal of RGSSH immediately. RGSSH director has been directed to consider these hotel rooms as part of the hospital and provide healthcare facilities to Covid-positive officials. “Serious patients can be shifted to the main hospital,” the order added. RGSSH spokesperson Dr Chhavi Gupta said healthcare workers and government employees of all groups who test positive for novel coronavirus would be admitted into these hotels and provided medical treatment on a par with the hospital. “It will work as a morale booster for all healthcare workers and government employees who are working on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus,” she added. Currently, 118 patients are admitted at RGSSH, which has been designated a Covid facility by Delhi government. The hospital has the capacity to cater to 500 patients. Earlier, Delhi government had turned hotels and community halls into Covid care centres to accommodate the rising number of patients in the capital. With 338 new cases on Friday, the total number has risen to 6,318.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/100-rooms-in-5-star-hotels-now-hosps/articleshow/75635519.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Clash between Army jawans, villagers leave several hurt||Roorkee: Stone pelting between Army jawans and Toda Kalyanpur villagers left more than half-a-dozen people injured on Thursday. The hurt villagers also include women. The clash took place following a brawl between the two parties over the claim of a thoroughfare in the village. On getting information of the clash, city police reached the spot to take control of the situation. Four different cases were registered in the matter and around 200 unidentified persons, seven Army personnel, and four villagers were booked by the police on charges of rioting and other crimes. The thoroughfare at Toda Kalyanpur village near Roorkee has been in dispute for decades now. An Army gate has been erected across the disputed road and the movements of villagers is prevented in the area. At present, two units of the Army are housed inside the gate. However, the villagers claim that they had been using the road for generations. In the past too, Army jawans and villagers have come face-to-face due to the dispute. “We have started investigation in the matter. The arrests will be made on the basis of our investigation report,” SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/clash-between-army-jawans-villagers-leave-several-hurt/articleshow/75635498.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 9, 2020||Business||India tops Zoom downloads in April||BENGALURU: India was the biggest market for Zoom in terms of the number of mobile application downloads in April despite the security issues and government warnings. Zoom was the most downloaded non-game app worldwide for April 2020 with close to 131 million installs, a 60x growth from April 2019, according to Sensor Tower. The countries with most installs of the app during this period were India at 18%, followed by US at 14%. The development comes at a time when the home ministry’s cyber coordination centre on April 16 said, “Zoom is a not a safe platform”, advising government employees not to use it because of security concerns and privacy lapses. The US-based Zoom, which is also being used to conduct school classes besides corporate meetings, has also been tightening its encryption as it has come under fire globally for privacy issues. On Thursday it acquired end-to-end encryption startup Keybase to beef up its capabilities. Players like Facebook, which also owns WhatsApp, besides Google and Microsoft have also started pushing their video calling products and have increased the limit of the number of people on a call, which has been one of the major advantages for Zoom till now. “For India specifically, we don’t have a privacy law yet. If Zoom is being downloaded here and there are problems with the usage of the app (privacy implications), there is very little you can do right now, considering it’s a private platform and there is no law as such that regulates how data provided to this platform can be used,” said Smitha Krishna Prasad, director, Centre for Communication Governance at National Law University, Delhi. India’s coronavirus tracking application Aarogya Setu also made it to the global top 10 at 7, as the government said earlier this week that it has hit 90 million downloads. It beat Netflix besides video calling applications Google Meet and Microsoft Teams. Tiktok was also another application that kept people hooked to in the country. While globally it saw 107 million installs, a 2.5x increase from April 2019. About 22% of the installs came from India, its largest market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-tops-zoom-downloads-in-april/articleshow/75635531.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Three deaths in AP, 54 positive as cases rise in Visakhapatnam city||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh reported three deaths and 54 new Covid-19 cases on Friday as coronavirus made inroads into Visakhapatnam city. The state’s tally has increased to 1,887, and toll has gone up to 41. In a departure from the ongoing trend of red zone districts registering more cases, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam, which have so far reported fewer cases contributed to the state’s Covid-19 caseload on Friday. While Anantapur reported 16 cases, Visakhapatnam registered 11 cases. There has been a steady increase in the number of cases in the three north coastal Andhra districts, which earlier remained relatively coronavirus free. Visakhapatnam district for the first time witnessed 11 new cases in a single day. Covid-19 cases emerged from several new areas in Vizag city, including Pithapuram Colony, KRM Colony, Prahladapuram, Gajuwaka, Relli Veedhi, Vepagunta and Jalaripeta. With this, the pandemic has spread to almost every part of the city, which incidentally witnessed styrene leak tragedy on Thursday. Two ward secretariat employees and a few sanitary staff in Visakhapatnam tested positive to the disease. Covid19 cases in Vizianagaram district now increased to four after it reported its first case two days ago. Vizianagaram district officials identified nearly 165 primary and secondary contacts of the four Covid-19 patients and sent them for testing. The district officials appointed an incident commander for each Covid-19 patient to oversee containment measures and surveillance measures. Kurnool for the last two days reported only single-digit cases providing a major relief to district officials. There has been some downward trend in Guntur and Krishna districts also for the last few days. After a long gap, West Godavari contributed 9 cases to the state’s tally. In Vijayawada, two employees of the city municipal corporation became the latest victims of the pandemic. As many as 62 Covid-19 patients were sent home till Friday morning, taking the cumulative recoveries to 842. With this, the recovery rate of coronavirus positive cases has now improved to about 45 per cent. Kurnool district discharged the highest number of patients (191), followed by Guntur (164). The state has so far tested 1.56 lakh Covid-19 samples, including the 7,320 people screened for the pandemic between 9am on Thursday and 9am on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-deaths-in-ap-54-ve-as-cases-rise-in-vizag-city/articleshow/75636675.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Outrage on social media after slandering of Jamia scholar||LUCKNOW: Public outrage on social media against the slandering of a pregnant Jamia research scholar grew stronger on Friday with residents demanding FIR against the policeman who posted fake news with obscene remarks on her. The student is in jail for organizing protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Delhi. Many clicked photographs of themselves holding banners and placards with messages denouncing the slandering and posted them on social media to protest against the character assassination of the research scholar by a few politicians and a section of people. The constable was sent to lines following similar protest on Thursday. Police had then said that probe was underway because he had claimed that his account was hacked. However, protesters said the cop had been given a long rope. “The duty of a policeman is to protect women. By lodging an FIR against him, police should set an example,” said Shambhavi Pathak, who lodged a protest along with her friends.. State president of All India Democratic Women's Association Madhu Garg said the demand of FIR was in accordance with the government’s announcement of strict action against fake news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/outrage-on-social-media-after-slandering-of-jamia-scholar/articleshow/75637332.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Erode||Two drunk people drown in Erode while bathing||Erode: Two people have drowned in as many incidents near Kodumudi in the district while they were bathing in a well and canal, respectively, in an inebriated state. In one of the incidents, a 50-year-old man was found dead in a well in Velappampalayam village near Kodumudi on Thursday evening. According to the Kodumudi police, B Sakthivel’s wife Srija had approached them saying her husband, who went out to buy liquor in the morning, hadn’t returned home. During inquiry, police came to know Sakthivel had gone to Bhagavathi Amman temple garden to consume liquor. “We searched the area and found his cloths near the well, in which his body was floating,” a police officer said. The body was retrieved with the help of fire and rescue services personnel and sent to the government hospital in Kodumudi for postmortem. “We suspect Sakthivel may have entered the well in an inebriated state to bathe and drowned,” the officer said. Police have registered a case and further inquiry is on. In another incident, 22-year-old K Parthiban, of SNB Nagar in Kodumudi town, drowned while bathing in Pugaluran canal in an inebriated state with his friends on Thursday evening. P Murugan, inspector, Kodumudi police station, said, “They consumed liquor and entered the canal. Parthiban was caught in the strong water current and drowned.” His friends alerted police, who along with fire and rescue services personnel, retrieved the body. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/two-drunk-people-drown-in-erode-while-bathing/articleshow/75636666.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: We were even ready to face coronavirus to make a living, says dhobiwalas||TRICHY: As many as 5,000 people involved in washing clothes in the district were left with no income for the last 45 days as the curfew crippled their operation apart from people preferring to do their laundry themselves. “As many people refused to give us clothes, we were even ready to face coronavirus for our income,” said K Murugesan, district president of Tamil Nadu Vannar Peravai. The washing ghat across Kollidam river near No 1 Toll gate had only a few women from Azhagiripuram near Thiruvanakovil in Trichy washing few clothes on Friday. All the major washing centres in Vannarapettai and Ariyamangalam in the city have witnessed minimum activity since March this year. “Not only the washing centres. but also out livelihood have become dry as no one is coming forward to wash their clothes with us. As our business fades away, our people are staring at financial crisis,” said a woman Karpagam from Azhagiripuram. Azhagiripuram consists 200 families relying on the profession for their livelihood for many years. Laundry shops in every locality would be their business providers. The clothes given by the people in the laundry shops will be sent to the washermen in the city. “We hardly get Rs 5 per cloth. If you deduct the expenses on washing powder and other chemicals, we earn Re1 per cloth. One person can wash 100 clothes each day,” said M Bhuvaneswari, adding that one person gets a maximum of four days of work in a week. Eswari, who was in tears, showed her palms affected by skin disease which was due to prolonged use of chemicals to wash clothes. Everyone has this condition. “As the lone woman with the responsibility to raise my daughter, I have been struggling to make ends meet. The lockdown fuelled our problems further. As our customers want their clothes to be bright, we use these chemicals ending up with skin diseases,” said Eswari. Unable to run the show without income, several of them have been at the mercy of money lenders who charge Rs100 as interest per week for Rs1,000. Adding insult to the injury, the reopening of Tasmac run wine shops near Azhagiripuram also shattered their peace as their husbands again took to drinking after 40 days. Same is the case at Vannarapettai behind Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital. As many as 50 families were involved in the profession. The closure of the corporation run washing centre due to lockdown also put their livelihoods at stake. As the government relaxed restrictions, the washermen have started getting orders in small numbers from people they know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/we-were-even-ready-to-face-coronavirus-to-make-a-living-dhobiwalas/articleshow/75636662.cms||Gokul Rajendran
May 9, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body may seek SRPF help to man sealed zones||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation is likely to seek help from the State Reserve Police Force to intensify the monitoring at the containment zones following the recent spurt in coronavirus infection cases in the city. The Pune municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad, said, “We shall review the situation and decide whether to seek help of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) or not. The civic administration has planned to provide essentials like groceries and medicines to the residents in the containment zones.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday decided to intensify the monitoring at the containment zones to ensure that residents did not flout the norms or brought down barricades installed to demarcate these pockets. At present, there are 69 containment pockets in the PMC limits. “Regulating the crowd in these areas is a major task. It is taking a toll on police personnel. So, the civic administration is contemplating to take help of the SRPF,” said a senior official of the PMC. The civic officials claimed that many people in the containment zones were flouting the social distancing norms, causing problems in controlling the spread of the virus in these areas. The possibility of an outbreak in other parts of the city cannot be ruled out if the residents of these places disobey the norms. The PMC was planning to strengthen the barricades in these areas so that movement of the residents in these pockets could be restricted, said a source. The PMC had marked containment zones in some parts of the city in April first week to control the spread of coronavirus. The first containment zones were demarcated in Peth areas from Maharshinagar to RTO and some parts of Kondhwa on April 6. The second batch of containment areas was declared on April 13, when Shivajinagar, some parts of Ahmednagar Road, Satara Road, Parvati and remaining parts of Peth areas and Kondhwa were made a part of the containment zones. The entire Pune city was declared as a containment zone on April 20 after 13 out of 15 ward offices showed an increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. On Sunday, the civic administration reduced the area of the containment zones to 10sqkm from 81sqkm. Mostly the core city areas and densely populated pockets are now in the containment zones, constituting nearly 3% area of the city. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) added Tamhane Vasti to the list of containment zones late on Friday night. Now, there are 28 containment pockets in the PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-may-seek-srpf-help-to-man-sealed-zones/articleshow/75637331.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Law univ students of other states in a fix over order to vacate hostel||TRICHY: About 25 students staying in the residential campus of Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU) have been asked to vacate at the earliest by the university administration . Most of the students, who have been at the hostel ever since the lockdown began, are from other states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Odisha and few North East states. Some of them do not wish to travel as they don’t want to contract coronavirus and have called up Covid-19 helpline to seek aid in this situation. Officials from Trichy district administration have confirmed that they received a complaint from TNNLU students and they are looking into the matter. According to students, K R Leela, registrar, TNNLU, on Thursday, asked the ones from Tamil Nadu to vacate the hostel within two days and asked others to register online on the government portal for permission to travel inter-state. “The guidelines for inter-state travel mentions that the onus is purely on us if anything happens while travelling. But we don’t want to take the risk and neither do our parents, who have been asking us to stay in the university hostel as it is located on the outskirts of Trichy with no Covid-19 hotspots nearby,” said a student on request of anonymity. “When Ministry of human resource development (HRD) has instructed institutions to not force students to vacate hostels against their wish, it is unfortunate that a reputed university like TNNLU is doing so,” said another student. “While there are no orders from the government to ask students to vacate institution hostels, we need to see if the institution has logistic issues so that it can be sorted out,” said an official. When TOI contacted TNNLU registrar, K R Leela, asking for the reason to force students to vacate, she refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/law-univ-students-of-other-states-in-a-fix-over-order-to-vacate-hostel/articleshow/75636668.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Derogatory term published in Class IX Gujarati textbook||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Board of School Textbooks (GSBST) recently learned that the Gujarati language textbook published for Class IX contained a derogatory word for persons from scheduled castes. A Supreme Court directive from 2017 had held that the word concerned has now come to be abusive and offensive. The Centre had in 2018 asked all ministries, departments and state governments to avoid using this word when referring to persons from scheduled caste communities. The term, meaning children of god, was first used by Mahatma Gandhi in reference to Dalits in the early thirties. GSBST officials have replaced the word online with ‘scheduled caste’ and ordered that the necessary changes be made in print, said a source in the government. The Chapter 20 titled ‘Samaj Samarpit Shresthi’ (roughly meaning ‘wealth dedicated to society’) portrays the life of industrialist and philanthropist Nanjibhai Kalidas Mehta, who was born in the small village of Gohana, about 40km from Porbandar in 1887. The chapter describes the journey and struggles of Mehta who went to Uganda at the tender age of 13. His rags-to-riches story speaks about how he helped in the economic development of a country that was torn by hunger, poverty and illness. His business empire spread across various sectors including cotton, rubber and sugarcane. In 1924 he set up the Lugazi Sugar Factory. Mehta greatly admired Mahatma Gandhi and as tribute built Kirti Mandir at Porbandar, the birthplace of Gandhi. To honour the 79 years Gandhi lived, Mehta build a 79-foot-long statue there. In a paragraph on page 130, which speaks about how Mehta favoured gender neutrality and was against distinguishing people on the basis of caste. It says Mehta established Arya Kanya Gurukul, a resident school for girls, at Porbandar in 1936. The contentious word comes in the next line, which says that Mehta took brave step of laying the foundation stone for the school at the hands of girl from a scheduled caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/derogatory-term-published-in-class-ix-gujarati-textbook/articleshow/75636658.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP names 4 candidates; Khadse, Pankaja sidelined||Aurangabad: BJP on Friday released a list of four party candidates for the May 21 election to state legislative council with heavyweights such as Pankaja Munde and Eknath Khadse finding no place despite touted as strong contenders. Ajit Gopchhade from Nanded, who heads the BJP’s doctors’ cell, and Pravin Datake, former mayor of Nagpur, received a party ticket surprising many as the two leaders were not considered to be in the running. BJP has also given a ticket to Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil and Gopichand Padalkar, who joined the saffron party ditching NCP and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), respectively, ahead of last year’s state assembly elections. Senior BJP leaders such as Vinod Tawde and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, as well as Harshvardhan Patil, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly election on BJP ticket after leaving Congress, have been also left out by BJP. Pankaja, the party’s OBC face from Marathwda, lost the assembly election from Parli seat to her estranged nephew and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, and her name had been making rounds for the MLC polls ever since. Former MP Ranjitsinh Mohite-Patil, son of veteran NCP leader and former deputy CM Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil, had joined BJP ahead of the 2019 assembly polls, and played crucial role in the party’s success in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in western Maharashtra. He has now been rewarded with an MLC poll ticket. Among the other candidates nominated by BJP, Padalkar, a leader of the Dhangar community, was a member of Rashtriya Samaj Paksh initially, before jumping to VBA and returning to BJP again. A senior BJP functionary said party leaders who were given a chance during assembly election were not considered for the MLC polls by the top brass. “Khadse’s daughter was given a ticket during the assembly election but she lost. His daughter-in-law is already serving as an MP. So there is nothing much to read in his omission from the list of candidates for MLC poll,” he said. Tawde and Bawankule, both cabinet ministers in previous BJP-led government in Maharashtra, were not considered for assembly polls or the legislative council poll either. Without commenting directly on the matter, a BJP functionary said other leaders with potential, who had not yet had a chance to work at the state-level, have been given tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-names-4-candidates-khadse-pankaja-sidelined/articleshow/75635543.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Two more Covid-19 cases found in Uttarakhand, six recover||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported two new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday taking the total number of of coronavirus patients in the state to 63. According to the health department, the first case was reported from Udham Singh Nagar and the other from Iqbalpur in Roorkee. Harish Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh, informed that the 31-year-old patient from Roorkee was suffering from a severe stomach ailment and before being admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh, the patient had been to Max Hospital in Rampur’s Chungi area and to Vinay Vishal Hospital. His checkup was done at one hospital and ultrasound at the other private facility. “He came to AIIMS Rishikesh on Thursday (May 7) as he was suffering from pancreatic and stomach ailment. We conducted his Covid-19 test and his samples tested positive today (May 8). The patient claims that he didn’t travel anywhere outside Roorkee between April 25 and May 5 and just visited the two hospitals on May 6,” said Thapliyal, while adding that primary contacts of the patient are being traced so that they can be tested for the virus. As for another positive case from Udham Singh Nagar, district’s Chief Medical Officer Dr Shailja Bhatt told TOI that the patient was working in a hotel in Delhi and he had come back to his native village in Kashipur town on May 6. The man’s screening was done and his samples were collected after he reached his village. “Three people had come to Kashipur with this patient. Fortunately, they all tested negative. We are transferring the patient to Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani,” she added. Meanwhile, six Covid-19 positive patients recovered fully on May 8. With this, the total number of active cases has dipped to 17 in the Himalayan state. Among the six cases who recovered on Friday, five patients were discharged from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital and the other was AIIMS Rishikesh staff nurse. As around 70% patients have recovered from the disease, the number of containment zone have been reduced to five in Dehradun, and one each in Nainital, Haridwar, and Udham Singh Nagar districts, as per the bulletin issued by health department. The state, till May 8, conducted 9,116 Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-covid-19-cases-found-in-ukhand-six-recover/articleshow/75635562.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Doubling rate of Covid-19 cases improves to 96 days in U’khand: Govt||Dehradun: The current rate for Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand has improved to 96 days while the recovery rate of positive patients has reached 74%, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said on Friday while addressing mediapersons. He added that the “doubling rate is constantly improving.” Singh claimed that “the efforts made by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus in Uttarakhand are showing positive results.” He added that as of Saturday, the state government has managed to bring back 18,156 Uttarakhand residents stranded in other states due to lockdown, and the government is working on bringing back around 8,700 more people of Uttarakhand back rom Gurgaon. Speaking about the loss of jobs of migrant labourers, Singh said, “On the lines of Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme, the state government has approved Chief Minister Employment Generation Programme.” Meanwhile, representatives of Uttarakhand Hotel Association met CM Trivendra Rawat at his residence on Friday and urged him to intervene to help those working in the hospitality sector. They said that because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, those associated with the hotel and restaurtant business were facing a lot of diffculties in paying salaries and bearing overhead costs. They added that the present season was usually the begi nning of peak time for the hospitality sector but hoteliers were instead grappling with huge losses. A communique from the CM’s office said that CM Rawat assured the hoteliers’ delegation that the government was mindful of their problems and steps are being taken to resume economic activities in green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-improves-to-96-days-in-ukhand-govt/articleshow/75635553.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Viral video lands 3 in jail for poaching||Pudukottai: The forest department in Pudukottai arrested three people for poaching two monitor lizards for its meat on Thursday. The incident would have gone unnoticed had the video of the incident not gone viral on social media. The arrested were identified as Prabu, 23, Ramesh 28, and Suri, 22, from Kathanviduthi village near Karambakudi. Monitor lizards are found in abundance in Pudukottai as it is a dry region and are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A video in which the three are holding two monitor lizards went viral on social media a few days back. “The trio cooked its meat and ate it last week near their village. Besides, they also shared a video on social media while holding the monitor lizard as a display of valour,” said Pudukottai district forest officer M Anand Kumar. “Several people had posted comments on the video while appreciating their act. As the video went viral, we came to know about their act. We traced their locations based on the contact number they were using,” he said. The trio were booked booked under section 9 (prohibition of hunting wildlife) under the Act. They were arrested on Thursday evening and have been lodged in Pudukottai prison for 15 days. “While there are a lot of myths surrounding monitor lizards, its meat is considered rich in protein content,” said forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/viral-video-lands-3-in-jail-for-poaching/articleshow/75636673.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Salem||Family of cop who died in accident to get Rs 50L||Krishnagiri: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to the family of a head constable who was killed in a road accident on Friday while on duty. Head constable Settu of Kaveripattinam, who was attached with the traffic wing in Hosur town, was on duty at Jujuwadi checkpost near Hosur on Chennai-Bengaluru national highway on Thursday. Around 3 am, a container truck heading towards Ahmedabad from Chennai rammed a barricade on the road after being hit by another truck from behind. Head constable Settu, who was sitting next to the road, got hit by the barricade and the truck and succumbed to injuries on the spot. Hudco police had registered a case and initiated inquiry. The chief minister has assured a government job for one family member of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/family-of-cop-who-died-in-accident-to-get-rs-50l/articleshow/75636676.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand: Rain, hailstorm in offing from May 10||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre, on Friday, issued a yellow warning for likely hailstorm and lightning at isolated places in the hills of Uttarakhand from May 10 onwards. Meanwhile, the plains and foothills are likely to witness rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm and gusty winds with a speed of around 30-40 kilometre per hour. Such weather conditions are expected to prevail over Uttarakhand between May 10 and 12. As a result, the mercury, which is hovering around normal level, is likely to drop further in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-rain-hailstorm-in-offing-from-may-10/articleshow/75635544.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||BJP has no tradition to demand cabinet berths: Prahlad Patel||BHOPAL: BJP leader and Union minister Prahlad Patel on Friday said that there is no tradition of demanding a ministerial berth in BJP. Patel was replying to a statement by MP cabinet minister Govind Singh Rajput, who had demanded that Jyotiraditya Scindia be appointed Union minister. “Govind Singh has sought appointment of Scindia in the central ministry, and his demand will surely reach the party high command, but there is no tradition of demanding a ministerial berth in BJP,” Patel told reporters on Thursday. Rajput, a close confidante of Scindia, is among the 22 who broke away from Congress in March, toppling the Kamal Nath government. He has been made food and civil supplies minster in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. On May 6, Rajput had met state BJP chief V D Sharma, and demanded Scindia’s inclusion in the Union cabinet. “There was a general discussion, but we all want that Scindia ji should become Union minister. The central leadership will decide the matter and we are sure to win all 24 seats in the forthcoming bypolls,” Rajput had said. Sharma has denied reports that cabinet expansion is being discussed at a string of recent meetings. Party leaders and ministers can visit the head office any time to discuss problems, development and issues of public welfare, he explained. Sources, however, said that Sharma recently held a series of meetings with ministers, MLAs, state office-bearers and RSS top cadres to discuss the party's plan to induct new names in the cabinet. The party is yet to reach a consensus on the names from Scindia’s team and senior BJP MLAs. It’s believed that 23 new ministers -- including eight from Scindia team – will be included in the next expansion of the Shivraj cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-has-no-tradition-to-demand-cabinet-berths-prahlad-patel/articleshow/75636689.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Coimbatore||In Nilgiris, norms relaxed in four containment zones||UDHAGAMANDALAM: People in the four containment zones in the Nilgiris heaved a sigh of relief as restrictions were lifted and they were allowed to come out on Friday, when the areas completed 28 days of Covid-19 control measures. Collector J Innocent Divya said people in the containment zones in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri could resume normal operations as the containment period was over. The areas were sealed after nine Covid-19 positive cases were reported from there. The patients have been recovered and discharged from hospital two weeks ago. “However, the new three containment zones in Nanjanadu panchayat in Ooty taluk and Selas in Coonoor taluk are being monitored. People have to maintain physical distancing, wear face masks and maintain personal hygiene strictly,” she said. The collector also requested people not to stigmatize Covid-19 patients. There are only four active novel coronavirus cases in the district, which has seen a total of 13 cases so far. The four cases - all truck drivers returned from Koyambedu market in Chennai - are undergoing treatment at ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Another 17 people, who have returned from other districts and states, are kept under observation at the isolation ward of the Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital. Dr S Palanisamy, joint director of health, said, “Their test results are pending. Most of them are truck drivers who have been to Koyambedu and other districts and states. Guidelines for clinical symptomology are changing every day, as most of the positive cases are asymptomatic. X-rays are taken for the people under observation.” He said the drivers entering the district are being screened at Burliar check post. “Suspected cases are brought to Coonoor government hospital and kept under observation. Throat swabs and blood samples are collected from them for Covid-19 test.” While 1,534 people have been tested for the novel coronavirus in the Nilgiris, the results of 148 are yet to come. “We are waiting results of around 148 people, including the 17 who are under observation at Coonoor government hospital,” said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health. About 1,190 people, who entered the district with e-pass, are in home quarantine for 14 days. They are being monitored by emergency operative control centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-nilgiris-norms-relaxed-in-four-containment-zones/articleshow/75636686.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Two held for avenging death of friend with murder||Mysuru: In a murder committed for revenge, friends of Sathish, who was stabbed to death on Monday, have allegedly murdered a brother of an accused in his murder, by stabbing the victim and smashing his head with a boulder, late on Thursday night. Irfan and Mahendra, who confessed to having murdered Abhishek, voluntarily informed the police about the crime, and surrendered . They also took the police to the scene of the crime, near St Anthony’s Church in Gayathripuram II Stage, under the Nazarbad police station limits. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda confirmed that it’s a revenge murder. Mysuru has witnessed two murders in three days, and the second one was a murder committed to take revenge. Sathish from Kyathamaranahalli was allegedly murdered by two brothers, Kiran and Madhu, late on Monday night, in Udayagiri police station limits. The duo were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. Three days later, Irfan and Mahendra, friends of Sathish, summoned Kiran and Madhu’s brother Abhishek from T Narasipura, and allegedly stabbed him to death after which they smashed his head with a boulder,” the DCP said. Abhishek was summoned under the pretext of discussing an issue related to the incident. Abhishek arrived in Mysuru and was then taken to a secluded place, where he was murdered at about 8 pm on Thursday, said the police. Chain snatchers arrested Mysuru city police have arrested two chain snatchers after giving them brief chase in west Mysuru on Thursday. After two cases of chain snatching were reported in Vijayanagar police limits, police had intensified their vigil, and were conducting checks. When two youths tried to flee on seeing the police, a police team gave chase and caught them, said Prakash Gowda. They duo had snatched gold chains from women near Hinkal Road Junction on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-held-for-avenging-death-of-friend-with-murder/articleshow/75632145.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard that had attacked three, caged in Anand village||VADODARA/ ANAND: A leopard was caged in Kathana village of Borsad taluka of Anand district on Friday. Residents of Kathana village had complained of sighting a leopard in the area for the past one month. On Friday, there were also reports of leopard attacking three villagers in the vicinity after which a team from forest department along with members of Nature Help Foundation, a Vallabh Vidyanagar-based NGO had reached the village. Scores of villagers had gathered to get a glimpse of the leopard while the rescue operation was still on. “The rescue operation had started at around 1 pm and it was only at around 6.15 pm that the leopard was caged,” said Dr Divyesh Kelawala, a veterinarian working with the Anand Agricultural University and a volunteer with the NGO. The leopard is a five to six year old adult male, he said, adding that the area from where it was caged is its regular travelling route. The forest department which has caged the leopard will release it in its natural habitat. The leopard was taken to the forest department’s nursery at Posindra by Friday evening. “The village from where it was rescued is located near the ravines of Mahi river. There has been leopard movement in this belt starting from Vasad to Valvod to other nearby villages,” he said. The villagers had complained that the leopard had attacked a woman, a man and while a child had received some bruises on his back. “The man has got injuries on his mouth due to the bite and has got some stitches. The other two have received normal injuries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-that-had-attacked-three-caged-in-anand-village/articleshow/75634405.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Doctors know best where patient can be treated: Game||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Friday said that he is not in a position to comment on the request of a senior doctor from the civil hospital, who wants to be home isolated after being tested positive for Covid-19.Game said they are yet to get clear guidelines from the state government if asymptomatic Covid-19 patients should be allowed for home isolation. “The doctors treating him know best if he should be treated in the hospital or sent home for home isolation as they have the expertise in the issue,” said Game. Deputy director of health services Mallikarjun Pattanshetty said that he has himself spoken to the concerned doctor and asked him to stay at the Nashik civil hospital, where he would be provided with all the facilities. On Thursday, the doctor’s son who is stuck in the US made a very emotional appeal in a letter on social media tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, health minister Rajesh Tope, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, CP Vishwas Nangare Patil and others to allow him to be isolated at home. The doctor’s son said that he was deeply hurt after the residents of their building, where his parents reside, did not allow him to isolate himself at their residence. He further added that his father’s condition would deteriorate if he doesn’t get immunity-boosting services like warm water, proper food, etc which is lacking at the hospital. The doctor, who is also a senior ENT specialist at the Nashik civil hospital, has been among the medical officers at the helm of affairs to manage treatment for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doctors-know-best-where-patient-can-be-treated-game/articleshow/75635578.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru teachers allege school asked many senior staffers to quit||BENGALURU: A prestigious city school has allegedly asked many of its senior faculty members and non-teaching staff to resign. Teachers alleged the management of Baldwin Boys’ High School, Hosur Road, has asked staff with 10-25 years of experience to quit. “We were asked to come to the school during the past one week individually and tender our resignation. We were told there’s excess staff and they are trying to reduce the number,” claimed a teacher. “Some of us have been teaching here for 20 years or so. All this while we were never considered excess staff. They want to sack experienced teachers so that they can save on higher salaries and appoint freshers instead. We have moulded several batches of students and they are all flourishing around the globe. What’s the dignity we have? Where’s the justice,” asked a teacher. They also alleged they haven’t been paid April salary. Rev Sebastian Ravi Kumar, manager of Baldwin Boys’ High School said: “People on probationary period and poor track record have the option to leave. We are not forcing anyone to leave, it’s up to them. Aren’t all sectors doing it? We are not taking any new recruits. We can’t afford to hire any new teachers now.” While the teachers alleged 30 staff members have been asked to leave Baldwin Group of Schools, Sebastian refused to comment. “I do not know the number as it’s optional. Only the HR would know.” The teachers said they are mulling approaching the labour commissioner. “I am surprised that a school has resorted to cutting down teaching staff in these times. With classes going online, work and need for teachers are more. If a teacher has worked for several years in a school, giving their blood, sweat and tears, removing him or her is demotivating for the entire teaching community,” said Maya Menon, founder director, Teacher Foundation. Labour minister Shivaram Hebbar had announced on Thursday that the department would issue notices to employers who have not paid salary or paid reduced wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-teachers-allege-school-asked-many-senior-staffers-to-quit/articleshow/75635171.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||AP bids adieu to canine hero who helped crack murders||Andhra Pradesh police on Friday bid farewell to their tracker dog Raja at Machilipatnam. Raja, who died of a cardiac arrest following a brief illness, had served the department for six years. Police officers, in masks, performed the last rites with the band followed by a final salute. Top officials took part in the event held at Krishna district headquarters in Masula. “After doing excellent service for six years, Raja died of ill-health. He played a crucial role in detecting several important cases,” said Krishna distric SP, M Ravindra Babu. Raja had passed out from Moinabad Intelligence Security Wing Dog Training Academy with flying colours in 2014. “During the training period, Raja won a silver for exhibiting excellent skills...In 2016, after a refresher course, he stood first and won prizes in several categories,” police officials said. Raja’s detections skills helped police solve several murders. In 2015, he helped track the killers in Koduru. “Within half an hour of the murder, we arrested the killer. All the credit goes to Raja,” said a police official. In 2018, Raja helped police pick up clues to track down a woman who had killed her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-bids-adieu-to-canine-hero-who-helped-crack-murders/articleshow/75636958.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||New projects: Labour laws exempted||AHMEDABAD: The government of Gujarat on Friday announced exemption of labour laws for 1,200 days to employers for new projects in the state. The decision, according to Gujarat chief minister, Vijay Rupani, is aimed at increasing economic activity in the state and create more opportunities for fresh employment in the state. The state government has decided to issue an ordinance in this regard and it will soon be notified by the state labour and employment department. The chief minister however made it clear that none of the existing factories will be given any relaxation from labour laws and it is solely aimed at new projects. “If one sets up the new establishment within six months from the date of the ordinance getting passed, then the concerned unit will get exemption from all the labour laws for 1,200 days from the date of production,” said a senior state government official. The exemptions will not however be extended for minimum wage payment, ensuring security of employees and paying compensation in case of injury or death at workplace. “Due to the corona virus pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb the rise in number of cases, we will have to face many challenges. However, to increase economic activity, give a start to new projects and reduce unemployment, we have proposed that if someone comes up with a new project, the project will get complete relief from labour laws except for three aspects,” said Rupani during his address through social media. “In order to protect interest of labourers, relief will not be extended for three aspects. Minimum wages will have to be paid and all rules to ensure safety of labourers will have to be followed. That apart, if any accident takes place wherein a labourer gets injured or succumbs, compensation will have to be given in accordance with the laws,” said Rupani. Rupani urged industrialists to apply online and promised approvals will soon be given. Industries were expecting a relief package for existing units, however, the same has not been extended yet. “We were waiting for a relief package for existing industries. But the government has not yet announced any measures. We hope the demands of existing industries, which are currently in a very bad situation, are considered,” said Durgesh Buch, president, GCCI. The decision has been taken to attract companies from across the world to Gujarat, especially those which are eyeing to move out of Gujarat. “We have earmarked the land in Sanand, Dahej SEZ and other GIDCs across the state so that big companies invest here and the MSME ancillary units here get more work. The state government has contacted the embassies of various foreign countries and sent out invitations to companies to visit Gujarat. Nodal officers have been designated for companies coming here,” said Rupani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-projects-labour-laws-exempted/articleshow/75636691.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Funds for salaries late and inadequate: DU colleges||NEW DELHI: For the second time this year, Delhi government has allegedly released inadequate funds for the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff of 12 Delhi University colleges, that too after a month-long delay. The colleges complained that the funds released for two months were so low that they could not fully pay the staff for even one month. TOI earlier reported how colleges were facing funds crunch and had to bank on their savings to pay some teachers in March. The funds meant to come in January 2020 was released in March. According to the sanction letter issued by the directorate of higher education on late Thursday, Rs 18 crore 75 lakh has been released as grant-in-aid for the salaries of the 100% Delhi government-funded DU colleges. But the principal of one of the 12 colleges complained that not only the amount was inadequate for even a month’s salary, “the funds sanctioned for one month’s salary comes to an annual amount that is relatively less than last year’s. How can colleges pay arrears as per the new pay commission with this less money”? To meet the gap in March, many colleges took loans from their student funds or used savings meant for infrastructure projects. “But we cannot do that every month. Even in this pandemic period, we will have to withhold some salaries,” said another principal. The funds are also meant for just salaries, not other expenditures like infrastructure maintenance and electricity bills, claimed a principal. “They have set a condition that unless colleges start their governing bodies (GB), there would be no funds. But GB formation is entirely between the government and the university administration. Why stop people’s salaries?” he added. A government functionary, however, rejected the allegations, claiming full funds, as per the Delhi budget, had been released. “The funds due are clearly outlined in the budget, they can’t claim whatever they wish,” he told TOI. The criticism of the government action has come from various quarters. “The government is linking the release of grant with GB nominations and penalising the employees who have no role in it. Stopping reimbursement of medical bills, children education allowance etc is also not justified,” said former DU executive council member A K Bhagi. Sujit Kumar, a professor at BR Ambedkar College, said “Delhi government is testing our patience in this situation. Salary is our right but they are treating us like beggars.” DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray also said “the government shouldn’t link the release of grants with GB formations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/funds-for-salaries-late-and-inadequate-du-colleges/articleshow/75635594.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: 2nd styrene tank at LG plant worries officials||HYDERABAD: A day after the styrene vapour leak resulted in the loss of 12 lives near LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, all eyes are on the second storage tank with 2,500 metric tonnes of styrene, which officials surmise is a potential danger to people of Venkatapuram and nearby villages. No arrests have yet been made in the gas leak case. AP special chief secretary PV Ramesh agreed that unless the second storage tank was neutralised, the evacuated people cannot be moved back to their dwellings. “Investigative agencies have to immediately look into the aspect of second storage tank lying intact and why the leakage has happened only from the 1,800MT tank,” he told TOI. “The temperature of the tank has to be below 20 degrees. But, one of the tanks has failed while on refrigeration,” he added. While AP police are looking at the role of technical engineers at LG Polymers and other aspects like why the siren was not sounded despite the gas billowing out of the tank, director general of police Gautam Sawang said: “We received the call at 3.25 am. That means the leak could have happened half an hour before it. Our men reached the spot in 9 minutes. Quick Reaction Team and Rakhak teams were rescuing people in that early morning hour,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, South Korean ambassador to India Shin Bong-Kil has expressed his willingness to visit the LG Chem plant and meet AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy.“LG and South Korean officials are very apologetic for the mishap...LG is also in discussions for handing out a reasonable compensation to the kin of the deceased,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2nd-styrene-tank-at-lg-plant-worries-officials/articleshow/75636976.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||FCI to pay Rs 112cr for rice distribution||Hyderabad: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) will pay Rs 112 crore to the Telangana government for the distribution of 2.80 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of rice to white ration card holders. The state has so far distributed 3.30 lakh MT of rice in April and 60 lakh MT of rice in the second phase of distribution in May. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised the distribution of 5 kg rice while announcing the nationwide lockdown. FCI officials said that the rice promised by PM Modi is being supplied to the states in the form of grain or money. - Roushan Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fci-to-pay-rs-112cr-for-rice-distribution/articleshow/75636710.cms||Roushan Ali
May 9, 2020||Goa||8 bars in Canacona sealed for selling liquor in lockdown 2.0||Poinguinim: Eight bars along the old Canacona highway, suspected to have been selling liquor during lockdown 2.0, from April 14 to May 3, have been sealed. Canacona excise inspector Vishwas Kandolkar told TOI that the action was taken based on complaints received about the bars violating lockdown orders and selling liquor illegally. Meanwhile, 10 liquor wholesale outlets and 12 packed bottle permit holder outlets, which had been sealed earlier, were unsealed following partial relaxation of the lockdown. Kandolkar further said that across Canacona, 365 licences have been issued for retail sale of liquor and to operate bars, bar and restaurants and hotels. Also, 17 cashew distillery licences have so far been obtained by those interested in extracting cashew liquor. The excise office will be maintaining a strict vigil to avoid any violations by these license holders, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/8-bars-in-canacona-sealed-for-selling-liquor-in-lockdown-2-0/articleshow/75637353.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Youth set ablaze, another attacked with battery acid||LUCKNOW: In a spate of alcohol-induced violence in the city after liquor sale resumed five days ago, a youth was attacked on Friday with battery acid in Madiaon during a booze session. In a similar incident on Wednesday, a drunken brawl took an ugly turn when a youth was sent ablaze by his acquaintance following a verbal spat. Police records show at least 12 violent incidents related to binge drinking since liquor vends opened. In one of the incidents, a person was murdered over a petty dispute in Gautampalli by his ‘friend’ of 15 years. Police said, Madioan residents Mandeep Singh, 19, and his friend Satya Prakash, 28, entered into a verbal duel after consuming alcohol. Mandeep lost his cool and tossed battery acid on Prakash, inflicting 5% burns on his face and limbs. “Mandeep was arrested and Prakash hospitalised,” said station house officer, Madiaon, Vipin Singh. Mandeep and Prakash knew each other well and lived in the same locality. In another case, Shivnath Sahu, 28, and Deepu, 25, were drinking outside their village at Baghamau in Gomtinagar Extension, when sparks began flying. Deepu did not react when Sahu hurled abuses at him. Instead, he asked Sahu to bring some petrol from his bike, claiming he was out of fuel. An unsuspecting Sahu obliged. Suddenly Deepu lunged at Sahu and doused him with petrol and lobbed a burning matchstick at him, said SHO, Gomtinagar Extension, Ram Surat Sonkar. Deepu fled the spot, while Sahu suffered 30% burns. Residents informed police and took Sahu to SPM Civil Hospital, where doctors said his condition was critical. A case of attempt to murder was registered. Shivnath and Deepu have been friends for years and live near each other’s house. Police said they were raiding houses of friends and relatives of Deepu and his friends to get clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-set-ablaze-another-attacked-with-battery-acid/articleshow/75637350.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Govt will increase testing capacity to 10,000 samples per day soon, says Sriram||Dharwad: In the wake of many erstwhile ‘Green Zone’ districts in Karnataka reporting Covid-19 cases in the past week, and more so following the easing of restrictions, health minister B Sriramulu on Friday said that the government would increase the operational capacity of laboratories to cope with the rise in the number of individuals suspected of having the infection. Sriramulu, in Dharwad to review the situation in the district, pointed out that the state government had commenced random sampling in hotspots. “We will soon have extraction kiosks up and running at the hotspots,” he added. He said that the state had already procured one lakh rapid testing kits, and an order for 50,000 more had been placed. “As of now, there are 32 laboratories testing samples for Covid-19 across the state, and there is a growing demand for having one in each district,” said Sriramulu, adding that chief minister BS Yediyurappa had indicated his willingness to earmark funds for the laboratories. The minister said that, across 32 laboratories, nearly 7,000 samples were being tested per day. “The goal is to increase that number to 10,000 in a week’s time,” said Sriramulu. He said that the number of fever clinics would be doubled to serve those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza like illnesses (ILI). On measures being adopted to secure those returning to the state from abroad, Sriramulu said, “Around 6,500 Kannadigas will arrive in Bengaluru between May 11 and May 15, and the government has issued fresh guidelines, which will mandate 14-day institutional quarantine for all those returning home.” Sriramulu said that there were only five Covid-19 active cases in Dharwad district. “Across the district, 4,009 individuals have been asked to stay quarantined at home, while seven continue to stay isolated at a hospital. We are still waiting for the results of 169 throat swab samples,” said Sriramulu, who inspected the facilities at the Dharwad District Civil Hospital, where he interacted with nurses and other staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-will-increase-testing-capacity-to-10000-samples-per-day-soon-says-sriram/articleshow/75632726.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Schools asked to create Whatspp group to resume admission process||DEHRADUN: The state education department has asked schools to start circulating information regarding the admission process via WhatsApp groups. The education department released an order on Friday stating that the annual student intake in schools has been affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Each school has been ordered to create a WhatsApp group and include parents and guardians in it with the help of different associations like parents’ body, Gram Pradhan, management committee, local public representatives, and others. All information related to the admission process of schools will be shared on the WhatsApp group for facilitating parents. Chief education officer Asha Rani Painuly said that this process will ensure that the parents are aware of all the details regarding school admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-asked-to-create-whatspp-group-to-resume-admission-process/articleshow/75635587.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drivers throng post offices for relief, flout distancing norms||BENGALURU: Post offices witnessed huge queues on Friday after a social media post claiming cab and auto drivers needed to fill a form and post a letter to the transport minister to get the Rs 5,000 compensation triggered confusion. The rumour forced many drivers to rush to their nearest post offices: Several lined up at Girinagar, Srinagar, Rajajinagar and Peenya without following social-distancing protocol despite Bengaluru being in a red zone. TimesViewSpreading rumours at a time of crisis is reprehensible. They give rise to false hopes and create tension when people find their dreams dashed. The result could lead to violent incidents, threatening an already precarious situation. The fact that social media posts seem to be accepted unquestioningly is also worrying. The government should undertake a publicity blitz when it announces new schemes, one that includes clear instructions on the procedure for availing these benefits. As the saying goes, “Poor communication kills.”They posted an application seeking the amount and a form that had been circulated by some auto driver unions ostensibly to create a database. A post office in Peenya alone received 300 letters. The social media post first appeared on Facebook and was later circulated on WhatsApp. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced on Wednesday that auto and taxi drivers in Karnataka, around 7.7 lakh in number, would be given a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 each. Many drivers haven’t been running their vehicles for more than 40 days and are desperate for money. “We have no income due to the lockdown. We are struggling to get essential items so I didn’t think twice after hearing about the message,” said K Manjunath, a driver who was standing in front of a post office in Srinagar with a mask. Sources said some driver unions had internally created a form to ‘help’ drivers and ‘simplify’ the process of getting the relief. There are allegations that some of these unions collected Rs 200 per form. The social media post claimed cab/auto drivers affected by the lockdown have to fill the form and submit it along with a copy of their licence and Aadhaar card to their area post office. It said the government will credit Rs 5,000 to their bank accounts. However, the transport department later clarified that drivers can claim the compensation through the Seva Sindhu portal and it will be credited to their bank accounts. “There is no need send any letters to get the money. The facility will be available on the portal in a week,” said an official. The transport minister’s office is now worried about the number of letters to be received from the drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-drivers-throng-post-offices-for-relief-flout-distancing-norms/articleshow/75635278.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Mushroom growers struggle under lockdown||DEHRADUN: The lockdown has put many small businesses in a tight spot, especially mushroom growers of Tehri Garhwal, several of whom are struggling, with sales having dropped significantly as the perishable goods are not getting transported to the markets. One such Tehri Garhwal-based mushroom grower, Monika Panwar, told TOI that apart from the pandemic, an extended winter this year has also affected growth of the fungi. “This year, we’re facing cold weather in Tehri even in May. This is the ideal season for growing mushrooms, but because there has been extra snowfall compared to other years and a mild summer so far, our crop has suffered. Those who cultivate manually have suffered more than bigger players who deploy advanced technology to counter uncertain weather conditions. In fact, some of them have given this crop season the miss and saved the investment,” said Panwar. A small-scale mushroom farmer, Bir Singh, told TOI that due to the lockdown and poor weather conditions, he decided to skip planting mushrooms this season, and switched to the business of transportation instead. “I’m afraid that post-lockdown, purchasing power of people will fall especially in the hills, which is our prime market. Locals consume a lot more mushrooms than people of the plains, but their purchasing power is already weaker than the plains people. I was supposed to plant mushrooms for this season in late March, but refrained from it as the lockdown had already been announced,” added Panwar. Mushroom cultivators who had already planted for the season are struggling the most. “We’re currently trying to sell our produce. We’re in no mood to plant another lot until the market stabilises. This used to be our peak season, as lots of weddings used to take place in the hill stations like Mussoorie, and we would get big orders. Sending our products to wholesale grocery markets in Dehradun and Rishikesh is a challenge, as there are limited transport options. Also, the rates we are getting are very low. Earlier, we used to sell at Rs 100/kg. Now, it’s around Rs 40/kg,” said Kuldeep Rawat, another mushroom cultivator in Tehri Garhwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mushroom-growers-struggle-under-lockdown/articleshow/75635597.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli district records 2 new Covid-19 patients||Kolhapur: Sangli district recorded two new Covid-19 patients, taking the total number to nine. While one patient is from Sangli city, another is from a village in Jaat taluka. Both the patients are said to have returned from Mumbai. According to official information released by the district administration, a resident of Revenue Colony from Sangli city tested positive for Covid-19. His throat swab sample was sent for testing on Wednesday. The district administration has taken a serious cognizance of the incident as the said person had returned from Mumbai last week in violation to the lockdown and inter-state travel norms laid down by the government. The second Covid-19 positive patient from Ankle village in Jaat taluka, too, returned from Mumbai without any official permission. His throat swab sample was sent for testing, the report of which was received on Thursday. The administration is planning to initiate legal action against both the individuals as they had entered the district illegally. Officials said that the Covid-19 patient from Ankle village had come from Chembur in Mumbai by a truck. Initial inquiry revealed that he alighted from the truck at Nagaj phata and walked down to the village. However, some local residents noticed him and alerted the authorities. The administration is now on the lookout for all those who had come in contact with him during the journey. Meanwhile, district collector Abhijit Chaudhary said that he would review the relaxation terms in Sangli city after ensuring that people are following social distancing at all times. Chaudhary said that he would talk to associations of traders and shopkeepers before making a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-district-records-2-new-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75635602.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram has 75 active cases and one Covid hospital as Medanta halts admission||GURUGRAM: While the city teeters on the edge of becoming a red zone with increasing number of novel coronavirus cases every day, Gurugram has only one functioning Covid hospital at the moment. Medanta, which had been treating Covid-19 patients, is not taking on any more cases now. The reason is a technicality — that it is not a designated Covid-19 hospital. “Gurugram has dedicated Covid-19 hospitals where patients are getting treatment. Medanta is not a Covid-19 hospital, so we are not taking any patients,” said Dr Naresh Trehan, chairperson and managing director of Medanta Hospitals. That leaves ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 as the only functioning Covid hospital for Gurugram residents. “We are getting patients admitted to ESIC. We are also taking some of them to SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera (about 12 km from the city), which has 300 beds. We have also engaged six private hospitals in the city and added 600 beds for Covid-19 patients,” said Gurugram chief medical officer JS Punia. But the new units in private hospitals are not operational yet. Nor is a 500-bed Covid hospital at Manesar. “We were supposed to start the Medeor Hospital operations but could not because of technical problems. He hope to get it up and running by next week,” the chief medical officer added. The hospital was supposed to become a Covid hospital by April. This has put ESIC under a lot of pressure. The 126-bed hospital has 72 doctors, 80 nurses and 66 patients. Which means it can take on 60 more patients before it runs out of beds. The city has reported 68 cases since last Friday (an average of 8.5 a day). If that trend continues, it will run out of beds in another week. But there has been a staff shortage at the hospital and the staff turning up are not being tested enough. “One of our own doctors has tested positive for Covid-19. However, people who were in contact with the doctor were not tested. They were not even put in quarantine,” said a doctor from the hospital. Some doctors said it’s possible that private hospitals have stopped taking on Covid-19 cases as a conscious decision because of the number of private hospital staff who got infected. So far, 15 healthcare workers in the district have tested positive for Covid-19. Twelve were from Medanta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-has-75-active-cases-one-covid-hospital-as-medanta-halts-admission/articleshow/75635586.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 9, 2020||Delhi||CBSE to pick evaluators from green zones||NEW DELHI: The evaluation of papers already finished in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations, will begin soon and will be done only in Covid-free green zones of the states. It will be ‘evaluation at home’, with bags of the answer sheets delivered to the residences of the evaluators. The circular sent by CBSE to the chief nodal officers, central supervisors, head examiners, has details regarding the evaluation work. As the lockdown was announced the evaluation work was deferred from March 19 and examinations also could not be held. “Recently, the Centre accorded permission to CBSE to complete evaluation of the remaining answer sheets of examinations already conducted. During the evaluation work, all precautions are to be taken by the functionaries to avoid spread of Covid-19. Further, it has been decided that all the head examiners and additional head examiners will also act as evaluators so that the evaluation can be completed early,” said the circular issued by CBSE, a copy of which was with TOI. Detailing out the guidelines, the board said, “evaluation will only be done in corona free zones/districts/states as declared by the authority.” The Chief Nodal Supervisors(CNS) — mostly heads of different schools — will have to work in close contact with the local administration of all the states and districts. As per the plan laid out by CBSE, bags will be prepared with 200 answer sheets in each, which will be sent to CNSs with the help of regional offices. The CNSs will be responsible for arranging vehicles to transport the bags to the residences of the evaluators. The CNS will have to take a picture of the Aadhar card, pan card and school identity card of the evaluator while delivering the bag. The evaluators will be given seven days to evaluate one bag. The answer sheets checked by the evaluators will then be re-checked by the head examiner and additional head examiner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-to-pick-evaluators-from-green-zones/articleshow/75635615.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Had to pay Rs 2.10 lakh to return home, say priests back in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The 30 priests (purohits) who came back to Uttarakhand on Friday after chartering bus from Surat, almost 1,600 kilometres from the Himalyan state, allege that they did not receive any help from the government and had to spend a total of Rs 2.10 lakh to return home. The priests, who were stuck in Gujarat for last 50 days, say that the money they paid for the journey was arranged from temple donations, loans, and their personal savings. Kailash Chandra Jagoodi, a purohit who reached his home in Dehradun on Friday morning, told TOI that around 30 priests from Dehradun, Uttarkashi, and Tehri had gone to Surat before the lockdown to conduct “Navratri Puja”. “We go to Gujarat every year during Navratri as more priests are needed there at that time. It’s also one of the income sources for us. But this year, we made huge losses due to the trip. We had to pay for accommodation there as dharamshalas and hotels were shut due to the lockdown. It was even more challenging for those who had gone there with their families,” said Jagoodi while adding that he made repeated attempts to seek help from the state government but to no avail. Deepram Gairola, another priest who came back from Surat, claimed that they had to survive on chapati and dal as they had no money to afford vegetables regularly. “After getting to know that the Uttarakhand is bringing back stranded people, we got our registration done on the state government’s website and even called officials but no one helped,” he said. A local activist Vijendra Singh Rawat helped in getting passes from Surat district administration and hired a bus at Rs 2.10 lakh for us to come back home, added Gairola “As some of had just Rs 1,000-2,000 left, paying this amount was a challenging task. We collected donations from people living nearby in Surat. However, we had to take a loan from a local resident as we were still short of Rs 35,000-40,000,” informed Jagoodi, who is now under home quarantine in Dehradun. The priests claim that though they were just 30 in number, they had to bear the expense of all the 56 seats in the bus. Another priest Sampoornanad Penuli, who hails from Uttarkashi, claimed that Gangotri MLA Gopal Singh Rana Rawat and state minister Subodh Uniyal were contacted by them but they just gave assurances and no help. “We request the government to pay us the money that was spent on this trip as we had collected it from locals in Surat and we are supposed to pay them back,” he added. Meanwhile, MLA Rawat said that he had assured the priests of help but they didn’t wait for him to send help. “We are already bringing back thousands of stranded locals from across the country. I had asked the priests to register online and wait. I request the stranded locals to wait for help and not take decisions in a hurry,” he said, while adding that the decision of reimbursing the money of their travel will be taken after a meeting with the priests. Reacting on the matter, state Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik has said that the government will get in touch with these people and will help them in whatever ways possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/had-to-pay-rs-2-10l-to-return-home-say-priests-back-in-ukhand/articleshow/75635603.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 9, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh hits 50 as three more tests positive||SHIMLA: Three persons, including a two-year-old girl, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 50, and the number of active cases to 10. The minor girl is daughter of a person who had tested positive on Wednesday and had returned from Baddi in Solan district to Salooni in Chamba district on April 30. This is for the first case of a child getting the Covid-19 infection in Himachal Pradesh. The district administration had sent the samples of his primary and secondary contacts, including family members, for testing. Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia 38 samples were sent for testing from Chamba, of which 37 tested negative while the 2-year-old’s tested positive. He said even those who have returned should ensure proper social distancing within the family during home quarantine. The other two have who tested positive include a 25-year-old from Jhirballa village of Kangra district and a 42-year-old from Dudhar village in Hamirpur district. The Kangra resident had returned from Delhi on April 28 along with three others while the Dudhar villager, who tested positive late Thursday evening, had returned from Delhi along with his family on April 29. His samples were taken on May 6, after he developed mild symptoms of the virus, and tested at the Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) laboratory in Palampur. Now, samples of 11 members of his family and other contacts are also being taken. It has emerged that the family had violated the home quarantine norm by calling a barber at home. The district administration has now initiate action against the family and the barber. Till Sunday, the state was left with only one positive case of coronavirus, out of 40 reported and it was expected to become Covid-19 free. However, now there has been a sudden spurt in cases, as nine new positive cases have been detected in the state since Monday, of which four have Delhi travel history. As over one lakh people from other states have returned, it is feared that the count of Covid-19 positive cases would rise in Himachal in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-hits-50-as-3-more-tests-positive/articleshow/75638735.cms||Anand Bodh
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||248 SRPF jawans positive across Maharashtra, 73 from Aurangabad alone||PUNE/AURANGABAD: The 16,500-strong State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), which has the mandate for law and order, disaster management and anti-naxal duties, has so far reported 248 Covid-19 positive cases among its jawans deployed across the state. This includes 73 jawans from the SRPF’s Aurangabad Camp, who tested positive on Friday for the contagion after returning on May 5 from a 45-day lockdown stint in Malegaon — a Covid-19 hotbed in Nashik district. “Almost 99% of our 248 jawans, having tested positive so far, were found to be asymptomatic cases. They are doing fine in hospitals and quarantine facilities,” additional director general of police Archana Tyagi, who heads the SRPF, told TOI. A bulk of the 248 cases have been reported from the Marathwada region from where deployments were made to Malegaon. On Thursday, MNS chief Raj Thackeray had suggested that SRPF platoons be deployed in the containment areas in Mumbai to relieve the overburdened regular police personnel. However, the special force is grappling with problems of its own. Meanwhile, doctors at the civil hospital in Hingoli, where 60 SRPF jawans are taking treatment, have complained about feeling threatened by the “unruly behaviour” of the jawans at the hospital. The Hingoli civil surgeon has complained to the local SRPF commandant about this. In Jalna, two SRPF jawans, who had fled bandobast duties in Malegaon, tested positive for the virus after returning to the force. “We are taking a review of both these incidents,” Tyagi said. She said, “Twenty-four companies (each comprising nearly 100 men) are currently deployed for Covid-19 duties across the state. Another 12 companies have been placed under isolation on return to the camp headquarters after their 45-day stint.” Asked about any deployment plans for Mumbai/Pune, Tyagi said, “There is no such distinction. Our deployment is totally based on the requisition we get from the office of the state director general of police.” Aurangabad’s civic health officer Nita Padalkar told TOI, “As many as 110 SRPF jawans have been quarantined at an engineering college in Satara Parisar on their return from Malegaon. On Friday, 73 of them tested positive. Five of them, who showed symptoms, have been shifted to a private hospital. The remaining 37 who tested negative are in isolation.” (With inputs by Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/248-srpf-jawans-infected-across-state-73-from-aurangabad-alone/articleshow/75640458.cms||Vishwas Kothari
May 9, 2020||Aurangabad||248 SRPF jawans positive across Maharashtra, 73 from Aurangabad alone||PUNE/AURANGABAD: The 16,500-strong State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), which has the mandate for law and order, disaster management and anti-naxal duties, has so far reported 248 Covid-19 positive cases among its jawans deployed across the state. This includes 73 jawans from the SRPF’s Aurangabad Camp, who tested positive on Friday for the contagion after returning on May 5 from a 45-day lockdown stint in Malegaon — a Covid-19 hotbed in Nashik district. “Almost 99% of our 248 jawans, having tested positive so far, were found to be asymptomatic cases. They are doing fine in hospitals and quarantine facilities,” additional director general of police Archana Tyagi, who heads the SRPF, told TOI. A bulk of the 248 cases have been reported from the Marathwada region from where deployments were made to Malegaon. On Thursday, MNS chief Raj Thackeray had suggested that SRPF platoons be deployed in the containment areas in Mumbai to relieve the overburdened regular police personnel. However, the special force is grappling with problems of its own. Meanwhile, doctors at the civil hospital in Hingoli, where 60 SRPF jawans are taking treatment, have complained about feeling threatened by the “unruly behaviour” of the jawans at the hospital. The Hingoli civil surgeon has complained to the local SRPF commandant about this. In Jalna, two SRPF jawans, who had fled bandobast duties in Malegaon, tested positive for the virus after returning to the force. “We are taking a review of both these incidents,” Tyagi said. She said, “Twenty-four companies (each comprising nearly 100 men) are currently deployed for Covid-19 duties across the state. Another 12 companies have been placed under isolation on return to the camp headquarters after their 45-day stint.” Asked about any deployment plans for Mumbai/Pune, Tyagi said, “There is no such distinction. Our deployment is totally based on the requisition we get from the office of the state director general of police.” Aurangabad’s civic health officer Nita Padalkar told TOI, “As many as 110 SRPF jawans have been quarantined at an engineering college in Satara Parisar on their return from Malegaon. On Friday, 73 of them tested positive. Five of them, who showed symptoms, have been shifted to a private hospital. The remaining 37 who tested negative are in isolation.” (With inputs by Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/248-srpf-jawans-infected-across-state-73-from-aurangabad-alone/articleshow/75637359.cms||Vishwas Kothari
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Two more killed in violence while boozing||TRICHY: A 27-year-old history-sheeter was hacked to death by three of his friends in an inebriated condition in Thanjavur while a 50-year-old man was killed at Kulithalai in Karur on Thursday. Arunkumar of Keelavasal was murdered by a three-member gang at a house late in the night. Thanjavur East police, which took up the investigation, said he was drinking liquor with the trio in the house of one of them. During the party, Arunkumar and one of the three picked up a quarrel and the other two came in support of the other. They hacked Arunkumar to death with a machete and fled. In the other incident, a 50-year-old man from Kulithalai was hacked to death late on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Saravanan of Nachalur who was working as a lab technician at a laboratory near Nachalur bus stand. While two people have been detained for inquiry, police suspect that he was murdered to avenge another murder that took place on April 21. Saravanan’s body was spotted by night patrolling police near his house with multiple stab injuries on his head. Kulithalai police arrived at the spot and sent his body to the government hospital for post mortem. According to police, Saravanan had booze with his relatives Muruganandam and Sellamuthu on Thursday night. While Muruganandam’s uncle Anbalagan, a milk trader, was murdered on April 21 by a four-member gang, he suspected Saravanan’s hand in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-more-killed-in-violence-while-boozing/articleshow/75636705.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After Manisha Sisodia's note, chief secretary asks officials to get cracking||NEW DELHI: Chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday asked all district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to “facilitate” the commencement of “permissible economic activities” as per the revised guideline of the Union home ministry. In an order issued as the chairperson of the state executive committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Dev said Delhi government had been apprised that several of these activities were not being allowed by different government authorities and residents welfare associations (RWAs), which was contrary to the spirit of the Centre’s orders and subsequent guidelines. Giving the lists of prohibited and permitted activities as per the revised guidelines for Lockdown 3.0, Dev directed all DMs and DCPs to ensure that the field officials were “adequately informed and sensitised” about the instructions regarding the permissible activities and “strict compliance” was ensured. The directions came days after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sent him a terse note saying Delhi government had received several complaints regarding private offices in district centres like Nehru Place not being allowed to operate, DM and DCP offices putting additional restrictions for opening industrial units and RWAs prescribing their own rules for entry of self-employed people such as electricians, plumbers and domestic workers. “These instances are absolutely unacceptable and it is the duty of district magistrates to ensure the economic activity commences in the NCT of Delhi,” Sisodia had said. “It is necessary for all of us to fight Covid disease and it is equally a mandate on part of the DMs to ensure that the permitted activity begins at once during the permitted hours. All DMs and DCPs be accordingly instructed to give message to all enforcement officers... to come with the mindset of facilitators.” Dev directed the DMs to issue similar instructions under Disaster Management Act 2005 “so that the same are implemented in letter and spirit by all field functionaries”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-sisodia-note-cs-asks-officials-to-get-cracking/articleshow/75635636.cms||Atul Mathur
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Cheers! Tokens reduce crowding at liquor outlets||Nashik: The method to issue tokens to people through WhatsApp numbers by liquor shop owners yielded positive results on Friday, as fewer number of customers were seen at the outlets and social distancing norm was followed. After getting permission from district administration, the liquor shopowners have put up their WhatsApp contact numbers on the front side of the outlets so that there is no rush of people the next day. “We have displayed WhatAapp contact numbers at shops to facilitate customers to book their orders and avoid coming to the outlets randomly. Accordingly, we had given time-slot of one hour and delivered the products to around 500 customers throughout the day,” said an owner of a wine shop. “Only those customers possessing order numbers and time slots were allowed to buy liquor,” said another wine shop owner. Earlier, the district administration had given permissions to open the shops between 10am and 4 pm but later changed it to 9 am to 5 pm. On Monday, the liquor shops opened in the district but were forced to close down within an hour due to the huge rush of customers and absence of social distancing. The district administration had released an order on a ban on liquor sales from the following day. The Nashik district liquor shops owners’ association blamed the district administration for releasing the order very late, around 2.30pm, saying that people had already made long queues outside shops since morning. They approached district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who directed the administration to allow liquor sale in the district. Accordingly, the administration gave permission with effect from Friday based on certain conditions and released a fresh order on Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, a strict police bandobast was maintained at all the liquor shops from 10 am to 5 pm. Police officers and personnel of all the police stations in the city were ensuring that the crowds did not go out of control. Police also ensured that people in queues maintained sufficient distance from each other to prevent any scope of infection. Police officers said that the rush would reduce further in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cheers-tokens-reduce-crowding-at-liquor-outlets/articleshow/75635610.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens to be fined, police case if caught second time||Slug: Flouting social distancingKolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has decided to fine the citizens if found violating social distancing norms in the public areas. Citizens would be fined Rs 500 for not following the rules and if the offence is committed twice police would register a case against the said individual. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti issued an order and set up five teams in the five divisional wards. The KMC has already taken stringent action against shop operators and vendors for not using masks and gloves. They are fined Rs 500 if they do not maintain a distance of 20 feet from the nearest vendor. A fine is also imposed on people spitting in the open. The decision was taken after observing people behaviour at the market places since the lockdown has been eased. Markets, shops are witnessing huge rush in the morning and evening hours. The KMC along with police administration is thinking to impose fine on those seen on roads between 7.00 pm to 7.00 am during which the prohibitory orders are in place. The police administration has ordered the shops to close at the earliest so that the staff and people return home. Kalshetti said the rush of people in the current situation is simply not tolerable. “We have tried many things from ensuring delivery of essentials to the doorsteps and decentralising of the markets so that people stay at home. People flouting social distancing are at risk to get infected from coronavirus. I have set up five teams that make random visits in their areas in the morning and evening. They will get the details of the people flouting social distancing and impose fine on them. Since the teams are connected to the locals they can easily spot the people and vendors who are repeatedly found not observing social distancing. We will file a police complaint against such people," he said. The provision of fine and police complaints has been made considering the provisions in the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, and Maharashtra Covid-19 Management Rules. The officials claimed that so far no one has been imposed a fine. The naming and shaming of such people will deter people from flouting social distancing says the officials. "We are also going to fine the shops where no arrangements such as marking or barricading is done to ensure social distancing and regulate the crowd. Directions have been issued to the traders body, they too have agreed to such arrangements. We may prohibit them from opening shops if the situation continues to remain same even after the fine," added Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-to-be-fined-police-case-if-caught-second-time/articleshow/75635608.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Trichy||Women lead protests for closure of Tasmac outlets||TRICHY/MADURAI/COIMBATORE: A day after political parties and anti-liquor activists registered their protest against the reopening of Tasmac wine shops, protests by the general public, led mostly by women, erupted at several places on Friday demanding closure of the outlets. In Trichy, a group of residents at Azhagiripuram near Thiruvanaikovil protested against two liquor outlets. The women said the reopening of wine shops had disrupted the peace in their families. “Our livelihood depends on the income from washing clothes and we had no business for the past 40 days. Our men had almost kicked the habit when they are tempted to drink again now," says M Bhuvaneswari, a protester at Azhagiripuram. Another woman, R Lakshmi, says, "He was calm for the 40 days. As soon as the shop opened, he got his booze. As I questioned him, he ransacked our house and beat me up," she said. During the protests, the women even poured the PDS rice distributed to them on the road citing its inferior quality. Officials of Tasmac, revenue department and the police tried to pacify them but the protestors stood firm. Finally, a peace committee meeting was convened and it was agreed to shift the two shops in one month but until then they would function. In Ariyalur, the women of Kotiyal village protested by carrying black umbrellas demanding the closure of a wine shop. The police tried to convince them as tipplers were waiting in the queue. As the women stood firm, the officials agreed to close the shop on Friday itself. At Meenatchipuram in Madurai, as many as 40 people along with CPM members staged a protest in front of a Tasmac outlet. A police team which arrived at the spot started forcibly removing the protesters leading to a mild scuffle. They picked up nearly 20 men and took them to a marriage hall nearby while chasing away the women. Though the outlet was briefly opened after the police officials cleared the people, the shop was closed subsequently. Similar protests were reported at K Pudur, S S Colony and Tallakulam police limits in Madurai city and Kadupatti and Melavalavu police limits in the district. Though protest had broken out at a few places in Coimbatore on Thursday, there were no such incidents on Friday. It was mostly women who gathered in front of the liquor outlets at Pooluvapatti in Coimbatore and another outlet in Pollachi. T||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/women-lead-protests-for-closure-of-tasmac-outlets/articleshow/75636713.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Mismatch in Covid-19 new cases||BHOPAL: At the time when battle against Covid-19 has reached a critical state, complete confusion prevailed in the state capital regarding the actual number of Covid-19 patients on Friday. Different government agencies put out different numbers adding to the confusion. Speaking to TOI, CMHO Dr Prabhakar Tiwari said, “On Friday, 17 new coronavirus cases were detected in Bhopal, taking the overall count of coronavirus patients in the city to 679. At the same time, 20 patients were discharged from hospitals.” Dr Tiwari also said that reports of 1,574 samples were received on Friday. Meanwhile the bulletin issued by district administration, however, stated that the number of patients in Bhopal went up to 686 with 24 new cases reported in the day. The chaos around numbers increased when state bulletin stated that Covid patients now stand at 679 from 652, thereby meaning that 27 new coronavirus patients were found on Friday. Among them, 278 are stable, 23 are serious, 354 have recovered fully from the infection and gone back home, stated state bulletin. There have been 24 coronavirus deaths in the city. AIIMS, Bhopal, director, Sarman Singh, said that two patients, who were discharged during the were part of the four-member family under treatment at the institute. The remaining two members of the family too would be discharged shortly, he said. Director of Chirayu hospital, Dr Ajay Goenka, said that early oxygen therapy being given to coronavirus patients in the hospital has yielded good results. A total of 18 patients were discharged from Chirayu hospital. With this, a total of 397 coronavirus patients have recovered following treatment at the hospital, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mismatch-in-covid-new-cases/articleshow/75636707.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat emerging as gateway for Amur falcons: Wildlife Institute of India||AHMEDABAD: After flying over African lions while crossing Africa, Amur falcons have started arriving in the land of Asiatic lions. Gujarat it seems has emerged as a gateway for these long-distance migratory birds. This is evident from the findings of Wildlife Institute of India which has been studying the pathways of satellite-tagged Amur falcons from Nagaland and Manipur. So far it has radio-tagged about 15 Amur falcons to study migration pathways and environmental patterns.  Amur falcons are known to have among the longest migration routes, covering 22,000km. Having flown 3,200km non-stop over the Arabian Sea, ‘Irang’, a sub-adult Amur falcon, entered Gujarat to the south of Porbandar in the Gir forest region at 1am on May 3. The development comes ahead of World Migratory Birds Day on May 9, which is to be marked across the world with the theme “Birds Connect Our World”. The United Nations-led campaign aims to raise awareness of migratory birds and the importance of international cooperation to conserve them. The Amur falcon is a small raptor of the falcon family that breeds in Siberia and Northern China and migrates to southern Africa in the winter. They visit India on their return leg. The migration happens in very large numbers and the sheer size of the flock makes it a sight to behold. Nagaland, where the birds were once hunted in large numbers, is today, thanks to conservation efforts by the local and forest department, known as the falcon capital of the world with about a million birds dotting the skies every year. Besides Nagaland, the birds are spotted in large numbers in Manipur and Assam as well. “Gujarat is one of the major entry points for the Amurs on their return migration. The Amur falcons use Kutch and Saurashtra as way points after their long flight over the Arabian Sea,” said R Suresh Kumar, a senior researcher at Wildlife Institute of India (WII) who initiated the project in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-emerging-as-gateway-for-amur-falcons-wii/articleshow/75636701.cms||Maulik Pathak
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Plan to set up isolation centres in Gurugram's DLF-2 shelved after protests||GURUGRAM: Officials of the district administration had to face the ire of DLF-2 residents on Friday as several of them defied lockdown orders and protested against the proposed takeover of two guest houses in the area for setting up Covid quarantine centres. The authorities were finally forced to shelve the plan. Pradeep Bali, a local resident, said a number of senior citizens live in the area. “So it’s not appropriate to set up quarantine centres here. Moreover, as it’s a densely populated area, the chances of residents contracting the virus are more,” he said. Local municipal councillor RS Rathee said the district administration had identified two guest houses in the DLF area for setting up quarantine centres for residents returning from abroad recently. “Several of our residents have already raised objections to the plan as there are several senior citizens living in the area. Instead we have suggested that hotels in nearby Sector 29 may be converted into Covid isolation centres,” he said. When contacted, a senior district administration official told TOI, “Our teams tried to explain to residents that these will be human quarantine facilities where people with travel histories will be put up in isolation for some days. But the residents were not convinced and did not agree, after which the plan was put on hold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/plan-to-set-up-isolation-centres-in-dlf-2-shelved-after-protests/articleshow/75635619.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
May 9, 2020||Noida||Noida schools to pay Rs 5 lakh fine if they hike fee this year||NOIDA: District magistrate Suhas LY issued a set of guidelines, primarily on fees, for schools on Thursday night and said flouting any of the norms could lead to a school being fined up to Rs 5 lakh. The DM also urged the schools to follow all rules pertaining to the Uttar Pradesh Self-Financed Fee Regulation Act of 2018. Some of the issues addressed in the guidelines include a directive to not impose fee hikes for the 2020-2021 academic session, not levy transportation charges for the current quarter (April-June 2020), and not ask for quarterly fee but allow parents to pay on a monthly basis. The guidelines also state that names of children cannot be removed from the school rolls for non-payment of fees. The schools should also not stop children from attending online classes that are being organised now should their parents find it difficult to pay the fees. “The guidelines have been issued to clarify the doubts of parents and the schools alike. The orders were issued earlier, but it seems that there was still lack of clarity. So, a consolidated guideline has been issued. Flouting any government rules would lead to a fine of up to Rs 5 lakh for a school,” said Neeraj Pandey, the district inspector of schools (DIOS), Gautam Budh Nagar. The guidelines also say that flouting the rules could mean a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh, a repeat offence could lead to a penalty of Rs 5 lah and if a complaint against a school is received for the third time, the recognition of the institution from a certain board would be revoked. However, parents from Noida have been pressing for a fee waiver for the months of April, May, and June citing financial pressures during the lockdown. “Several parents have lost their jobs or have suffered salary cuts. Those who are in business have also suffered heavy losses. In this situation, the schools should have offered a complete waiver for the fee of April-June,” Yatendra Kasana, the president of All Noida School Parents Association (ANSPA), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/no-fee-hike-this-year-no-fee-for-transport-in-apr-jun-dm/articleshow/75635645.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||5,000 migrants reach MP by Shramik special trains||BHOPAL: Around 5000 migrant labourers arrived in Madhya Pradesh from different parts of the country through Shramik trains on Friday. These trains were terminated at Obaidullahganj, Ratlam, Vidisha and Chhatarpur. Around 1200 labourers of Madhya Pradesh reached Ratlam by Shramik Express. They are from other districts including Barwani, Dhar, Khandwa and Indore. The train reached Ratlam at 7 am on Friday. After deboarding, the labourers were completely screened and given masks, sanitizers, food packets. Thereafter, they were sent by buses to their respective districts. A train from Kerala reached Vidisha on Friday morning, carrying 1200 passengers belonging to 32 districts of Madhya Pradesh. They were also screened at the station and then carried to different parts of the state in buses. The first bus left for Sheopur; passengers said that they were not charged for train travel. Vidisha collector Pankaj Jain informed that three trains arrived at Vidisha station on Friday. “The first train arrived from Kerala. The second train from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra and third train from Hyderabad ,” said Jain. Each train carried 1200 passengers. At Chhatarpur, Shramik Express arrived from New Delhi via Agra- Jhansi, carrying 1100 labourers. Over 1223 migrant labourers from Aurangabad reached Obaidullahganj in the morning. Migrants belonging to 24 districts of state were later sent to their home districts by buses. Five Shramik Express trains are scheduled to halt at Ratlam from May 8 to May 12. “There are some labourers with coronavirus symptoms who have been quarantined in Chattarpur, others have been sent to their respective districts and villages by buses,” a government spokesperson said. District administration officials were present at Sagar when a special train carrying labourers arrived at the station on Friday morning. So far Sagar, Panna and Tikamgarh have coronavirus patients while Chattarpur and Damoh are still in green zone with all the basic facilities available for the people of two districts. But administration and people in both the districts are apprehensive as they are surrounded by many districts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh with Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5000-migrants-reach-mp-by-shramik-special-trains/articleshow/75636718.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Medical certificate not needed for travel pass: Nashik police commissioner||NASHIK: Migrant workers will no more be required to submit medical certificate while applying for police pass to travel to their home states, said city police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil on Friday. “The migrants will, however, have to furnish all the other required documents, such as the Aadhaar card and no-objection certificate from the nodal officer of the concerned state,” he said. The city police have, meanwhile, updated its web link http://corona.nashikcitypolice.gov.in for the convenience of residents from other states who are stuck in the city due to the lockdown. Police said that 1,250 labourers from other states have already been sent to their native states by two trains. Police said they are getting applications from people for travel permission to their respective states, but many were rejected for failure to submit the required documents. “The applications are rejected for note providing the Aadhaar card or details like the vehicle to be used for travel,” said police. Police said that they it has come to their notice that people from outside Maharashtra were trying to use the link for getting permission, adding that strict action will be taken against such actions. Police have set up a special coronavirus cell, in which two police inspectors, 17 APIs and PSIs and 63 police staff are working around-the-clock for issuing permission to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/med-cert-not-needed-for-travel-pass-police-chief/articleshow/75635629.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dole slips out of tribal families’ fingers||HYDERABAD: The Aadhaar-based biometric system to authenticate the Aadhaar number at banks is proving to be an obstacle for the tribal families of Lingala and Amrabad mandals in Nagarkurnool district, as their fingerprints have faded due to years of toiling in the fields. This poses as a hurdle for the daily wagers and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) workers in the tribal villages who have lost their livelihood in the wake of the lockdown. Even though the state government has transferred the promised Rs 1,500 to their bank accounts, accessing the money is difficult due to the biometric issue. “Many tribal families who reside in these villages have been deprived of their regular income which they used to earn by doing the MNREGA work or by selling the forest produce to the Gramina Co-operative Corporation (GCC). After the government deposited the money in our accounts, we were hopeful that with some cash in hand, the tribal families will be able to meet their daily needs when they are unable to earn, but it has all gone to vain,” said Chigurla Mallikarjun, sarpanch and primary contact of the Chenchus in Lingala and Amrabad mandals. “Despite trying several times, the biometric system is not identifying the fingerprints of the tribals. There are at least 60 families who are facing this problem,” said Mallikarjun.  Speaking to TOI, Nimmala Lingamma, a resident of Mallapur penta (hamlet) of Lingala mandal said, “I waited patiently for my turn at the bank for about an hour but the machine did not detect my finger print. The officials at the gram panchayat office asked me to go to the Meeseva centre and get the biometrics updated but the Meeseva centres are closed due to the lockdown.” Nimmala Bayyana of Medimakala penta said, “I tried at least four-five times, but the machine did not accept. I told the officials that I am a genuine account holder and I am in dire need of the aid but they told me that it is not possible to withdraw money if the machine does not detect my fingerprint.” When contacted, Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDA) project officer Akhilesh Reddy said, “The amount has been deposited in their accounts. But some of them are facing problems to withdraw the amount because their Aadhaar biometrics have not been updated. Since, they work in soil and mud, their fingerprints tend to fade so it is necessary that the fingerprints are regularly updated.” The state government had resolved to spend Rs 1,314 crore to provide Rs 1,500 each to families of all the 87.5 lakh white ration cardholders for purchase of groceries. However, despite the money being transferred into the accounts, many who do not have bank accounts or those who have not updated their biometrics before the lockdown seem to be scrambling to make ends meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dole-slips-out-of-tribal-families-fingers/articleshow/75636729.cms||Moulika.KV
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Cleric asks government to allow meat sale in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, chief of the Islamic Centre of India and Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, on Friday asked the state government to allow sale of meat under essential items during the lockdown. He said India is the biggest exporter of meat and its daily sale is the source of income for a large population. The cleric said meat sale under hygienic norms and government mandated protocols will give boost to economy too. “Meat trade should be added to the list of essential items since it’s part of the diet of a very large population in the state like other items,” the cleric said. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath should allow the safe sale and purchase of meat under lockdown protocols. Thousands of people depend on the daily sale of meat for their livelihood and they are facing everyday problems because of the same,” he added. The cleric said that meat traders should maintain hygiene and sanitation and follow social distancing guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cleric-asks-govt-to-allow-meat-sale/articleshow/75637362.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Viral video: Delhi cop identified, suspended||NEW DELHI: A day after a video showing a group of men and a policeman hitting a youth went viral, the accused cop has been suspended from duty. The incident occurred in southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur. “My brother is not Covid-positive, but mentally challenged. He was accused of being a corona patient and beaten mercilessly. The passersby kept recording videos instead of saving him,” said the victim’s sister. The family also lodged a complaint at Sagarpur police station. The man, who is in his 20s, was chased and beaten by constable Kamlesh for allegedly hugging people on the road. The youth had stepped out of his house without the knowledge of his family to go to his sister’s house a short distance away. The youth’s sister claimed he wished a few people from his community during Iftaar. The volunteers who were given charge of enforcing the lockdown saw the youth and chased after him. Seeing them carrying sticks, the youth started running. The pursuers then started shouting that the youth was Covid-positive and hit him. Kamlesh later joined them in the attack. In the video, he is seen instigating the group to hit the youth on his back and legs. DCP (Southwest) Devender Arya said that a case of assault and criminal intimidation has been registered and the other attackers are being tracked. A probe will be initiated to find out if Kamlesh’s seniors were aware of the fact that he had armed the local youths to help him enforce the lockdown. Watch Lockdown: Videos of alleged ‘excessive force’ by Delhi police go viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/viral-video-cop-identified-suspended/articleshow/75635674.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Admin rejects schools’ plea to operate with 33% staff||Nashik: The district administration has turned down the request of English Medium Schools’ Association to operate the educational institutions with 33% teaching and non-teaching staff.District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “The government orders that came on May 3 specifically said that all schools and colleges are supposed to remain shut till May 17. Hence, the question of permitting schools to start operating does not arise at all,” he said.The collector said the orders though do not specify the staff coming to school, so he will have to look into the matter.Shrikant Shukla, a member of the association, said “We had approached the district collector on Tuesday about calling one-third of our staff to school including teachers and administrative staff members. He said that he will have to seek permission from the government about working with minimal staff and no students in the schools.”Shukla said that it is difficult for the schools to coordinate with their staff, the students and their parents while working from home.“The schools has been striving hard to maintain a proper teaching-learning process during the lockdown. We are conducting online classes and making sure that the students do not miss out on their lessons,” he said.If the schools are permitted to call the teachers to the school, there will be quality control in teaching methods and an uninterrupted teaching process. Shukla said that the teachers can sit in different classrooms and conduct individual classes from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-rejects-schools-plea-to-operate-with-33-staff/articleshow/75635667.cms||pragya jain
May 9, 2020||Nashik||MUHS defers all exams until further notice||Nashik: The city-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has, for the second time, deferred the examinations scheduled for June. The vice-chancellor has established an examination committee to decide the conduct of examinations this year based on the model of the state committee for examinations. “Our committee is headed by our pro-vice chancellor Moran Khamgaonkar and the committee will take the decisions about the examinations after consulting with the principals of all the colleges affiliated with the university and their administration, MARD, etc.,” Vice-chancellor of MUHS Deelip Mhaisekar told TOI. The university had first deferred its examinations scheduled from May 12 to June 15. They had also declared a timetable for the same. But, after looking at the current scenario, they decided not to conduct any examinations for a specific period. Ajit Pathak, controller of examinations, MUHS, said “All the examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses across the streams are postponed and will be conducted after June 15. We will declare the new schedule of examinations well in time so that the students get sufficient time to study.” To ensure that the students are not misguided, the university has asked them not to believe in any fake news or rumours and wait for the university to release further instructions. “We urge all the students to believe only in circulars put up on the university website. They should also note that we will consult all the stakeholders before taking any decision. The students should not panic. There will be enough time for them to study,” Pathak added. The decision stands valid for the students of all the streams like Homeopath, Ayurveda, Allopath, Unani, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-defers-all-exams-until-further-notice/articleshow/75635654.cms||pragya jain
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Thousands from West Bengal stranded in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The wait to return home might finally come to an end for the thousands of migrant workers from West Bengal, stranded across Telangana. On Friday, the Mamata Banerjee-government announced that special trains will be arranged to ferry home migrant labourers, patients, students and stranded tourists. Of them, one will leave from Hyderabad on May 9 and reach Malda the day after, the government said. The news is certain to bring cheer among workers waiting anxiously — their bags packed, train passes in hand. Mostly employed in Hyderabad’s rapidly growing construction sector, the workers come in droves, every year, from various districts of Bengal — Malda, Murshidabad, Nadia, Midnapore, 24 Parganas and Bankura. Earlier on Friday, TOI met many of them, desperate to return home. “It’s been two days since I got myself enrolled for a train pass, but there’s still no news about a train,” said 26-year-old Shantanu Biswas, living at a makeshift shelter in Begumpet’s MS Maqtha area. “There are 25 others from my village in Nadia living here. We have very little money left on us. We just want to go home now,” a visibly distraught Biswas said. The young man is among the 300 workers from West Bengal employed at a construction site in Irrum Manzil, in the heart of Hyderabad city. “I heard some workers from Bihar, employed at a construction site nearby, boarded the train recently. When will we go?” he asked. As did Chandan Mandal, who TOI met sitting outside the Gopalapuram police station, not too far from the Secunderabad railway station. Pulling out his wallet he showed the last Rs 2,000 note he’s left with. “If I spend this, I will have nothing. I hope I can get home before that,” the worker from North 24 Parganas said. Mandal has been surviving on food distributed by NGOs in the area. The desire to reunite with their families is so strong among the workers that they are also looking at other means, in case they cannot board a train. “If the police grant us permission, we will pool in whatever resources we have and hire a taxi home,” said Abdul Raheeq, speaking for the hundreds of labourers living in camps along Hyderabad’s swank IT corridor. The desperation in the 31-year-old’s voice, who came to the city from Malda along with 50 others about six months ago, was hard to miss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thousands-from-bengal-stranded-in-t/articleshow/75636726.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana has sent 20,000 migrants home||HYDERABAD: With four more trains running from the state in the early hours of Friday to Bihar and Jharkhand, carrying around 4,000 migrant workers from Ghatkesar and Lingampalli, around 20,000 migrant workers have been transported from the state through Shramik special trains till now. “On May 7 alone, 12,803 stranded migrant workers reached their destination locations across Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Maharashtra from the state. Over 2,000 migrant workers travelling to Rajasthan and Bhopal reached safely on Friday” informed a South Central Railway (SCR) official. Among the four trains running from the state on Friday, two trains started from Ghatkesar to Chapra in Bihar and Katia in Uttarakhand; the other two trains started from Lingampalli towards Bhagalpur in Bihar and Dhanbad in Jharkhand. “We started running Shramik special trains from May 1 following directions by the state government to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different locations due to the lockdown,” he added. SCR informed that these Shramik special trains running from the state have been paid for by the state government. Provision of facilities ranging from thermal screening, food, and water before the commencement of journey is also being taken care of by the state. Senior railway officials said that workers from Telangana stranded in the states the trains are travelling to can make use of the trains on the return journey, if the state allows. “Being specially contracted services, most trains have returned empty, but if both the states are on-board, we can bring people on the return journey of the trains as well,” informed officials. They added that on Friday, one train brought back 225 workers from Bihar to Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-has-sent-20k-migrants-home/articleshow/75636738.cms||Arya Sharan
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav slams government on labour laws||LUCKNOW: Describing the state government’s decision to suspend the labour laws for three years as a blatant attempt to please the capitalists and industrialists close to the BJP government and RSS, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said such steps will lead to exploitation of the poor labourers and will result in the price rise. The state government had cleared a proposal in the Cabinet meeting earlier this week wherein it had agreed in principal to bring about an ordinance to suspend the labour laws for three years.The government has described the move as an attempt to boost the MSME sector. “The government decision to suspended labour laws has led to widespread resentment among the poor who fear rampant exploitation at the workplace,” the former UP CM said claiming that the BJP government has failed to safeguard interests of the poor labourers and the government should step down. “The government has increased the toll tax on Agra-Lucknow Expressway, Noida Authority has increased the water tax by 7.5 per cent, the centre has imposed a cess on petroleum and our state government has increased VAT on petrol and diesel. This is blatant exploitation of the people,” Akhilesh said. The SP national president said the government is also leaving nothing to chance to exploit the state employees as well. “The state employees are responding to the call of duty despite the virus scare, but Jal Nigam employees have not been given their salaries for three months, for the next 18 months the government employees will not get any dearness allowance either and on top of it the government is taking donations from them for the CM Relief Fund which is shocking,” Akhilesh said in a statement on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-slams-govt-on-labour-laws/articleshow/75637372.cms||Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui
May 9, 2020||Goa||Virus hit not only economy but fight for Goa’s lifeline too||Keri: The outbreak of Covid-19 not only affected our economy, but also slowed down the ongoing process of planning Goa’s strategies against Maharashtra and Karnataka petitions. On August 14, 2018, the Mhadei water disputes tribunal gave the final award on the allocation of water of the Mhadei and it’s tributaries to Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. However, three states have filed petitions for the enhancement of the water share as well as their grievances. In the special leave petition, Goa has prayed to pass an injunction order against Karnataka from proceeding with further construction at the Kalsa nullah near Kankumbi. It also seeks an injunction against the neighbouring state from diverting water from the Mhadei basin to Malprabha basin. This petition has been listed for hearing on July 15, 2020, by the Supreme Court. However, presently the Goa government has not conducted any meetings to discuss and plan strategies for restraining Maharashtra and Karnataka from their ongoing projects. The contempt petition filed by Goa is in the Supreme Court’s list of matters for May 12. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI, “We will conduct meetings to plan our strategies as early as possible. Presently, on account of the outbreak of Covid-19, we have not visited Delhi to discuss the matter with our counsels.” Chief engineer Shrikant Patil said, “We will conduct the meeting and make our best efforts to protect the interest of our state. We have appointed a team of well-versed counsels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-hit-not-only-economy-but-fight-for-goas-lifeline-too/articleshow/75637389.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple kills self by consuming poison||Hyderabad: A couple from Khanpur village killed themselves by consuming poison on Thursday evening in Narnoor, Adilabad. Soyan Sithabai (20) and E Ganesh (22) were engaged. However, their wedding was delayed due to the lockdown. This upset the couple, which could be the reason they consumed poison, their family members told police. “Sithabai called her brother after they had taken the drastic step. He rushed to the spot but by the time they were shifted to hospital, they had passed away,” said police officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-kills-self-by-consuming-poison/articleshow/75636742.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Never suspended Sambal scheme: Kamal Nath to Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Friday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying that Sambal scheme did not need a relaunch as it was never suspended. “In this hour of Covid crisis, we are all with people and trying everything possible for the betterment of our citizens,” Nath wrote to Chouhan. “Recently, you have spoken about the relaunch of Sambal-Naya Savera Yojana. But, the scheme was never stopped. During Congress government’s tenure, it was made more effective and the working class benefitted,” Nath said in the letter. “In December 2018, when Congress formed government in the state, then it was brought to my knowledge that a large number of affluent persons were benefitted under the scheme. I was saddened to realise how a government could deceive people standing in the last rung of society,” the letter said. Nath said that the discrepancies were removed and the scheme was continued as Naya Savera Yojana. “Names of those who were not eligible for the scheme were removed, these were persons, who were added by the previous government,” he said. “BJP leader Mahendra Singh Sisodia has brought the matter of corruption in the scheme to your knowledge also,” Nath said in the letter. “Our Prime Minister has given the slogan of Jaan Bhi aur Jahan Bhi, which means that we have to pay attention to citizens’ health as well as their livelihood. Today, it is necessary to consider and think about the livelihood of farmers and the working class,” the former chief minister wrote. “I have told you before that our workers have been without work for more than one-and-half months and their livelihood is in crisis. Hence, they should be paid Rs7,500 per month as relief,” Nath added. The former chief minister said that he hoped that instead of publicity on Sambal Yojana, the government should start paying relief money to registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/never-suspended-sambal-scheme-nath-to-shivraj/articleshow/75636741.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: 14 more contacts of two super spreaders test positive||DAVANAGERE: The coronavirus count touched 61 in Davanagere with 14 more testing positive for the virus on Friday. Five of them are children between 3 and 13 years. Ten of Friday's cases were contacts of P- 553, a 35-year-old nurse attached to Bhashanagar PHC in Davanagere, four others were contacts of P-556, a 69-year-old man from Jalinagar, who recently died in a Covid hospital here. Fifty-five are under treatment in the Covid-19 ward of Davanagere district hospital, said a senior health officer. But for the two initial cases reported in early April which had a travel history, the remaining 59 are all contacts of either P- 553 and P-556. 6TH CONTAINMENT ZONE FORMED: Following the confirmation of P 695, a 53-year-old woman from SPS Nagar, on Thursday, SPS Nagar area has been demarcated as the sixth containment zone in Davanagere from Thursday evening. A health check up followed by throat swab collection of the suspected people from all these six containment zones in under way, said DC Mahantesh Bilagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/14-more-contacts-of-2-super-spreaders-test-ve/articleshow/75632861.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdowns leave Bargarh weavers without jobs, money||SAMBALPUR: With markets across the country shut owing to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, the weavers of Bargarh district are finding it difficult to sell their products. Ashis Meher of Jandol village in Bheden block of Bargarh district, who is doing his PhD on weavers from Tamil Nadu’s Central University, said they have fallen on hard times. “Markets are shut everywhere. As a result, the sale of Sambalpuri saris, dress materials and bedsheets woven by the weavers in Odisha has been badly affected,” said Meher, who himself comes from a family of weavers in Bargarh district. He added that while some weavers in Bargarh district work for cooperative societies, others work under a master weaver and still others work independently. The hand-woven saris, dress materials and other items made by these weavers are sold at the outlets of cooperative societies across the country. The master weavers engage others to weave saris while they do the marketing of the material in the open market. Those who work independently themselves market their hand-woven saris, dress materials and other items. But the marketing of these products has been hit as the markets are shut. More than 12,000 families of Bargarh district depend on weaving to earn their livelihood. “Many weavers depend on the open market for the sale of their products. But they have been unable to sell the saris and dress materials owing to the lockdown now,” said Anand Meher, whose family also depends on weaving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdowns-leave-bargarh-weavers-without-jobs-money/articleshow/75635709.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||High-level panel for industries||LUCKNOW: Accepting that banks have not been able to extend benefits of relief policies announced by the government for revival of the economy to the industrial sector, minister of state for MSME Pratap Chandra Sarangi on Friday said that the government was planning to set up a high-level committee to save industrial units from arbitrary policies of banks. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Small Industries and Manufacturers Association (SIMA), the minister said that the committee would comprise government and industry representatives, chartered accountants and other experts. The minister also agreed to set up an independent cell for micro industries among MSMEs, saying that there was a need to pay special attention to this category of industries. Responding to complaints that government departments were not clearing dues, the minister said they had been getting several complaints of delayed payments and to address this, the government was considering setting up of a payment task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-level-panel-for-industries/articleshow/75637380.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, AP students in Punjab want to return||HYDERABAD: Close to 900 students from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are stranded in Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Punjab and many of them are now wanting to return back home. The LPU suspended classes in March following which students were left stranded in the university hostels, PG accommodations and rented apartments. With the Central government allowing return of students to their home states, students from the two states are making distress calls to the respective state governments seeking for a train to return home. “Many students from other states such as Assam, Maharashtra and Odisha have already left the campus. We have been stuck here for the last 50 days. Although the university has assured us to arrange transportation, we are yet to get any communication from the respective governments,” said a student on condition of anonymity. So far, 216 students from Telangana and 637 students from AP have registered with the university’s management system seeking help to go back to their home state. Students say that higher cost of transportation being levied by the university is also a cause of concern for many. “The university is charging approximately Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 per student to take us back to our home state by bus. There are many students who cannot afford it and are rather seeking a common train for Telangana and AP residents so that the cost is lesser,” said a student. Some students also tweeted to the Telangana minister KT Rama Rao and AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy seeking help. The LPU officials said that they are coordinating with the respective state government to send students back home. “We have received consent letter from AP government and will be sending their students in the next few days. We are also talking to Telangana government and expecting a response shortly,” said Namita Kaur, LPU registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-students-in-punjab-want-to-return/articleshow/75636754.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 9, 2020||Faridabad||Pregnant woman among 3 Covid cases in Faridabad||GURUGRAM: Three more people, including a pregnant woman, were tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridabad on Friday, taking the total tally of corona patients to 88 in the district. A 23-year-old receptionist working in an ultrasound centre, where the 55-year-old guard who died of Covid was also working, was tested positive. Four people working at the centre had contracted the infection, of which one had already passed away. The woman lives in NIT-2 in the district. A 20-year-old pregnant woman, whose delivery is scheduled this month, was also tested positive on Friday. This is the fourth case of a pregnant woman in Faridabad contracting the infection. The woman lives in Dabua colony, a containment zone. “The sample of the woman was sent for testing. Her test came positive. She has now been admitted to ESIC Medical College and Hospital,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, Faridabad. The positive cases also include a vegetable vendor in Mujesar mandi. The 35-year-old man lives in Sanjay Colony, Sector 23. The health department along with the district administration is conducting a survey in vegetable markets and adjoining areas to identify people with influenza-like symptoms. A total of 307 samples were sent for testing on Friday. Moreover, 54 patients have been discharged so far in Faridabad. The health department so far has sent 4,866 samples, of which 4,471 have tested negative while reports of 307 samples sent on Friday are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/pregnant-woman-among-3-covid-cases-in-faridabad/articleshow/75635697.cms||Vishakha Chaman
May 9, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC getting enquiries for buses to TN, Gujarat, Rajasthan||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started receiving inquiries from individuals and groups stranded in the district. According to a state transport utility official, most of the enquiries are being made for travelling to states like Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat. "The workers will be charged for round trip at Rs 44 for every kilometre and a maximum of 22 people will be allowed to travel in every bus," the official said. "Currently, most of the enquiries that we are receiving are from Nashik city. The problem is that Nashik falls under the red zone category and as per norms, people from such areas are not allowed to travel. There are also enquiries from large number of people who are staying outside Nashik city and wish to travel to the destinations," he added. A number of people working in Surat and Bharuch also want to travel back to Gujarat as the government there has offered relaxation in lockdown rules. "Most of them are employees of companies and industries in Gujarat. As things are taking shape in Gujarat they want to go back to work. There are also requests from people for travelling to states like Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, among others," the official said. "However, nobody will be allowed to travel without submitting a health certificate. The fare will have to be collectively paid to the MSRTC along with the travelling pass. The buses will be dispatched only after the completion of the formalities. The drivers of these buses will also be given all the necessary precautionary measures to ensure they do not get infected," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-getting-enquiries-for-buses-to-tn-guj-rajasthan/articleshow/75635688.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Telangana, AP students in Punjab want to return||HYDERABAD: Close to 900 students from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are stranded in Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Punjab and many of them are now wanting to return back home. The LPU suspended classes in March following which students were left stranded in the university hostels, PG accommodations and rented apartments. With the Central government allowing return of students to their home states, students from the two states are making distress calls to the respective state governments seeking for a train to return home. “Many students from other states such as Assam, Maharashtra and Odisha have already left the campus. We have been stuck here for the last 50 days. Although the university has assured us to arrange transportation, we are yet to get any communication from the respective governments,” said a student on condition of anonymity. So far, 216 students from Telangana and 637 students from AP have registered with the university’s management system seeking help to go back to their home state. Students say that higher cost of transportation being levied by the university is also a cause of concern for many. “The university is charging approximately Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 per student to take us back to our home state by bus. There are many students who cannot afford it and are rather seeking a common train for Telangana and AP residents so that the cost is lesser,” said a student. Some students also tweeted to the Telangana minister KT Rama Rao and AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy seeking help. The LPU officials said that they are coordinating with the respective state government to send students back home. “We have received consent letter from AP government and will be sending their students in the next few days. We are also talking to Telangana government and expecting a response shortly,” said Namita Kaur, LPU registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/t-ap-students-in-punjab-want-to-return/articleshow/75639877.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Goods worth Rs 35 lakh gutted in Satpur factory||NASHIK: A fire broke out in a pharmaceutical packaging factory in the Satpur industrial area on Thursday night. While there were no casualties, goods and articles, collectively amounting to over Rs 35 lakh, was gutted in the fire. The fire broke out at the industrial unit around 7.30pm on Thursday. Chief fire officer Sanjay Bairagi said, “The exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained, though security guards were stationed at the unit. Even the owner of the packaging factory could not tell what led to the fire.” Mostly boxes and wooden raw material were stored at the industrial unit. The company was involved in the production of boxes. The fire turned all the articles in the factory into ashes in an hour. Nonetheless, fire fighters on five tenders—three from the fire brigade head office, one from Satpur and one more from a nearby industry—were pressed into service to douse the flames. Bairagi said that it took the fire-fighters close to an hour to douse the flames and bring the situation under control. Assistant commissioner of police Mangalsingh Suryawanshi, senior inspector at Satpur police station Rakesh Hande and other police personnel rushed to the factory to ensure people did not crowd near the accident spot. Fire officials said that there were no workers in the company at the time the fire broke out. The factory was open from 7am to 3 pm. All the workers had left by 3pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goods-worth-rs-35l-gutted-in-satpur-factory/articleshow/75635715.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Why relax norms for cloth stores, asks Cong MLA||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari on Wednesday gave permission for textile shops to open from Thursday, albeit with certain conditions. One of the riders is that trial rooms are to remain closed, while owners and management have been asked to emphasise social distancing between employees, and customers. All malls across the district will remain closed for the remaining duration of the lockdown, the minister added. However, not many are pleased with the minister relaxing norms for textile shops. Many elders and leaders among Muslims have lashed out at Poojari, pointing out that they had called on members of their community to shun frivolous expenses, and shopping during Ramzan. This was part of the community leaders’ outreach programme to ensure that all Muslims cooperated with the government to arrest the spread of Covid-19. Former minister and Congress MLA UT Khader questioned the need for reopening textile shops when the number of Covid-19 cases was spiking in the district. “At a meeting, Poojari informed us that textile shops would not be allowed to open. But this sudden reversal is inexplicable,” Khader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/why-relax-norms-for-cloth-stores-asks-cong-mla/articleshow/75632917.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Cuttack||SC order gives breather to people stuck outside state||BHUBANESWAR: The Supreme Court decision to stay the Orissa high court order on mandatory testing of migrants before they are allowed to board a train or bus to Odisha has come as a huge relief to those who have been waiting for days to return home. Lakhs of people from Odisha are stranded in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Surat and many towns of Kerala. While some are lucky to have got accommodation and food at their work sites, many are spending days and nights on pavements, railway platforms and bus stops. The migrants have been preparing for their return ever since the state government introduced the online registration system. Around 35,000 of them working in Surat had come in buses and as many as 13 trains. But as Covid-19 cases began to swell in Ganjam, the high court put a condition on their return. Ganesh Lohar of Turekela block in Balangir district, who has been working in a construction site at Chembur in Mumbai since January, said he was happy to learn that the Supreme Court had intervened and they could return without getting tested. “I had managed to obtain a certificate from a local doctor that I was fit to travel and go back home. I also got myself registered in the government portal but the HC order had come as a surprise,” Lohar said. He said his friends in Balangir told him that the high court said only migrants, who test negative for coronavirus, should be allowed to return. “We had felt very dejected. But, hopefully, we can now return in a day or two,” said Lohar, a mason. Many migrants had to plead with the police and local doctors to give them certificates so that they can gravel. “The police would ask us to go to the doctor and doctor would send us back to the police. But now that ordeal will be over,” hoped Birju Podh, who works in a construction site in Chennai. Amulya Mallick of Remuna in Balasore, whose job is to install sanitary items, said his work is over and he wants to return. “There is no issue of accommodation, but if I continue to stay here all that I have earned so far will get exhausted,” said Mallick, who works in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/sc-order-gives-breather-to-people-stuck-outside-state/articleshow/75642984.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SC order gives breather to people stuck outside state||BHUBANESWAR: The Supreme Court decision to stay the Orissa high court order on mandatory testing of migrants before they are allowed to board a train or bus to Odisha has come as a huge relief to those who have been waiting for days to return home. Lakhs of people from Odisha are stranded in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Surat and many towns of Kerala. While some are lucky to have got accommodation and food at their work sites, many are spending days and nights on pavements, railway platforms and bus stops. The migrants have been preparing for their return ever since the state government introduced the online registration system. Around 35,000 of them working in Surat had come in buses and as many as 13 trains. But as Covid-19 cases began to swell in Ganjam, the high court put a condition on their return. Ganesh Lohar of Turekela block in Balangir district, who has been working in a construction site at Chembur in Mumbai since January, said he was happy to learn that the Supreme Court had intervened and they could return without getting tested. “I had managed to obtain a certificate from a local doctor that I was fit to travel and go back home. I also got myself registered in the government portal but the HC order had come as a surprise,” Lohar said. He said his friends in Balangir told him that the high court said only migrants, who test negative for coronavirus, should be allowed to return. “We had felt very dejected. But, hopefully, we can now return in a day or two,” said Lohar, a mason. Many migrants had to plead with the police and local doctors to give them certificates so that they can gravel. “The police would ask us to go to the doctor and doctor would send us back to the police. But now that ordeal will be over,” hoped Birju Podh, who works in a construction site in Chennai. Amulya Mallick of Remuna in Balasore, whose job is to install sanitary items, said his work is over and he wants to return. “There is no issue of accommodation, but if I continue to stay here all that I have earned so far will get exhausted,” said Mallick, who works in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sc-order-gives-breather-to-people-stuck-outside-state/articleshow/75635730.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana BJP chief calls KCR a ‘quarantine CM’||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay on Friday termed K Chandrasekhar Rao a “quarantine chief minister”. He said KCR appears before the public once in a blue moon. Addressing the media, Sanjay said KCR is under the illusion that he is the only CM who can get things done despite Centre’s support to each state in all possible means. “He thinks he is not responsible to the public. He does not have any respect for opposition parties. He appears once in a while to please public like a quarantine CM,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bjp-chief-calls-kcr-a-quarantine-cm/articleshow/75636757.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Five RMC staffer get notice for not reporting on Covid duty||Rajkot: Five officials of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) were served with show cause notices for not reporting on Covid duty. These include, drainage branch junior clerk Haresh Rathod; Nilratna Pandya, senior clerk with tax collection branch; Dhaval Rana, assistant engineer (civil) with traffic and transport cell; Ashwin Shah, junior clerk with waste management branch; and Alepkhan Malek, junior clerk with waste management branch. “The erring officials were supposed to report on duty at check posts at Aji Dam Chowkadi, Saat Hanuman and Kuvadava Road, but they did not. Hence they have been served with the notices,” said a senior RMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-rmc-staffer-get-notice-for-not-reporting-on-covid-duty/articleshow/75767390.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC junks surrendering of PG medical diploma seats||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court found fault with the Medical Council of India, the state government and Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) or allowing the medical colleges in the state to completely dismantle the system of in-service government doctors upgrading their skills through acquiring PG diplomas in their respective fields. The central and state authorities have allowed the medical colleges to surrender their PG diploma seats and get an equal number of PG medicine seats in their place. This will adversely affect the in-service MBBS doctors because the weightage given to their rural service will become useless because there are no PG diploma seats left in the state for them to secure and pursue higher studies on account of the strange exchange policy adopted and followed by the center and state. Six medical colleges in Telangana, both government and private colleges, surrendered as many as 18 PG diploma seats to gain an equal number of PG medicine seats in their place. For private medical colleges, they fetch crores of rupees. The bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud suspended this surrendering seats exercise for the year 2020-21 and directed the authorities to continue with the old practice of giving weightage to in-service candidates. The bench gave this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by one such in-service doctor P Bhavana whose aspiration to become a PG diploma holder in Medical Radio-Diagnosis remained shattered on account of the decision of the union health ministry, the medical council of India and the facilitator roles played by the state and its health varsity. The bench said that this decision would accord undue help to the private medical colleges and put the government doctors who were rendering rural service in a disadvantageous position. This is no way to treat our own government doctors who are waging a relentless battle against Covid-19, the bench said. It gave notices to the state, center and the health university apart from impleading the principals of Warangal Kakatiya medical college, Pratima medical College, Karimnagar, Kamineni medical college, MNR medical college and Gandhi medical college in Secunderabad as respondents to the case. All of them were asked to file their counters by June 1.HYDERABAD:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-surrendering-of-pg-medical-diploma-seats/articleshow/75636798.cms||M Sagar Kumar
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Global brands eye UP as biz destination||LUCKNOW: Aggressively wooing foreign investors and to exploit the mood of global brands deserting China, the state government on Friday succeeded in attracting the IT giant HP for setting up a research and development centre here. Besides, Denmark has offered a technology tie-up with the state to strengthen its MSME sector. Giving this information, minister for MSME, textile promotion, exports and NRI Sidharth Nath Singh, who held a webinar with representatives of the European Business Council on Friday, told TOI that it was the most successful event as major brands, including Coca Cola, Dow Chemical International Pvt Ltd, IBM India, Microsoft Corporation, Panasonic India, Pepsico and RedBul, participated in it. This is the minister’s fourth interaction with representatives of foreign companies as he has already held video-conferences with industrialists of the US, South Korea and Japan. At Friday’s webinar the minister, who was assisted by principal secretary, MSME and exports, Navneet Sehgal, held parleys with ambassador of Denmark in India Freddy Seven and 74 representatives of the European Business Group. Ambassadors of Italy, Belgium, Denmark and Lativa also attended the webinar. Exuding confidence, Singh said that the HP, a global brand in computer and information technology services, has committed to start a research and development facility for 3D printing in the state. Besides, ambassador of Denmark has promised to transfer technology to strengthen the state's MSME sector. Ajay Khanna, who represented Domino’s, assured the minister of expanding its network in the state. The minister said that the third major development of the interaction was that the European Union wanted a special desk as has been offered to Japan and South Korea in the state. “I immediately told them that the state would be pleased to set up an exclusive desk for them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/global-brands-eye-up-as-biz-destination/articleshow/75637432.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Crocodile strays out of river, rescued||Hyderabad: A mugger crocodile that strayed out of river Manjeera into agriculture fields at Indur village of Raikode mandal was rescued by the forest department and released into the river again on Friday. The locals were the first to notice it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crocodile-strays-out-of-river-rescued/articleshow/75636776.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||‘We set off with some rotis and a dabba of chutney, sat down on tracks as our legs ached, some dozed off’||BHOPAL: They had set off, the 20 of them, with a bundle of rotis and a small dabba of chutney. The food lay scattered amid the remains of the 16 migrants, mowed down by a goods train as they slept on the tracks, on Friday morning. A survivor of the horror narrated how they decided to take a break as their bones were aching after walking for 35km along the railway lines. They squatted on the tracks near Karmad station and munched their spartan fare. Read the whole story on TOI+ ‘I screamed at my friends to wake up but train was louder’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seven-of-those-killed-are-from-same-family/articleshow/75636786.cms||P Naveen
May 9, 2020||Goa||MD alleges Rs 13-14cr scam in Goa Dairy||Ponda: Officiating managing director of Goa State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union— a cooperative unit, popularly known as Goa Dairy, Anil Phadte has alleged a scam of Rs 13-14 crore in the functioning of the dairy since 2012. He has blamed two members on the board of directors for the alleged irregularities which he claimed happened in connivance with government officials. Besides, Phadte alleged the administrators appointed by the government failed to act to correct the irregularities. Phadte was speaking to reporters on Thursday on the backdrop of a complaint lodged by Ramesh Naik, chairman of the Curtorim Milk Society. Naik has filed a complaint with the chief minister and the Registrar of Cooperative Societies alleging a scam in the procurement of buffalo milk and optigen urea at higher rate and using fake and sub-standard ingredients in cattle feed production. Phadte said he has made inquiries and has sent the material in support of the complaint to the Registrar of Cooperative Societies for action. Present administrator Arvind Khuntkar said he has stopped all earlier systems and has been procuring all the material by inviting tenders and quotations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/md-alleges-rs-13-14cr-scam-in-goa-dairy/articleshow/75637440.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||64 who arrived from Singapore in quarantine||GURUGRAM: Sixty four people who flew from Singapore to Delhi on Friday were sent to various quarantine centres in the city. Of them, 16 have been sent to Lemon Tree, three are staying in Sky City Western Hotel, four in an Oyo room while 41 people are in community centres located in Shukhrali and Dundahera. All 64 people have been screened at IGI airport before being shifted to quarantine facilities. However, no one has shown any symptoms of the disease so far, according to the district administration. As per the WHO guidelines, these people will have to undergo quarantine at least for a period of 14 days. “We have quarantined the people who arrived at IGI on Friday in different locations across the city. The flight was from Singapore. Now, they are all in quarantine facilities, some of which are paid while other centres are offering facilities for free,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. At present, there are five quarantine centres in Gurugram, including a 300-bed facility at SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera, a 100-bed facility in SCERT hostel, a 400-bed quarantine centre at government PG College, a 100-bed facility in Pataudi and a 20-bed unit at the ESIC dispensary. Apart from the government quarantine centres, nine hotel chains, including Lemon Tree, Radisson Hotels and Intercontinental Hotels Group (IHG), are collectively offering 392 rooms as paid quarantine facilities in Gurugram. Their room tariffs have been capped at Rs 3,600. Gurugram is likely to receive more people in coming days. Additional chief secretary and GMDA chief VS Kundu said these people are from various districts in Haryana. “We have made arrangements for everyone here. We are working in coordination with the central government. We received the first batch of people on Friday. Travel arrangements will be made by other states in case we receive people from any other locations of the country. Also, if we get more people from a particular district in Haryana, we will ensure that those people will be moved to their own district,” said Kundu. Spike in Covid cases again in the city Eight more people were tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Friday, raising the tally to 125 in the district. During the past eight days, Gurugram recorded 49 new Covid-19 cases. Of the eight fresh cases, one patient is from M3M Woodshire in Sector 107, one from Khandsa mandi, three from Char Marla, one from DLF-1 while two cases are from Mohit Hospital. The new cases include two health workers, a social worker who was involved in distribution of free food in the city, a vegetable seller in Khandsa mandi and a person who had bought vegetable from him, a health official told TOI. “We are taking all required measures to provide treatment to these patients. Our teams are scanning all market areas and densely populated parts of Gurugram such as Dundahera, Sarhul and Kapashera,” said JS Puniya, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The number of cases is likely to increase in coming days, the official said. The health department has collected 37 samples from a building in Sarhaul where a patient was tested positive on Thursday. Of the 125 cases reported in the city, 75 are active while 51 patients have been discharged. The health official said 7,820 samples have been sent for testing so far. Of the 125 cases reported in the city, 75 are active while 51 patients have been discharged after recovery. The health official said 7,820 samples have been sent for testing so far. The department is still awaiting results of more than 500 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/64-who-arrived-from-singapore-in-quarantine/articleshow/75635753.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Swami Prasad Maurya counters SP, Congress charges||LUCKNOW: UP labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya on Friday countered charges by Congress and Samajwadi Party accusing BJP of being anti-labour. Maurya said the two parties were the biggest opponents of labour and daily wagers. Maurya’s attack came in the backdrop of SP and Congress accusing the state government of bringing an ordinance that could affect labourers by exempting businesses from key labour laws for the next three years. “The Opposition is the biggest opponent of labourers. The state government has decided to bring in labourers from other states and provide them employment in the state itself,” he said, adding that the state government would provide employment to the labourers according to their skills. This, he said, would allow more and more migrant labourers to get employment, he said. Maurya said the Opposition was opposing migrant labourers who were to be provided jobs in industrial units which were closed because of the lockdown. He said the ordinance had ensured due period for which the labourers would be provided employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maurya-counters-sp-congress-charges/articleshow/75637437.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Amid curses, doubts, fears, life staggers on at Mominpura||Nagpur: “They cursed that our family will perish of coronavirus. Abuses were hurled at two medical officers of NMC — both Muslims — whom the crowd taunted for ‘betraying the community’,” says the SRPF jawan posted at the entrance of Mominpura, a predominantly Muslim locality, now under containment.The jawan was recalling one of operations to move residents into institutional quarantine in the last couple of days. “We responded, ‘Ji bhar ke gaali do par ilaj bhee karalo (curse to your heart’s content but also get treated)’,” the jawan said.In last two days, Mominpura has surpassed other pockets of the city in Covid-19 cases, with 119 positive patients reported from here.After Satranjipura, as TOI visited another containment zone of Mominpura, anger was evident among the people. As the struggle for subsistence gets grimmer for many, residents alleged the community is being ostracized. They questioned the logic behind mass quarantine if a single case of Covid was found in their area, asking why should it not happen in other parts of the city too. The acrimony worsened after the district administration came out with a theory linking the death of a youth at Parvati Nagar, near Ajni, to his frequent visits to Mominpura for pigeon races (kabutarbazi).“If they say the deceased used to frequent our locality, then it shows that the curfew was not effective. If we cannot go out of here, how could an outsider make frequent visits, enough to get infected,” asked N Shaikh, a commercial artist. “Ask those who came here, why are they blaming us,” said an angry Izar Ahmed.With all other entries closed, Mominpura can now be accessed only from the Golibar Chowk side. As seen in Satranjipura also, areas less than 300 meters away from Mominpura are open. The residents of Mominpura can move out of the barricades with permission of the cops to buy essentials.Mohammed Vakil, who runs a business of electronic items, said, “Why should it not happen elsewhere? The sweet shop owner close by also tested positive, but only his family was taken away. Here, the entire lane is taken away.”The medical officers, who confirmed having faced hurdles, clarified that there is no religious bias but people at Mominpura were not cooperating. “Over 300 people from Parvati Nagar too have been quarantined after the death of a youth there. But in Parvati Nagar, the people did not resist,” said the officer.“Things are not good indeed, we live under shadow of fear. You don’t know when the police or NMC will come and take you away to the quarantine centre. They don’t even give an intimation, buses just come and take us away. This has left the children scared,” says Afzal Khan, an auto driver.For Khan, making two ends meet is also a huge struggle these days. “The savings on which we could manage so far are getting exhausted. I am left with just Rs200. Breaking fast at iftar depends on the kindness of neighbours, only sometimes we buy a small thing or so,” says Khan.Abdul Rashid, standing with three others in the lane where a death had taken place, said, “Almost the entire pocket has been emptied. There are no means of livelihood. Why should all suffer because of a single case?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-curses-doubts-fears-life-staggers-on-at-mominpura/articleshow/75634482.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Bhatia is AIIMS Bibinagar director||Hyderabad: Dr Vikas Bhatia took over as first full-time director of AIIMS at Bibinagar. Earlier, Prof Bhatia worked as dean of AIIMS in Bhubaneswar (Odisha) for eight years. He also headed the community medicine department at the institute. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-bhatia-is-aiims-bibinagar-director/articleshow/75636791.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Minister under attack for ‘ignorance’||BHUBANESWAR: Law minister Pratap Jena has drawn flak from the opposition leaders over his media statement that his department is yet to receive a copy of the Orissa high court order on mandatory testing of the migrant workers before coming to the state even as the state government has already cancelled permission to four Shramik special trains scheduled to start their journey from Surat and Panvel on Friday. The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Orissa HC order. “We are yet to get a copy of the HC order. We would take next course of action after getting a copy of the court order,” Jena told reporters. Senior BJP leader and former Union minister Jual Oram was quick to take a potshot at the law minister for his ignorance on the state government’s decision to cancel the Odisha-bound trains from Surat and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/min-under-attack-for-ignorance/articleshow/75635778.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||Three in Chitradurga reinfected after being dicharged in Ahmedabad||Davanagere: The three residents who were confirmed infected with Covid-19 in Chitradurga on Friday had returned to the district from Ahmedabad, where they had previously tested positive for the novel coronavirus, undergone treatment, recovered and had been discharged. Chitradurga deputy commissioner Vinoth Priya R said that on May 5, as many as 15 people had returned to the district from Gujarat, where they had been stuck for nearly two months after having gone there to participate in a religious convention. The 15 Chitradurga residents had travelled by bus along with 18 Tumakuru residents. “We examined the health of the returning residents, and their throat swabs were sent for medical tests on May 6. While three of them have been confirmed infected, the other 12 have tested negative for the novel coronavirus,” Vinoth Priya said. Of the 15 people who returned to Chitradurga on May 5, four had undergone treatment for Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, and had started their homeward journey after receiving a medical certificate that indicated that they were cured. “We verified these certificates, and the four individuals in question were subsequently quarantined at the designated facility in Chitradurga. But, when the results of the tests arrived, we found to our shock, that three of the four patients who had been discharged in Ahmedabad had tested positive,” the DC said. Vinoth Priya said that the throat swabs of more than 20 officials of the district administration, including the assistant commissioner, tahsildar and cops, who inspected and accompanied them from the Chitradurga checkpost, will be sent for medical tests. “They will be quarantined at a local hostel,” Vinoth Priya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/three-in-chitradurga-reinfected-after-being-dicharged-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/75632985.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Dehradun||Key 78-km road on India-China border inaugurated by defence minister, to cut down travel time to Kailash Mansarovar significantly||Pithoragarh: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday inaugurated via video-conferencing the strategically important and much-awaited 78-km-long Tawaghat-Lipulekh Road, popularly known as Kailash Mansarovar Road, that will connect Dharchula to Lipulekh Pass (on the China border) in Pithoragarh district. The key road is expected to provide much-needed leverage to the armed forces in augmenting defence systems near the border. Besides, once thrown open to the public, it will also help cut down travel time significantly for pilgrims taking part in the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. In fact, Singh said at the inauguration that pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar will now be able to complete their journey by road in one week instead of up to three weeks. Later, in a tweet, he congratulated the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for completing the road which is at a height of over 17,000 feet even as the Covid-19 pandemic is raging all around. He also flagged off a convoy of vehicles from Pithoragarh to Gunji via video-conferencing. Vimal Goswami, chief engineer of Hirak Project (BRO), said that the 78-km road from Ghatiyabagar to Lipulekh has been constructed at a cost of Rs 408 crore. "The toughest 17-km stretch between Najang to Bundi took two years to complete due to road cutting work in a very difficult terrain and harsh weather conditions," he added. While inaugurating the road, the defence minister said that apart from its strategic importance, it will also have a religious and economic significance. "Tourism, healthcare and education facilities will also flourish in the area and local villagers will gain from it. With this road, the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra from the Lipulekh side will now be 84% in India and only 16% in China by road. Earlier, the yatra was 80% by road in China and only 20% in India," he said, adding that the travel time will reduce significantly and can be . Goswami added that the landscape of the road is beautiful and unique. "It starts at an altitude of 6,000 feet and after criss-crossing several valleys, meadows, mountains and passing through bridges, the road ends at a height of 17,060 feet," he added. (with inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/key-78-km-road-on-india-china-border-inaugurated-by-defence-minister-to-cut-down-travel-time-to-kailash-mansarovar-significantly/articleshow/75633002.cms||Prem Punetha
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Stop punishments that violate human rights: HC||Nagpur: Censuring the police machinery for publishing pictures of lockdown violators with placards in hand, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court pulled them up for violating human rights and sternly warned them against enforcing such punishments or adopting extra-legal measures.“The HC trusts that police machinery top brass will ensure there are no further violations of human rights while enforcing the lockdown. If a single such incident is noticed, this court expects the police commissioner to hold the senior officer of concerned area accountable,” justice Rohit Deo said.The warning came while hearing a PIL by Sandip Nair, contending that citizens, who allegedly violated the lockdown, including senior citizens and some well-known personalities on morning walk, are subjected to inhuman indignities. The alleged violators were photographed holding placards declaring that they’re an enemy of the nation, society, family and humanity, since they’re breaking lockdown rules. The next day, their photographs were published in prominent newspapers and went viral on social media.Additional government pleader Ketki Joshi denied that the pictures were published by the police and sought time to take further instructions.While issuing notices to respondents, including the state government, justice Deo pointed out that he came across several news reports highlighting the unusual and humiliating punishment meted out by police personnel under the garb of enforcing lockdown. “This court has no reason to suspect the intent. However, the end does not necessarily justify the means. The police personnel, who have indulged in blatant violation of human dignity, are expected to be alive to our society being a civilized society governed by the rule of law.”Requesting the commissioner to sensitize personnel under his command, the judge asked him to ensure that such sordid incidents don’t get repeated. “While extraordinary situations may call for extraordinary measures, those must have the sanction of law. Human dignity and rights can’t be sacrificed at the alter of extraordinary situations nor can the constitutional right to a dignified life be hostage to supposed intentions. The police machinery has sufficient powers under provisions of law to enable strict enforcement of lockdown directives,” justice Deo said.Earlier, the petitioner contended that in an effort to strictly enforce the lockdown to combat the Covid-19 virus, some police personnel are guilty of gross violation of human rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stop-punishments-that-violate-human-rights-hc/articleshow/75634487.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||HC tells Amt cops to deal sternly with lockdown violators||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC) and other authorities to explore implementing Bhilwara pattern in the district to contain the growth of coronavirus cases. It also asked the government to forward AMC’s proposal for 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits to ICMR which was told to complete the formalities at the earliest.The directives came after a suggestion by petitioner Shivaray Kulkarni’s counsel Pankaj Navlani, who pressed for stringent measures to control the growth of deadly virus in Amravati.According to him, if such pro-active measures could be implemented in Bhilwara with positive results, there is no reason why same could not be implemented in Amravati.“While this court would be extremely slow and cautious in treading on the territory and domain of executive policy, it would be appropriate if the suggestion is seriously considered either way,” Justice Rohit Deo said while directing the respondents to file an affidavit in this regard before May 15.Earlier, AMC lawyer Gemini Kasat informed that it had sent a communication to Akola-based deputy director of health for 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits.Navlani pointed out that the police machinery was not enforcing the lockdown with an iron hand. Quoting the collector, he added that city police had been extremely lax in imposing fines and in taking recourse to legally permissible measures. Denying this, government pleader Sumant Deopujari clarified the police were proactively working.“Considering the statement by the Amravati police commissioner, no specific directions are required at this stage. However, this court hopes and trusts the assurance given by him shall be fulfilled in letter and spirit and every lockdown violator shall be sternly dealt with within the four-corners of law,” Justice Deo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-tells-amt-cops-to-deal-sternly-with-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75634494.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, AI to help pin down mask violators in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In what could be a first-of-its-kind experiment, Telangana police are using artificial intelligence (AI) to track those stepping out without wearing face mask, which has been made mandatory by the government. The new system alerts police after analysing live CCTV footage.  “Deep learning technique is being implemented on surveillance across the city in a first-of-its-kind experiment in India,” DGP M Mahendar Reddy said in a tweet. A team of L&T Smart World and Communication experts along with police are working from the command control centre (CCC) at the Cyberabad police commissionerate on crowd analytic tools. Police have assigned 335 cameras in the three city commissionerates for crowd analytics purpose to monitor the violations during the lockdown period. With the government imposing Rs 1,000 fine on those violating face mask rule, police have now started using the software to alert patrolling teams. . “The system with deep learning capability analyses feed from live cameras and triggers real-time alerts at CCC about people not wearing the masks. The team, in turn, alerts staff at local police stations,” state police IT cell DSP Srinath Reddy said. Like the mob alert and automatic number plate recognition, the face mask violation and detection system would also be enforced in three city police commissionerates, police said. “Initially, field staff will create an awareness by approaching the violators,” the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-ai-to-help-pin-down-mask-violators/articleshow/75637439.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Details of trains, buses to be made public: Desai||Kolhapur: The details of trains or buses to be deployed for transporting migrant labourers to their respective destinations will be made public, said district collector Daulat Desai, adding that people should not spread and believe rumours about the same. Confirming the rumours about the deployment of trains to Rajasthan and Bihar on Friday, Desai said, “We have prepared a list of migrants seeking travel permission. We are arranging trains, buses or private transport to transport them to their native places. Within a day or two we will receive consent letters about their travel, following which we will announce the trains or buses along with their timings.” Over 15,000 migrants have applied to the Kolhapur district administration seeking permission to travel to their native places. A large number of these migrants work at construction sites and industrial units across the district. The administration has asked them to get the medical check-ups done and present the necessary fitness certificates. The district administration has sent the list of 1,197 migrants to the Rajasthan government for consent. Over 1,700 workers from Rajasthan and 2,165 from Bihar have registered with the district administration for returning home. On Friday, the district administration approved the travel of 504 workers from other states. They have left with the private transport vehicles after the consent from the administration was approved. So far 1,047 migrant workers out of which 769 from Madhya Pradesh alone have been granted travel pass. Desai said that the list of 10,698 migrant workers have been sent to the administrations of their respective states and district. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “Considering the capacity of a given train, the list of 1,197 migrants has been prepared. They will soon be transported to their home state. Most of the workers want to go back to their native places since they are out of work for the last one-and-a-half month. They are unsure of any work in the coming months. We have ensured that they receive food regularly and no one sleeps hungry. We are also going to make funds available to transport these migrants.” Meanwhile the district administration has set up helpline numbers at 13 controlling centres of state transport in the district. The travellers from other districts can get their details registered with these controlling centres, and, according to the number of people and their locations, buses will be deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/details-of-trains-buses-to-be-made-public-desai/articleshow/75635808.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||Quarantine centre below flats, 14 families panic||Nagpur: An institutional quarantine centre, set up in a semi-residential building, is giving sleepless nights to people residing in the flats. They are running pillar to post for shifting the centre.The district administration and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has turned a 27-room hotel of three floors into institutional quarantine centre at Dahipur, Untkhana, near Ashok Chowk on Great Nag Road. There are 14 flats on three floors above the hotel. Fourteen families are residing in these flats.One of the flat owners lodged a complaint with the NMC saying, “Our life has turned into a nightmare as all residents are in fear due to the quarantine centre. As of now, 72 persons have been admitted in the centre. Vehicles and ambulances come every hour to the building. We are unable to go to even the ground floor since the centre has opened.”Also, there are residential buildings on two sides and behind the quarantine centre.The move, however, has raised a big question when collector Ravindra Thakare closed down an institutional quarantine centre in a government hostel at Wanadongri buckling under the pressure from Hingna MLA Sameer Meghe. Another quarantine centre in a government hostel at Civil Lines was also shut. Sources said that had not the centres been closed, the NMC would have not required buildings with very less number of rooms.An NMC official said, “District administration facilitates buildings for quarantine centre. We trace and quarantine close contacts of positive persons.”Collector Ravindra Thakare did not respond to TOI calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/quarantine-centre-below-flats-14-families-panic/articleshow/75634513.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Back home, workers narrate their plight||KENDRAPADA: Large number of workers with homes in Kendrapada district and nearby areas returned from states like West Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Kerala with their dreams shattered and a bagful of horror stories to tell. Many left their workplaces with empty pockets and vowed never to return. Most of the returnees alleged that they were denied wages and food by their employers after the Centre announced lockdown. “We had gone to Kerala to change our fate. What will we tell our families now?” asked Biswaranjan Patra (29) of Bagapatia village, who returned on Monday. Biswaranjan was working in a plywood factory in Ernakulum district of Kerala. Many workers have had to face a torrid time. Khirod Rout (57), a plumber from Ashrambalikuda village in Kendrapada district, cycled for 22 days from Surat to reach his village on Thursday and swore never to return. “I was working as a plumber in a construction company in Surat for the last 10 years. The contractors stopped all work due to the lockdown and refused to pay our wages. We stayed in an under-construction apartment for 10 days. Having exhausted all my savings, I decided to cycle back to the village,” said Khirod who was earning around Rs 15,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/back-home-workers-narrate-their-plight/articleshow/75635809.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Simha, Ramadas at loggerheads over garbage disposal project||Mysuru: In an indication of a division between the local leadership and the central members within the part, Krishnaraja MLA SA Ramadas and Mysuru MP Pratap Simha appear to have locked horns over disposal of garbage in Mysuru city, and cleaning up the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm. Months ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, Ramadas had led a protest alleging that waste from Kerala was being dumped illegally at the farm. However, two years after the elections, the issue remains unresolved, much to the chagrin of the residents, who continue to endure the foul stench emanated from the farm. Simha and Ramadas allegedly sparred over the latter’s failure to clear rotting waste at the sewage farm at a meeting chaired by Karnataka urban development minister Byrathi Basavaraj on Thursday. While Simha on Friday reiterated his intention to go ahead with the bio-remediation project at the Vidyaranyapuram facility, Ramadas said that he was ignorant of its impending implementation and called for holding a public consultation meeting. Of the 500 tonnes of waste generated in Mysuru city every day, it is at the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm that roughly 40% of the garbage – 200 tonnes – processed. The farm, however, is not equipped to process such a voluminous quantity of waste, and it is the residents who have had to bear the brunt of the lack of a more effective mechanism for disposal of waste in Mysuru. Although the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had a comprehensive plan readied for setting up two additional solid waste management plants in the city, the proposal has remained on paper. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, along with MCC commissioner Gurudutta Hegde, visited Nagpur to study the bio-remediation mechanism in use in the Maharashtra city, and recommended its replication in Mysuru. Simha, admitting to differences with the Krishnaraja MLA over resolving the longstanding issue, said, “This is a problem that has remained unsolved for three decades. I am determined to ahead with the project. The then Mysuru district in-charge minister V Somanna had cleared the decks for the project, and now if it has to reworked, we will go nowhere.” On the other hand, Ramadas said that he was not aware of Sankar and Hegde having visited Nagpur. “I am seeking details about the project for the benefit of the people, and I believe that they must be consulted before we go ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/simha-ramadas-at-loggerheads-over-garbage-disposal-project/articleshow/75631174.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: Contact tracing on after 5 inmates test +ve||Kolhapur: The Satara district administration is on high alert and has initiated contact tracing after five female inmates at the district jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. They belonged to the group of inmates which was transferred to Satara district jail in batches over the last few weeks. A total of nine inmates have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection so far. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh told TOI that the other inmates from the same group have been placed in a quarantine facility at a different venue in the jail premises. Meanwhile, their throat swab samples are being collected for further investigation. While state minister for public health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that after the first four inmates tested positive, a total of 68 swab samples were collected and sent to the Pune-based B J Medical College for testing. The reports of the same confirmed five new cases while 45 turned out negative. The results of around 18 samples are awaited. Notably, 45 people were sent to the Satara jail in batches after Pune’s Yerawada central jail was placed under complete lockdown, meaning no one was allowed to move in or out of the facility for any reason. Meanwhile in Satara, any person who is arrested for any crime is first placed in an isolation facility outside the jail for a period of 14 days. The person’s throat swab sample is then taken and sent for testing. If the tests turn negative for Covid-19, the person is lodged in the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-contact-tracing-on-after-5-inmates-test-ve/articleshow/75635617.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Shramik train passed same tracks hours before tragedy||BHOPAL/INDORE: At the same time that 16 migrant workers from MP were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad on Friday, a Shramik Special was on its way to Obaidullahganj near Bhopal, bringing home over 1,200 migrants. The train had started from Aurangabad at 9pm, two hours after the migrants started walking from Jalna, about 50km away. The Shramik Special would have passed on the same rails, on which the 16 migrants were cut down the next morning. The administration is trying to find out why the 20 who decided to walk 1,000km home couldn’t avail of the Shramik Special trains that the MP government has requested. Three trains from Maharashtra have already arrived in MP, carrying over 3,000 workers, for free. “News of this accident is heart-rending. I have spoken to railway minister Piyush Goyal and sought a quick investigation,” tweeted CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shramik-train-passed-same-tracks-hrs-before-tragedy/articleshow/75636799.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Cheap politics by KCR||Hyderabad: The state Congress has criticised chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for insulting leaders of Telangana Inti Party during a press conference after his cabinet meet recently. Former MLC Ramulu Naik said it is KCR who is indulging in cheap politics, not opposition parties. “How can KCR belittle Cheruku Sudhakar who was in the forefront of Telangana agitation,” said Naik. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-cheap-politics-by-kcr/articleshow/75636801.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Unfazed by tragedy, 50 families embark on arduous journey home from UP||LUCKNOW: Tragedy failed to deter at least 50 families from Chhattisgarh to pedal back home, just 24 hours after a couple from their village was crushed to death by a truck on Shaheed Path. These daily wage labourers, who reside in a slum cluster at Sector 6, Jankipuram, embarked on 850km treacherous journey on bicycles on Friday after losing their livelihood in Lucknow due to the lockdown. With bags and water bottles tied on their cycles, these migrant workers were accompanied by their families. With rations barely a trickle in their Jankipuram cluster, these famished labourers said, they will pedal all the way to Chhattisgarh or hitch-hike midway to reach home. These labourers hail from Bilaspur, Bemetara, Baloda Bazar, Korba and Raigarh districts of Chhattisgarh while a few reside in the border district of Sonbhadra in UP. “If we stay back here, we will die of hunger. We have no money to purchase food,” said Yogesh Kumar, who would work as a mason at construction sites in Lucknow. He sold off his meagre collection, including a wrist watch and radio to buy a cycle to head home. Kumar’s friend, Mahesh said, they would take turns to pedal while the other rode pillion holding the bags. Another migrant, Shashi Devi, carrying her three-year-old daughter, Tara, said, “We have no jobs here and we don’t know when the lockdown will end. It’s better to reach home, where we can at least till our lands,” she said. Ram Kumar, whose brother died in the accident on Shaheed Path, said, his elder sister accompanying them was pregnant and hoped to avail sops of Chhattisgarh government for migrants to restart his life. “Few days ago, my brother told me he would take a train or bus or hitch-hike to reach his village. But, he began cycling his way home and died on the way,” he said with tears in his eyes. When TOI spoke to the district administration about absence of ration in Jankipuram area, additional district magistrate, Trans-Gomti, Vishwa Bhushan Mishra, said, “We have not received any complaint from these areas.” On the exodus of Chhattisgarh migrants because of lack of food, Mishra lobbed the ball in the court of SHO, Jankipuram. However, the SHO, Tej Prakash Singh, denied any movement of people from the slum clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unfazed-by-tragedy-50-families-embark-on-arduous-journey-home/articleshow/75637460.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Farm produce delivered directly to customers||Kolhapur: The farmer producer companies (FPC) in the district have moved a step ahead and are now directly selling their produce to their consumers in the city. Earlier, theese firms were never involved in direct selling of their produce as they had traders to do so. The nationwide lockdown has resulted in the FPCs in the district directly reaching out to their customers. The lockdown resulted in shortage of workers and, therefore, the harvesting of vegetables and crops has slowed down in most farms. In addition, it has also hampered the supply chain. The transport of vegetables in big cities such as Mumbai and Pune too has stopped completely since over three weeks now. Vikas Patil, a farmer and the manager of The Natural Farms, an FPC set up two years ago, was upset with the plight of farmers. After a discussion with the district authorities in this regard, he started selling his farm produce directly to customers from the city wit other farmers following suit. “The farmers are now relieved. I have started home delivery of fruits and vegetables directly to customers around two weeks ago. Now, I get around 80-100 orders per day. I get orders from all sections of the society — from rich to poor and from young students to the senior citizens. With this new way of selling our produce, we have ensured that the farmers suffer minimum losses. Now, I have around 400 farmers registered with me. They quote the price and make sure they get customers for their daily harvest of vegetables," said Patil. Patil said that the customers and farmers are both happy since the farmers get fair price for their produce and customers get fresh vegetables and fruits at affordable rates. “The orders are accepted by afternoon and the vegetables and fruits are collected and sorted in the evening and supplied to the customers at their doorstep in the morning,” said Patil. Patil said that he is getting orders from hoteliers as well; however, he want to focus on his customers first as they are lockded in their houses due to lockdown and most of them, especially elderly, are unable to step out for buying essentials such as groceries. “People should stay indoors during lockdown as advised by the government,” Patil added. Yuvraj Shete, a farmer from Pattankodoli village, said, “Since I has registered myself with the FPC, around 60% of the vegetables from my farms got sold even during lockdown. I would not have imagined this when the lockdown was imposed a few weeks back. Though there are no workers in our farms, me and my family members manage to get the vegetables harvested as per the demand by the FPC and thus reach out to our customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farm-produce-delivered-directly-to-customers/articleshow/75635831.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Private schools violating fee order to face action||GURUGRAM: In the wake of increasing complaints against several private schools violating education department guidelines on school fees, the state government on Friday ordered all divisional commissioners to redress the grievances of parents and submit action taken reports at the earliest. The department has also directed the education officers of all districts to ensure implementation of its earlier order that allowed schools to collect only tuition fees on a monthly basis to pay staff during Covid-19 lockdown. These orders, however, still fall short of bringing any relief to the parents and their ongoing online protest as the issue of whether the additional charges are deferred or waived off still remains unaddressed. In a letter to all the divisional commissioners of Haryana, the state’s principal secretary has pointed out that due to lockdown several parents are in financial stress and not in a position to pay the school fees of their wards. “It is pertinent to mention here that due to early closure of schools in the wake of Covid-19 and thereafter due to announcement of lockdown. The expenditure on co-curricular activities, sports activities, transportation, other development related activities etc is nil,” he wrote. Reiterating that schools should only ask for monthly tuition fee and no other funds during lockdown, the letter called upon all the divisional commissioners to look into the matter and submit the report on action taken. Parents, however, say these orders actually bring little relief to them as the confusion of whether the additional charges by schools are deferred or waived off still remains. On April 12, the department directed private schools to only ask for one month tuition fees. But on April 24, it re-issued the order and elaborated further that services that aren’t availed cannot be charged during the lockdown period, but said that the additional charges are deferred. “Deferring of charges is a good news for schools, not us. It’s illogical. If we haven’t avail services and there are no physical classes what’s the rationale behind collecting these charges in future. Ultimately we have to pay it. Will our companies that have cut our salaries give the amount being deducted later on,” asked Amit Ghai, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pvt-schools-violating-fee-order-to-face-action/articleshow/75635830.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Wine shops should stay shut’||Hyderabad: Sangareddy Congress MLA Jayaprakash Reddy on Friday criticised the TRS government’s decision to reopen wine shops and said it has defeated the very purpose of the lockdown aimed at preventing spread of the coronavirus. “People are thronging wine shops without maintaining physical distance. If Covid-19 spreads, KCR should be held responsible,” said Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wine-shops-should-stay-shut/articleshow/75636806.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||BMC chief shunted out for ‘inept’ crisis management||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday shunted out BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi for ‘inept’ handling of the Covid-19 crisis, replacing him with IAS officer Iqbal Singh Chahal (56) who has been secretary with the state urban development department. While there were reports that Pardeshi had been shifted because the Central team in the city led by veteran bureaucrat Manoj Joshi had expressed its displeasure over BMC’s handling of the situation, in the corridors of power in Maharashtra the transfer was being seen as a fallout of the cold war between Pardeshi and state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. Pardeshi’s exit came less than a year after he took over as civic chief. Considered the “blue-eyed boy” of former CM Devendra Fadnavis, Pardeshi had taken over as Mumbai municipal commissioner on May 13 last year. He will now take Chahal’s place in the urban development department. A senior bureaucrat said Thackeray was upset after a video clip from the BMC-run Sion hospital showing bodies lying in Sion hospital next to patients admitted in the Covid-19 ward went viral on Wednesday. Pardeshi was also blamed for flip-flops and for not consulting Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on key matters. The bureaucrat said that after chief secretary Mehta had granted permission for opening liquor shops in Mumbai, the BMC was expected to coordinate with Singh to ensure there were no law and order problems. Since that did not happen, liquor shops had to be shut due to big crowds only two days after they had been opened, he said. Further, the bureaucrat said, between the first Central team’s visit on April 21 and the visit of another Central team on Thursday-Friday, there was no progress in tackling the crisis in the city. The bureaucrat said the two teams had found several lacunae in the BMC administration because of which the civic body, despite its huge workforce, was unable to halt the spread of the disease. Along with Pardeshi, the CM transferred more than half a dozen senior bureaucrats on Friday. Additional chief secretary (PWD) Manoj Saunik will take over the reins of the state finance department, while relief and rehabilitation secretary Kishore Raje Nimbalkar will replace him. Additional municipal commissioner A L Jarad will replace Nimbalkar, while former Metro 3 managing director Ashwini Bhide and former Thane municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal have been posted in the BMC as additional municipal commissioners. AMC Jaysahree Bhoj will be the new managing director of the Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation. The new civic chief, Chahal, an IAS officer of the 1989 batch, had earlier worked with the water resources department before moving to the urban development department. Chahal belongs to Rajasthan and joined the IAS in 1989. After completing his training at the IAS academy, his first posting was in Nashik from 1993 to 1996 as chief executive officer, zilla parishad. He was collector of Aurangabad from 1997 to 2001 and in Thane from 2001 to 2004. Later he was excise commissioner between 2007 and 2011 and medical education secretary from 2011 to 2013. He was on deputation with the Government of India from 2014 to 2016, and when he returned to the state, he was appointed water resources secretary in 2016 and later urban development secretary in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-chief-shunted-out-for-inept-crisis-management/articleshow/75637475.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||JK Tyre resumes ops at its plants across India||Mysuru: The JK Tyre and Industries on Friday announced partial resumption of its operations in line with the guidelines issued by the Union nhome ministry Affairs and with permissions from the authorities concerned. According to a statement, JK Tyre has commenced production, albeit in a graded manner, at its manufacturing facilities in Mysuru, including Raghupati Singhania Centre of Excellence, the global research and development hub here. Operations have also started at the company’s facilities in Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Kankroli in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. All of them will function with restricted manpower and stringent precautionary measures to ensure safety, sanitisation and social distancing, the statement added. JK Tyre company CMD Raghupati Singhania said that only essential staff will be allowed to the listed facilities, while the remaining employees will continue to work from home until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jk-tyre-resumes-ops-at-its-plants-across-india/articleshow/75633107.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||19 check posts for Covid inspection||Kolhapur: The district administration will set up as many as 19 check points in 12 talukas to keep an eye on every individual entering Kolhapur from other district and states. According to district collector Daulat Desai, over 17,000 citizens have applied for coming back to Kolhapur while as many as 37,000 have applied for getting out of the district. “The check points will serve the purpose of screening people coming back to their homes,” he said. Desai had already said that the administration has prepared extra institutional quarantine facility for the returnees across the district. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district is hosting as many as seven community kitchens wherein over 600 people are being fed every day. The kitchen provides morning breakfast, lunch, evening tea, and dinner. According to a district administration official, all necessary safety precautions are being followed in all the kitchens. A report from the district administration revealed that as many as 14 shelter homes in the district are currently hosting 712 people. “These shelter homes are in Kolhapur city, Kagal, Hatkanagale, Wathar, Ichalkaranji, Jaysingpur, and Gaganbawda areas of the district,” Desai said. “In these temporary shelter homes, around 155 residents are from Maharashtra, while 557 are from other states including 251 from Karnataka, 201 from Tamil Nadu, 22 from Rajasthan, 41 from Uttar Pradesh, 20 from Madhya Pradesh, among others, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/19-check-posts-for-covid-inspection/articleshow/75635848.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Nagpur||3 city buses converted into ambulances to ferry Covid patients||Nagpur: NMC is converting three city buses into ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients. “These will carry those having mild infection to Covid-19 Care Centres,” a senior official said.These ambulances will not be air-coonditioned. They are being prepared to ease pressure on dedicated Covid-19 ambulances, the official said.“Seats will not be removed. Only air-tight partitions are being put up to separate driver cabins from the rest of the vehicle of two midi and one mini bus at the workshop of Travel Times, one of the city bus operators, in Khapri,” said an official from NMC’s transport department. The measure has been initiated following directives from municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe.“At present, NMC is using its seven ambulances to ferry suspected cases to hospitals and quarantine centres. Of the 11 ambulances of Maharashtra government’s 108 service, the civic body is using four to ferry only Covid-19 patients,” said an NMC doctor.The NMC official explained these ambulances will be used to ferry quarantined patients. They will carry only 10 patients at a time. Though NMC has over 200 standard buses, it chose three buses owned by three red bus operators. “Partition of buses will ensure no direct contact of patients with drivers,” the official said.Apart from first aid boxes, no other emergency medical facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds will be available in these ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-city-buses-converted-into-ambulances-to-ferry-covid-patients/articleshow/75634575.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH conducts viva voce through video conferencing||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad (UoH), for the first time in its history, conducted viva voce for PhD scholars through video conferencing on Friday. The university had suspended its classes recently, following the government’s directive over its fight against the spread of coronavirus. According to a press release issued by the UoH, the decision to conduct viva voce online was taken during a deans and heads meeting held on April 10. It was done in order to ensure that the students’ results can be released on schedule. Three research scholars appeared for the viva voce on Friday on various topics. The university will be conducting at least 10 more PhD viva voce examinations in the coming days. It may be recalled that even the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad had conducted viva voce for PhD scholars online in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-conducts-viva-voce-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/75636821.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP probing if LG produced styrene without govt permit||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh government is investigating if LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd unit in Visakhapatnam is manufacturing styrene without requisite permissions. Styrene vapours had leaked from the plant early on Thursday morning, killing 12 people and leaving at least 300 sick. The company has already been accused of operating without requisite environmental clearances (EC). Sources in the AP government said the company has permission to import styrene. The government is trying to track down relevant import-related documents for the chemical, which was being used to manufacture polystyrene (PS) and expandable polystyrene (EPS), sources said. “So far they have not been able to furnish any documents to prove that they were importing styrene. They are supposed to furnish those documents. So, we think they were making it there,” said a source. At the time of going to press, LG Chem and LG Polymers had not responded to multiple emails sent by TOI. In an affidavit dated May 9, 2019, to the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), the company had admitted that “the present manufacture of PS and EPS is in operation without a valid EC and was observed to be a ‘violation’. It also declared that it was importing styrene as the previous owner “McDowell & Company had decided to decommission polluting plants such as production of styrene”. “The prior EC was not taken for the said manufacturing activity as per the provisions of the Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, as no clearance was obtained vide entry 5(e)- Petrochemical based processing… As on date our industry does not have a valid EC substantiating the produced quantity, issued by the competent authority, for continuing operations. However, we are continuing our plant operations with valid consent for operation from State Pollution Control Board, Andhra Pradesh…,” the affidavit stated. “I am aware that the environmental clearances will not be operational till such time I comply requirements and judgment of Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 2nd August 2017 in Writ Petition (Civil) No 114 of 2014 in the matter of Common Cause versus Union of India and Ors,” the affidavit said. Also, though the project falls under category ‘A’ and requires approval from MoEF, the company applied for EC to SEIAA, and the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) on June 21, 2019, recommended that the proposal be transferred to MoEF, said AP government sources. The MoEF website showed that the company had submitted proposals in December 2017 and April 2018 for capacity expansion from 414 TPD to 655 TPD within the existing 213-acre site at a cost of Rs 168 crore. However, the project was delisted from the MoEF portal in November 2019. Former Union energy secretary EAS Sarma wrote to AP chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday questioning APPCB’s granting consent for establishment (CFE) and consent for operation (CFO) in early 2019 for the unit’s expansion without clearances from either the state government or the MoEF. TOI has learnt that a petition has also been filed by Vizag-based environmentalists with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) citing this affidavit and stating that the company has been operating the unit without valid environmental clearances and has also violated the hazardous materials storage rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-probing-if-lg-produced-styrene-without-govt-permit/articleshow/75636860.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Labourer couple cycling home to Chhattisgarh from UP run over on Shaheed Path||LUCKNOW: A labourer couple from Chhattisgarh taking the long journey home on a bicycle was crushed to death by a speeding truck on Shaheed Path early Thursday, less than hour after they moved out of their Sikandpur slum cluster in Jankipuram. Their two children who were also on the cycle, suffered head injuries, but survived. The couple, Krishna and Pramila Sahu, lay in a pool of blood after being hit by a truck while their 3-year-old daughter Chandini and 18-month-old son Nikhil were tossed off the cycle and were critically injured. Passers-by dialled the UP 112 and rushed the injured family to hospital. Krishna was declared brought dead, while Pramila succumbed during treatment. DCP, south, Rayees Akhtar said an FIR was lodged against unidentified persons for causing death by negligent driving and rash driving. He said, the injured family was first taken to a private a hospital and then shifted to KGMU Trauma Centre. The orphaned children, who have been handed over to their uncle Ram Kumar, received financial aid of Rs 10,000 from UP 112. Inspector Manoj Shukla had visited the injured children in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/labourer-couple-cycling-home-to-cgarh-run-over-on-shaheed-path/articleshow/75637477.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||HC raps Telangana govt’s inaction against erring traders||HYDERABAD: The high court on Friday sought to know from the state government as to why it is lagging behind in prosecuting erring traders who are raising prices of essentials. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy which took up a TOI report on artificial hiking of prices of vegetables in various bazaars as a PIL had earlier directed member secretary G V Subrahmanyam of state legal services authority to study the issue and furnish a report. He, in turn, furnished his report after studying more than ten markets, super markets, rythu bazaars etc. While supermarkets having supply links with farmers have not raised prices, other markets including rythu bazaars witnessed a raise in prices of vegetables, oils, pulses, wheat flour, mutton etc, his report says. The only two commodities that have not registered any price hike are eggs and tomatoes. The bench asked the state as to how it expects people to survive with such increased prices. “You asked your employees to survive with half salaries. But you did not take adequate steps to see that hoarding, blackmarketing etc do not thrive,” the bench said expressing its disapproval of meager number of cases booked against hoarders and blackmarketeers. Advocate general BS Prasad said they booked cases against 270 persons, to which the bench said the number reported was too small. “ In entire April, you have booked just 3 cases in areas under Narayanaguda police station,” the bench said referring to state report. “People making fast buck during this crisis period are going scot free. You are letting them go,” the bench said seeking a report within a week on the details of the action taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-ts-inaction-against-erring-traders/articleshow/75637471.cms||M Sagar Kumar
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In less than 10 days, 937 Covid-19 patients pick home||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the government allowing Covid-19 positive people with mild symptoms to remain in home isolation, many patients have started availing the facility. In less than 10 days, the number of people opting for home isolation has crossed the 900-mark. On Saturday, as many as 937 people were staying in home isolation. The facility has taken some load off the government Covid care centres and hospitals which are overburdened due to the corona crisis. Following the guidelines from the Centre that mild or pre-symptomatic Covid-19 cases can be kept in home isolation, Delhi government on April 30 had issued a detailed standard operating procedure for the patient and the caregiver to follow during the home isolation period. Before a person gets nod for home isolation, a health team comprising Anganwadi and ASHA workers under the supervision of a public health facility in-charge assesses the appropriateness of the facility of a mild symptomatic Covid patient. Apart from a separate room for the patient, only those having the 24x7 service of a caregiver are allowed home isolation. All the people opting for home isolation are kept under regular health supervision. “On a regular basis, health staff are measuring the patient’s body temperature and informing the status to the district surveillance officer. The surveillance team also actively monitors the health condition of the patient and the caregiver telephonically and in some cases by personally visiting them,” said an official. “The feeling of being close to their family gives the patients greater determination to fight the coronavirus,” the official added. In case of serious symptoms, such as difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion or bluish discoloration of lips or face, those under home isolation have been asked to call the surveillance team. The patients will be shifted to hospitals for further treatment. The home isolation will be over in 14 days if two consecutive test reports come negative. A passive surveillance of the persons will, however, continue even after they successfully complete the home isolation. Delhi government has, meanwhile, appointed 37 doctors who will provide teleconsultation to the patients who are under home isolation and need the services of a qualified medical practitioner. It is an app-based service. The consultation will be available from 8am to 8pm on all days of the week, including holidays. The patients can make requests for teleconsultation through the contact numbers shared with them by the health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-less-than-10-days-937-covid-patients-pick-home/articleshow/75652702.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Pay up, then travel: Train rides are anything but free||BENGALURU: Virendra Raj, 26, worked as a lift operator and office boy at a company on Sarjapur Road. When the lockdown was imposed, he was laid off. Now, he has set out on foot to reach his home district of Nawada in Bihar. “I was paid salary for April. I have no choice but to go home as I don’t have a place to stay or a job,” Raj said. “I don’t even know how to register for travel. A friend from my district brought me here to KR Market to help me find a bus to catch a train. But I have only Rs 200 with me,” said Raj. Although the state government resumed train services after three days on Friday, many workers could not travel since they can’t pay the fare. The Centre had claimed 85% of transportation cost will be borne by railways and states have to bear the remaining 15%. But travel is anything but free. Instead, travellers have to pay a tidy sum. Besides regular sleeper class fare, railways collects Rs 50 extra from each worker (superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional Rs 20). Over and above that, BMTC charges Rs 140 per head to ferry labourers from their camps to the railway station. Since most workers have no money and only those who can pay are being allowed to travel, migrants are making distress calls to their families back home, asking for fund transfers. It is unclear how workers’ families back home are managing amidst the lockdown. Ali Khan (35), a worker from Gopalganj, Bihar, said: “I worked as a waiter in a hotel in Koramangala. My employer sacked me without pay for March as soon as the lockdown was announced. I couldn’t pay rent so I lost my lodgings. I’ve had to depend on free food. My only hope now is to go home, but I have only Rs 50. I don’t want to die here. I have a family in Gopalganj.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pay-up-then-travel-train-rides-are-anything-but-free/articleshow/75636235.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Bainguinim waste plant to be set up on build-transfer basis||PANAJI: Goa waste management corporation (GWMC) has finalized the tender document to set up the over Rs 200cr garbage treatment plant at Bainguinim, Old Goa on a build own operate and transfer (BOOT) basis. The 250-tonne per day (TPD) capacity plant — 50 TPD segregated dry waste, 150 TPD segregated wet waste and 50 TPD mixed waste — will cater to Tiswadi and Ponda talukas. Minister for waste management Michael Lobo told TOI, “The tender document to invite bidders to set up plant at Bainguinim is ready and has been sent to the chief minister Pramod Sawant for his approval as he heads the GWMC.” “We will set up the plant at Bainguinim on BOOT basis. Once the file is cleared by Sawant we will float a tender to invite bidders,” he said. Sources said that due to lockdown, Sawant may delay clearing the file as it would not be priority at this moment. The plant also faces opposition from residents of the area. Lobo said that the plant at Bainguinim is need of the hour as the garbage getting generated today might have reduced due to the lockdown and reduced tourism activities, but it won’t be the case forever. “Once tourism activities starts, garbage generated would be also increased,” he said. With tourism activities in the state coming to a standstill due to the lockdown, garbage generation has reduced to around 40%. During peak tourist season, the 150-tonne capacity solid waste management facility (SWMF) at Saligao received nearly 200 tonne of wet and dry waste. In January 2020, the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA) granted an environmental clearance (EC) for the project at Bainguinim. The EC has placed 12 general conditions for the construction of the plant, mandating that the project prepare a report on energy conservation measures which conform to energy conservation norms as finalised by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. The report had to be submitted in three months to the state expert appraisal committee with a copy marked to Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB). Besides, Bainguinim, the government is setting up a garbage treatment plants at Verna and Cacora, with a target to make Goa garbage free by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-waste-plant-to-be-set-up-on-build-transfer-basis/articleshow/75637483.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot achieves another techno feat||RAJKOT: In what could be a major breakthrough for N95 masks production in India, two Rajkot-based engineering firms have developed the machine indigenously to make this medically crucial masks. Most companies making N95 masks have been procuring the manufacturing machines from China, Japan and South Korea. The machines, developed by Pelican Rotoflex and Raju Engineers Pvt Ltd, are expected to be launched in the market within a couple of weeks and testing has been successful. According to industry experts, China has been selling this machine for Rs 1.5 crore apiece, but after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the companies there have doubled the cost to Rs 3 crore. The market price of N-95 mask is currently between Rs 300 to Rs 400 but if these indigenously developed machines are used, the cost is expected to reduce by Rs 50 to Rs 75. Talking to TOI, Bharat Shah, chairman of Pelican Rotoflex said, “There was no commitment of machines delivery by the Chinese companies and they were asking for 50% advance from Indian importers. The country needs these machine in bulk due to increasing Covid cases, so we decided to develop the technology and manufacture them here.” Shah said a team of 150 engineers developed the technology to make this machine in just 21 days. "We will start commercial production of masks with the required fabric in three days. We will request the government authorities to speed up the approval process looking at the need of these masks in the country," he said. The masks need to be certified by South India Textile Research Association (SITARA). Due to lockdown, it’s difficult to install the machines wherever required in India. Therefore, the company will manufacture the masks for the first two months and sell it to the vendors. Raju Engineers’ executive director, Utsav Doshi, said, “We are conducting trials to make N95 masks on our machines and the first set of machine will be ready in next one week.” “Maximum N-95 mask-making machines are imported from China, but indigenously developed ones will help reduce its cost,” he added. Yash Shah, director of Pelican Rotoflex, said, "A number of machine manufacturers and raw material suppliers from Taiwan, South Korea and China were contacted for supply of the machines. Importers were ready to airlift the machines but not only was the cost high, but there was also uncertainty over the quality of the some Chinese machine as well as delivery time." Pelican Rotoflex can make one lakh masks daily by using its own machine. The Rajkot industry is developing capacity to manufacture 7 to 10 machine per month as per the requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-achieves-another-techno-feat/articleshow/75634620.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Beeramguda residents fear Vizag-like incident||HYDERABAD: Residents of Beeramguda woke up to the smell of something burning on Tuesday night. They quickly shut their windows as a fire raged in a petro-chemical unit located nearby. One worker was killed in the incident and two injured, officials confirm. “We could not sleep through the night. It was only after we complained to the local pollution control board officials that they inspected the site. Only after they reassured us that there was no gas leak or harmful emissions, were we able to breathe easy,” said Gaddam Rakesh Reddy, a resident of the area. Janya, station fire officer, Patancheru, confirmed the fire took two hours to douse and fire department personnel were there through the night. “A Vizag-like incident could happen here any time,” said Papamal Dhanuka, a resident. “We get a foul smell almost every day from late in the night to the early hours of the morning. Residents have complained of headaches and irritation of their eyes. Children rarely go out to play for fear of exposure to emissions,” he said. The pollution control board is planning to form a committee with members from the local community to address the issue. But residents remain sceptical. “We met the the TSPCB member secretary a few months back. He had then warned managements of these industries, but nothing has changed for us on ground,” said Uma Sankar, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beeramguda-residents-fear-vizag-like-incident/articleshow/75636832.cms||Uttara Varma
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan crosses 100-death mark,mortality rate doubles in May||JAIPUR: The state reported the 100th Covid-19 death on Friday afternoon, with the mortality rate doubling in eight days in May so far compared to April. A total of four deaths were reported on the day, taking the toll to 103. The number of new cases, meanwhile, stood at 152 on the day. Among those who died on Friday was a security guard posted at SMS Hospital. "He suffered a cardiac arrest in the afternoon while he was on duty. After his death, he tested positive for Covid-19," said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital. Besides, two doctors -- a husband and wife -- of the medicine unit were tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-crosses100-death-markmortality-ratedoubles-in-may/articleshow/75636836.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Vadodara||Two crash scooter into policemen, held||VADODARA: Dramatic scenes were witnessed at Narhari Circle near Kamatibaug on Friday morning as two scooter riders did not stop at police checkpoint and rode around the circle with cops chasing them. The duo finally stopped after the riders rammed into two cops injuring them. The scooter riders – Manthan Prajapati and Ronak Shah – were going toward Narhari Hospital. However, seeing policemen trying to stop them, Prajapati rode his scooter around the circle. When police sub-inspector V A Jadeja and home guard jawan Nitesh Mohite tried to stop them, Prajapati rammed the vehicle into the two cops. Mohite suffered minor injuries on his legs while Jadeja injured his back and hands. Police said the two riders also fell on the road. The duo, both residents of Vemali, was arrested and their scooter detained. Prajapati was booked for rash driving and causing hurt and Shah for violation of public notification at Sayajigunj police station. They were bailed out later in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-crash-scooter-into-policemen-held/articleshow/75634447.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Bengaluru no longer city of dreams’||BENGALURU: “Agar kuch ho gaya toh hum kya karenge (what would I do if something happens to you)?” This is something Manoj Kumar’s wife has been asking him every day for the past fortnight. Her call, made from Jharkhand, unsettles Manoj and makes him more desperate to leave. Having left everything behind to earn a livelihood, thousands of migrant workers like Manoj feel let down. Hundreds are being locked up in migrant camps. Many who are outside are facing police wrath. Gulfaraz and Hasnain Mohammed, whose Aadhaar and other details were collected by police earlier, were beaten up on Thursday near City Market. “We were just asking for address of the place we may have to go to and were caned,” said Gulfaraz, from Bihar, showing the bruises on his forehand and back. Manoj said at least 300 people in his camp have been held against their will in Konanakunte. “We came to Bengaluru because there were not enough opportunities back home. This is not the city we came to. How can adult men be kept behind locked doors?” Waiting and walkingAt least 300 from Jharkhand and Bihar who decided to walk to KR Puram railway station from Kempegowda International Airport on Friday took to roads in small groups. Even if they took the shortest route, KR Puram is at least 14km from KIA. The workers didn’t know what they’d do once they reached KR Puram as none of the trains designated to ferry migrant workers was to leave from there. “Nobody is telling us about when we can go or which train is leaving from where,” rued Pavan Kumar from Bihar. His labour colony in Mahadevapura has 300-400 people who want to leave. Mohammed, another worker, said: “They (authorities) made us fill forms five days ago, but they still keep saying our turn has not come.” The Mahadevapura lot said they will begin walking if no arrangements are made for their return by Saturday. Hundreds of migrants who were sent to Srigandha Palace near Hebbal by police were made to fill forms on Friday. They were even made to pay Rs 970 per person as train fare. BMTC was also charging travellers to ferry them to stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-no-longer-city-of-dreams/articleshow/75636204.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 9, 2020||Kanpur||Mumbai returned man tests Covid-19 positive, 1st case in UP's Fatehpur||KANPUR: Fatehpur reported its first confirmed case of Covid-19 after a Mumbai returned man tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. Fatehpur was a green zone area prior to the detection of its first Covid-19 case. The district administration has sealed the village. “A man from Zafarganj had returned to his home in Nayapurwa village under Zafarganj police area from Mumbai on May 2. He had travelled in train with a woman of Banda, who was also found infected,” said superintendent of police Fatehpur Prashant Singh. The man has been shifted to Newlapur quarantine centre and efforts are on to trace his contacts, said the SP. District magistrate Sanjiv Singh also visited Nayapurwa village on Friday and ordered to seal the village. The man, after protest by the villagers, had gone to district hospital for his medical checkup. “His nasal and swab sample was sent to Moti Lal Nehru hospital in Prayagraj and his reports were received on Friday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mumbai-returned-man-tests-ve-1st-case-in-fatehpur/articleshow/75636827.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||12 test positive in Bhatkal, all primary contacts of 18-year-old woman||Karwar: Uttara Kannada district in general, and Bhatkal town in particular, had a jolt with 12 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 24, and active cases are 13. The latest list of infected people includes a 5-month-old boy, 3-year-old boy, 60-year-old man, 75-year-old woman, 83-year-old man, five women aged 39, 25, 22, 11 and 12; and two men aged 33 and 30. All these persons were in contact with the 18-year-old woman who was tested positive on Wednesday. Of them, six are from the same family, one is their neighbour and five persons are from the adjacent street of the 18-year-old woman who had been admitted to Karwar Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. The primary contacts had been to Mangaluru for the treatment of a five-month-old child on April 19. They had reportedly stayed there and returned the next day, after getting the child treated. Uttara Kannada DC Harish Kumar K and ZP CEO M Roshan said that the district did not have new case since April 14. Bhatkal town has been declared a containment area for the last 40 days. Only those facing medical emergency are being allowed to visit the neighbouring districts. This family had gone to First Neuro hospital in Mangaluru to treat the child. “Of them, two were infected and they kept it a secret,” the DC said, adding after the 18-year-old woman was tested positive, the swab samples of the rest of the family and their contacts were sent for testing. Of them, 12 were tested positive. Following MP Anantkumar Hedge’s intervention, the hospital provided the list of different families in Uttara Kannada which had visited that hospital after April 1. All those families have been identified, the DC said. All the 12 cases will be treated at the Covid-19 ward of Karwar Medical College, Roshan said, adding necessary precautions have been taken to isolate the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/12-test-positive-in-bhatkal-all-primary-contacts-of-18-year-old-woman/articleshow/75632045.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops to tread cautiously with drunk driving tests in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Traffic cops in the city will operate with caution while conducting drunken driving checks. After the state government opened liquor stores on Wednesday, seniors cops are mulling ways to launch checks while safeguarding the health of their teams. “We will test the blood alcohol content of people by collecting blood samples at hospital. If breath analyzer has to be used, our staff have been asked to be careful. They wear gloves and face mask. They also maintain safe distance while the test is being performed,” Cyberabad DCP S M Vijay Kumar said. The first case of fatal drunken driving road mishap after the opening liquor shops in the state occurred at Shankarpally where two persons lost their lives and four others suffered injuries.“The blood alcohol content of the person driving the car was 175 mg/ 100 ml,” the DCP said. The permissible limit is 30mg/100ml. To prevent such mishaps, traffic police of Cyberabad have decided to perform drunken driving checks of the drivers who are found visibly drunk. “As of now we are not conducting drunk driving checks as lockdown is in force. We will look at the situation and decide about future course of action in next few days,” additional commissioner, Hyderabad, Anil Kumar said. Earlier, on an average, the three city police commissionerates registered 200 drunken driving cases in a week and 600 - 700 cases on weekends. However, after lockdown, Hyderabad and Rachakonda police have not registered any drunken driving cases. During the lockdown period, Cyberabad police registered eight drunken driving cases. “We caught the accused either because they are visibly drunk or because they ended up in a road mishap,” Cyberabad DCP S M Vijay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-tread-cautiously-with-drunk-driving-tests/articleshow/75637480.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Hungry, homeless and in no man’s land||BENGALURU: It has been 48 hours since Vishnu Kumar Mandal had his last meal. Following a phone call from a friend and fellow migrant from Bihar early on Friday, Mandal grabbed his belongings and set out on foot from Koramangala to KR Market. But sadly, the 24-year-old from Samastipur missed the buses that ferried migrant workers to Malur railway station, where they were to board a Bihar-bound special train. Standing near Sir Mirza Ismail Oval under the scorching 1pm sun, Mandal is in tears, but tries his best to stay strong. “I registered three weeks ago to go home, but there was no clarity from officials. Many like me are running helter-skelter, hungry and disoriented, trying to find a way to get back home,” said Mandal, who worked as cook at a restaurant. There were many like Mandal stranded at KR Market. They had either missed buses to Malur or were barred by police from boarding them, on the pretext they were not eligible since they were from other areas. Police said only those registered with police stations around KR Market and nearby areas could travel. Many who were left behind were from UP, Punjab, Gujarat and even Sikkim. “I was a chef in Whitefield. I came here after learning about the train, but I missed the bus,” said Alex Regi from Sikkim. Nights on pavementsMost migrants scrambling to take the train home have been homeless and jobless for over a month. Their employers showed them the door post the lockdown without paying them their dues. “We are a group of 12 people from Punjab, who have lost jobs and have no money. We are staying in a single room near Upparpet police station. We have registered but have no clue how to go forward,” said Jasvinder Singh of Patiala. Police said these men had rushed to KR Market after learning about the train from Malur. “We sent over 1,000 migrant workers in buses from Jolly Mohalla this noon,” a sub-inspector said. “Most of those who were sent were people who lived in and around this area. People who missed the bus are from other parts of Bengaluru like Koramangala and Whitefield. They must contact their jurisdictional police stations for transport.” But workers said they are not getting clear instructions on transport. “What we get when we go to a police station near us is verbal abuse and beatings with lathis. We don’t even have the energy to run away during such treatment,” said a teary-eyed Paswan, a construction worker, carrying a heavy backpack. About 150 migrants were planning to spend the night on the pavement outside the market and in an attempt to get a bus on Saturday. They hope someone will offer them free food to carry on for another day as their pockets are empty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hungry-homeless-and-in-no-mans-land/articleshow/75636276.cms||Petlee Peter
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||Won’t call in Army, but may seek more forces to help stressed cops: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday refuted rumours that the army would be called out in Mumbai as Covid-19 cases showed no signs of abating, and said if required, the state may seek additional forces from the Centre to afford rest to the stretched state police force in a phased manner. “There is a rumour that Mumbai will be handed over to the army and everything will be locked down and all shops will be shut. There is no need for the army, and the army will not come to Mumbai. The soldiers are keeping the borders safe and in this fight against the coronavirus, we are the warriors,” Thackeray said, addressing the state through his social media platforms. He admitted that the lockdown hadn’t yet broken the chain of Covid-19 infection. “The lockdown was like a speed-breaker but we haven’t managed to break the chain,” he said. The CM made it clear that whether the lockdown is to be extended beyond May 17 or if it is to be lifted is in the hands of the people. “There are still some areas where people lack discipline. If you violate the lockdown, you are extending the crisis,” said Thackeray. State machinery, including docs, cops and officers, stressed: CMThe state government is increasing the number of beds for patients, and roping in more doctors as a precautionary measure. “I am asking the administration to double the bed capacity at BKC grounds. We are also appealing to homoeopathy and ayurvedic doctors to join the fight,” said Thackeray. He added that the state machinery, including doctors, administrators as well as the police, is overworked and under a lot of stress. “Many police officials have fallen sick and even died fighting for us. The police personnel are working round the clock and are under tremendous stress. There is a need to give them some rest. It is cruel to set them aside only when they fall sick. The police need to be rested in a phase-wise manner and brought back, and till that time, if required, additional manpower from Centre will be asked for,” said Thackeray, who again clarified that these words shouldn’t be misinterpreted to mean that the army be brought in. Home minister Anil Deshmukh also cleared the air, tweeting: “Let me place it on record that @MumbaiPolice is competent enough in handling the situation.” A mischievous rumour is being spread about the army being deployed in Mumbai. Let me place it on record that… https://t.co/w2WggjTYAD— ANIL DESHMUKH (@AnilDeshmukhNCP) 1588947882000Speaking on the recent video clips purportedly showing dead bodies lying around patients in Sion hospital, the chief minister said that negligence in hospitals and towards patients would not be tolerated by the government in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wont-call-in-army-but-may-seek-more-forces-to-help-stressed-cops-cm/articleshow/75637490.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Dole for cobblers, leather workers||Bengaluru: The state government on Friday extended the cash assistance of Rs 5,000 to two other skilled workers in the unorganised sector by bringing them under the Rs 1,600 crore relief package announced by chief minister BS Yediyurappa recently. Deputy chief minister Govind Karjol on Friday said cobblers and skilled leather workers (who work on the roadside) will also get a one-time Rs 5,000 aid, adding that 11,722 families will be benefitted. “We will deposit the amount to the beneficiaries bank accounts through Dr Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industries Development Corporation,” he said. The state government has already announced Rs 5,000 assistance to dobhis, barbers, autorickshaw and cab drivers and is under pressure to extend the aid to potters, tailors, housemaids, tourist guides and photographers among others in the unorganized sector. An opposition delegation which met Yediyurappa on Friday said helping select groups would render injustice to other vulnerable groups. The CM reportedly assured the delegation that he would soon announce another package to help people in other professions including farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dole-for-cobblers-leather-workers/articleshow/75636344.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Three Covid-free districts battle virus spread again||Rajkot: The worst fears of authorities in districts of Saurashtra are coming true. Three districts, which had recently become Covid-free, are again battling the spread of virus, now due to influx of outsiders.On Friday, 14 including at least seven women who had come to Jamnagar from Ahmedabad tested positive for Covid-19. An 11-month-old boy, whose parents are from Kharva village of Dhrol, but returned from Ahmedabad, died at GG Hospital. The baby was admitted on Wednesday, but tested positive after death on Friday evening. Earlier, parents had refused to accept the body until the hospital tests their son for Covid, said official sources. Similarly, a 35-year-old man who came with a valid pass from Ahmedabad to Kodinar town of Gir-Somnath was also found infected. The woman had come to Jamnagar in the last couple of days after the state government permitted intra-state travel with valid passes. Since April first week there had been no positive cases in Jamnagar district and city. According to district officials, three women - aged 52 years, 20 years and 42 years - were caught by police entering Jamjodhpur town illegally. They all were coming from Ahmedabad and sent to government quarantine facility. A 27-year-old woman of Amardi Mevasa village near Jamjodhpur was also caught entering illegally in the district. Three other women had entered Jamnagar city with valid passes. In Kodinar, the 35 year old man tested positive on Thursday night and was kept in government quarantine facility. In Kutch, which had become Covid-free recently, a 22-year-old lady doctor, who came to Bhuj from Mumbai, tested positive on Friday. She had returned to Bhuj on May 5 with valid documents. She has now been shifted to the civil hospital. Earlier, seven out of the eight patients, had recovered while one had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-covid-free-districts-battle-virus-spread-again/articleshow/75634640.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Senior UP official dismissed from service for corruption||LUCKNOW: Assistant commissioner industries Sarvesh Kumar Dikshit has been dismissed from service after charges of corruption against him were found to be true. Dikshit was under suspension since the case against him was brought forward. Principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said the Lok Sewa Ayog had communicated its approval for the decision, post which the order was issued on Friday. Dikshit had been accused of illegally dividing industrial land in Banda and allocating it. Complaints of fraud in allotment of plots in industrial areas were also received against him by some industrialists. He was also accused of harassing industrialists while he was posted in Sitapur. “There were charges of irregularities, fraud and unacceptable behaviour against him after which he was suspended. When the charges against him were probed, they were found true and he has now been dismissed,” Sehgal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/senior-up-official-dismissed-from-service-for-corruption/articleshow/75637487.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ESI hospital gets nod for Covid-19 plasma trials||HYDERABAD: ESI Hospital at Sanathnagar have received permission to carry out plasma therapy trials for Covid- 19 patients along with the state-run Gandhi Hospital. ICMR officially accorded permission to both hospitals for six months. According to officials, ESI Hospital does not have any Covid-19 patients but has isolation wards with suspected cases. ESI will first have to get Covid-19 patients to begin the plasma trials. Doctors said elaborate procedures would be conducted before beginning plasma treatment. The patients are first counselled along with the donors, who have undergone Covid-19 treatment and got discharged. Certain pre-medical conditions of both have to be matched. Health minister Eatala Rajender said Gandhi Hospital does not have patients who need such treatment. But many donors are ready to give plasma after they were treated at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/esi-hosp-gets-nod-for-covid-plasma-trials/articleshow/75637489.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 9, 2020||Goa||Centre approves Rs 1.5k cr project report for IIT campus||Panaji: Industries minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that the government of India has already approved a detailed project report (DPR) for an investment of Rs 1,500 crore, spread over the next three years, for building an IIT campus at Guleli in Sattari. He said that a fruitful interaction was held with director, IIT Goa, B K Mishra, on Thursday, paving the way to set up a permanent campus for the institute. In 2014, the IIT was allotted to Goa, while a temporary campus housed at the Goa Engineering College (GEC) premises at Farmagudi, Ponda, became functional from July 2016. Rane said that in addition to the Rs 1,500 crore investment over three years, the following seven years would see an estimated investment of Rs 3,000 crore for the project. “This will pave the way for uplifting not only Sattari and Usgao, but the entire state of Goa, in a substantial way,” Rane said in his statement. The state has already received sanctioned documents for constructing the coveted institute. Rane, who was instrumental in bringing the project to Sattari after the original project site proposed in Canacona faced opposition, believes the IIT will get Goa on the country’s educational map. “Being one among the top (institutes) in the country, it will raise the standard of education, and nurture innovation and entrepreneurship. It will strengthen the ecosystem of the neighbouring areas and synthesize the knowledge of our youth,” Rane said. He added there would be at least 5,000 people living on campus, which in turn would boost the economy of Sattari and neighbouring areas in a big way. Baring a few industries, Sattari has been an agricultural economy. Mining was a source of livelihood for some over the past few decades, but with its stoppage, people have been compelled to look outside for jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-approves-rs-1-5k-cr-project-report-for-iit-campus/articleshow/75637509.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Now, write letters & send cards to corona warriors||PATNA: Writing letters may have become a passé, but thanks to the initiative of Patna postal division, many city residents are now thanking corona warriors by sending them personal handwritten letters or greeting cards. Senior postal superintendent of Patna division Hammad Zafar, who came up with this idea, said the initiative was launched this Tuesday. “The idea is to thank all those who are working during this pandemic and inculcate letter writing habit in people which vanished nearly 20 years ago,” he said. Hordes of letters, postcards and self-designed cards are being sent by the people to corona warriors after the launch of the initiative. While a Class VIII student of St Joseph’s High School, Aaditya Komar, made a card on the lines of uniform to thank cops, another Class X student, Aditya Raj, who lives in Kankarbagh, thanked doctors through his handmade card. Pavni, a Class VI student who lives in Gautam Nagar, has written a letter to employees of post office. Fourteen-year-old Vijay Kumar thanked corona warriors through his long handwritten letter. Mother of two young kids, Saba Parween, who lives Indrapuri locality, praised this initiative of Patna postal division. She said, “There was a time when we used to write letters to our cousins and relatives. I will make both my kids write letters to doctors and sanitation workers.” Zafar said so many letter letters are reaching different post offices. “I do not have a count, but officials of different post offices said they have received a large number of such letters. We will send the letters to the corona warrior concerned in a day or two.” This facility to send thanksgiving note will continue till May 16. People can send their letters to any post office falling under Patna division through the letter box. The letters should be addressed to Hammad Zafar, office of senior postal superintendent, Patna division, Bankipore head office, 5th floor, Patna-800004. “We will collect all the letters and cards and then send them to the person concerned,” added Zafar. Thanksgiving notes can be sent to doctors, health workers, officials of district administration, police personnel, civic body staff, people involved in distribution of medicines, bankers, post office employees, media people, fruit and vegetable vendors and grocery store owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-write-letters-send-cards-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/75634674.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Report kidney cases: Telangana govt to hospitals||HYDERABAD: Wary about a sharp spike in kidney patients testing positive for the novel coronavirus, the state government has asked the private hospitals to keep the health officials in the loop on those undergoing dialysis. According to highly-placed sources, the health department issued the instructions following a rise in the number of patients undergoing dialysis testing positive for Covid-19. Some of them have in fact died of the virus. “We are asking the hospitals to report such cases so that we can focus further on the origin of the virus infection, its spread and work out ways to curb it,” said a top department source. Sources said coronavirus tests on kidney patients and first contacts of the virus-infected patients are already being done. Nephrologists said patients undergoing dialysis in hospitals are more vulnerable to contract the virus. Dr Sri Bhushan, nephrologist at NIMS, said kidney patients have greater chances of catching the virus. “Also, they are at greater risk of facing death if they contract Covid- 19,” he said. Health minister Eatala Rajender said all the dialysis patients, who are first contacts for Covid-19 patients, would invariably be tested for the coronavirus. He also said that all the migrant labourers would be tested even if they display slight symptoms of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/report-kidney-cases-t-to-hosps/articleshow/75637500.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||4L diamond workers apply to go to Saurashtra||Surat: As mas exodus of diamond workers begins from Surat, the state-run Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation's (GSRTC) is facing an uphill task. This is because as many as 4 lakh people, majority of them diamond workers and merchants, have submitted online application with the GSRTC for booking buses in the last two days. If the figures provided by the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) is anything to go by, then whooping 12,000 applications have been received in last two days. Considering 30 passengers per application—GSRTC is taking bus bookings in the lot of 30 passenger per bus— 3.60 lakh people have applied for the GSRTC buses to go to Saurashtra and North Gujarat towns. Official sources said that 1,800 bookings have been confirmed and 55,000 diamond workers are expected to travel from Surat to different districts of Saurashtra region over the next two days. After the district administration approved the intrastate travel for workers from Wednesday, the GSRTC has operated 205 buses from Surat till date. About 90% of the buses were bound to Amreli and Bhavnagar, while the rest were operated towards Botad, Junagadh, Mehsana, Patan and Devbhoomi Dwarka. Talking with TOI, GSRTC’s divisional controller, Sanjay Joshi said, “There is a heavy rush of passengers towards Saurashtra. About 1,800 bookings have been confirmed, majority towards Amreli and Bhavnagar. As per the protocol and guidelines, we are allowing only 30 passengers per bus with capacity of 60. About 55,000 people are expected to travel in the next few days.” Joshi stated that 350 buses left for Amreli and Bhavnagar on Friday ferrying about 9,000 passengers. Explaining the booking process, Joshi said that the buses are booked by the group leaders and that they have to submit the names, address and identity cards of the co-passengers. Once the booking is confirmed, the buses are sent at the location mentioned in the booking form to pick up the passengers after their medical screening. Joshi said, “The buses are operated 24x7 to cater the huge travel demand of the people from Saurashtra” President of Surat Diamond Association, Babu Kathiriya said, “In the early days of lockdown, about 1.5 lakh people from Varachha and Katargam have already reached their hometowns. We are expecting about 8 lakh to reach Saurashtra before the lockdown ends on May 17.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4l-diamond-workers-apply-to-go-to-saurashtra/articleshow/75634658.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 crisis: Pharma sector misses $22 billion export target||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic hit pharma sector’s ambitions of clocking double-digit exports growth to touch a record $22 billion in financial year 2019-20, as a result of which exports grew only 7.57% to $20.58 billion from $19.13 billion in 2018-19, latest data by apex pharma exports promotion body Pharmexcil show. The sector, which was galloping at 11.5% cumulative growth rate in first three quarters of FY20 (April-December 2019), registered negative growth of nearly 3% in fourth quarter (Jan-March 2020) due to a steep 23.24% degrowth in March 2020, pulling down total exports growth to 7.57% for the fiscal. While exports grew 11.21% in first quarter, it slid to 8.69% in second quarter and speeded up to 14.64% in third quarter only to stumble in fourth quarter. According to Pharmexcil, while drug formulations and biologicals, which accounted for almost 72% of exports, showed 9.5% growth in FY2020, those of bulk drugs and drug intermediates, which is second largest exports category, degrew by 0.73%, pulling down overall performance. Meanwhile, vaccines and surgicals recorded 22% and 10.5% growth, respectively. “India, being dependent on China to an extent of 60-70% of its needs of bulk drugs, suffered disruption in supply chain with outbreak of Covid-19. Our imports of bulk drugs went down significantly in February. Combined with lockdown measures across countries and export restrictions on some products contributed to the situation of downturn in export growth,” Pharmexcil said. “Usually Indian pharma exports during February and March are quite brisk and to an extent of 22-23% of first 10 months (Apr-Jan) exports. Having seen good pace of exports in first three quarters and price stabilisation in the US, it was estimated that FY20 exports would reach $22 billion mark. However, Covid-19 impacted exports to certain extent and brought down the estimated growth projections, it said. India exported to 202 destinations in the fiscal, with North America accounting for 34% exports with an over 15% share. US accounted for 32.74% of total exports at $6.7 billion, with Africa coming second at 17% share, followed by Europe with 15% share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-crisis-pharma-sector-misses-22bn-export-target/articleshow/75636866.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Social media help residents beat the odds during lockdown||Mysuru: For thousands of city residents locked up in their homes, social media groups are coming handy. Whether it is for a visit to hospital or to arrange blood for the needy or to get some services, these groups have touched the lives of people in the past few weeks. Many groups in platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook, which were almost silent in the preceeding weeks, became active during the lockdown period. According to Sahana Ajit, a resident of Hebbal, who is part of several groups, the biggest advantage of these groups is that they give correct guidance. “Even if someone tries to mislead, other members used to alert. Medical services, blood donation and repair of household items like washing machine, water purifier etc were the main issues during the lockdown period. Many even helped needy families by highlighting their issues and connecting with blood donors etc,” she said. Samarth, a resident of Mysuru, who is now staying in Bengaluru, said he was able to ensure all the services to his aged parents who stay in Srinagar through these groups. “I wanted medicines and vegetables for my parents. These groups helped me with genuine contacts. But the users must be very careful as many times miscreants tries to mislead,” he said. Damodar Suvarna, admin of one such groups, said social media activities peaked after the lockdown was announced. “School- related topics, house hold repairs, medical emergency services are the major subjects discussed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/social-media-help-residents-beat-the-odds-during-lockdown/articleshow/75631390.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 9, 2020||India||Covid-19: New cases top 3k for 3rd day in a row, total nears 60k-mark||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 count was just around 300 short of the 60,000 mark late on Friday night, after new cases topped 3,000 for the third consecutive day with Maharashtra again adding over 1,000 to the tally. The infection continued to rage in Tamil Nadu as well, which reported 600 fresh cases, even as the case load remained high in Gujarat (390) and Delhi (338). Meanwhile, West Bengal and Odisha recorded their highest single-day counts with 130 and 51 new cases, respectively. Overall, 3,294 fresh cases were reported from the states in the past 24-hours, slightly lower than the count of the last two days. With this, India’s Covid-19 count has reached 59,691 —only 309 short of 60,000. The overall death toll too was just short of 2,000 at 1,983. Maharashtra, which recorded 1,089 new cases, also accounted for the day’s highest death toll of 37, of which 25 were from Mumbai alone. Of the 93 deaths reported from across the country, Gujarat recorded 24, followed by West Bengal (9), MP (8) and Rajasthan (4). Three deaths each were reported from UP and Tamil Nadu, two from Delhi and one each from Haryana, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir. Overall, Maharashtra has recorded the highest, 731, Covid-19 deaths followed by Gujarat which has recorded total 449 deaths. Both states are worst affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. The total Covid-19 tally in Gujarat is now at 7,403 as 390 more cases were recorded in 24 hours till 5pm on Friday. Local critical care experts have revealed that apart from the acute respiratory distress triggered by Covid-19, complications of severe thrombosis or abnormal blood clotting in lungs, heart, brain and other vital organs and hyper-inflammation triggered by Coronavirus is claiming lives in Gujarat. Top doctors from AIIMS including institute director Dr Randeep Guleria have been rushed to Ahmedabad to guide the state reeling under an unabated death march. In the single biggest jump of Covid-19 cases so far, Odisha recorded 51 positive cases, taking its total tally to 270. Most of the new positive cases are migrant workers who had returned from Gujarat, authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-new-cases-top-3k-for-3rd-day-in-a-row-total-nears-60k-mark/articleshow/75638746.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 9, 2020||Surat||Private bus owners suspend service||Surat: The private bus owners have suspended the intrastate travel services from Surat after the district administration allowed the GSRTC buses to ferry the passengers to different parts of the state. President of Surat Luxury Bus Owners Association, Dinesh Angadh said, “On Wednesday, about 60 private buses were operated to Bhavangar and Amreli. The decision to suspend service was taken after the administration allowed GSRTC buses to operate within the state.” Angadh added, “The travel fare in GSRTC buses is less than Rs 500, whereas we had fixed the price of Rs 1,200 for 500 kilometres and Rs 1,500 above 500 kilometres. The bus operators can’t bear losses by operating buses when the diesel prices have gone up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/private-bus-owners-suspend-service/articleshow/75634685.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs over 1,000 cases for 3rd day on trot, 25 deaths in Mumbai again||MUMBAI: For the third day in a row, Maharashtra recorded over 1,000 coronavirus cases in a 24-hour period. On Friday, the state added 1,089 cases, taking the total to 19,063. It recorded 37 deaths, its second highest death toll for a day, taking the overall fatalities to 731. In the last four days, Maharashtra has added 148 deaths, of which 101 have been in Mumbai alone. Mumbai continues to be the worst affected and reported its third highest tally of cases—748—to breach the 12,000 mark, with the total now at 12,142 cases. For the third consecutive day, Mumbai recorded 25 deaths, its third highest record, taking the total death toll in the city to 462. The case fatality rate of the state and city was 3.8%. CM Uddhav Thackeray said the number of beds and doctors in Mumbai were being increased.“I think of the lockdown as a speed- breaker. We have managed to slow down the spread of the virus, but we have not managed to break the chain,” he said. Of the 25 deaths in the city, 18 were of patients who had co-morbidities. 13 were men and 12 women. Three of the deaths were of those below 40 years old, 13 of those above 60 years old and nine deaths of those between 40 and 60. The neighbouring Thane city continued to add cases steadily, increasing the worry of the state administration. As many as 51 new cases were reported in Thane within 24 hours, taking the tally there to 611. Officials said the cases detected on Friday were of those who were suspected patients and had been kept in quarantine. Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner of the National Health Mission, said deaths and cases in Mumbai and its adjoining city Thane were seeing a rise. “It’s not exponential, but there is a steady rise. Measures are being taken to contain cases and experts from the state and Centre are helping out the BMC,” he said. Also, Kalyan-Dombivli witnessed a fresh jump of 27 patients, including 21 who work outside KDMC limits in essential services. With this, the number of patients there is 280, with 3 deaths. With the rising number of patients working in essential services outside the corporation’s limits, KDMC’s health department has appealed to such people to practise self-isolation at home after their return from work to avoid the spread of Covid-19. As social media was rife with posts that the BMC was not testing even close family members and neighbours of positive patients, the civic body said it was only following Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. “Only very close high-risk contacts of the positive cases can be tested once between 5-14 days of exposure or earlier if they become symptomatic. Else all contacts need to self-quarantine at home, or will be quarantined in an institution, if (they) reside in slum areas,” the BMC said in a statement. The BMC also tried to allay fears that beds were fast filling up, saying more quarantine centres were being created. A Sion doctor’s post that has since gone viral on social media however had reflected the bed situation that citizens had spoken about. He said new wards were filling up in a day’s time. Civic statistics show the BMC is seeing a minimum of 500-600 new admissions every day. The situation was still bad at BEST, where 8 more staffers, including 7 from the traffic wing, tested positive, while nine others were on oxygen for life support. The total number of cases in the undertaking is now 64, while 4 employees have succumbed so far. Thackeray on Friday said even as cases were increasing, the number of people getting discharged too was going up. “There are nearly 3,500 people who have been treated and discharged. This is a big number,” the CM said. A GRP cop attached to the technical department at the GRP commissioner’s office tested positive. His family members and colleagues in the technical department have been home- quarantined. Offices of the GRP commissioner and staff at Wadi Bunder were sanitised on Friday. Pune reported 10 deaths, and one death each was reported from Jalgaon and Amaravati city. (Inputs from Pradeep Gupta, Shrutika Sukhi and Somit Sen and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-logs-over-1000-cases-for-3rd-day-on-trot-25-deaths-in-city-again/articleshow/75637521.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 9, 2020||Mysuru||Govt determined to find the source of virus in Nanjangud firm: Shettar||Mysuru: Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said on Friday that the government is serious in finding the source of virus at Nanjangud pharma plant and will continue to investigate it from all angles. According to him, the government will get to the bottom of the case to find the truth. “We will find out how and who got infected first. Later everything will be revealed. The factory will not go anywhere (in the meantime),” he said. The government’s primary focus is on bringing down the positive cases in Mysuru and to ensure that all the positive persons are treated and discharged from the Covid Hospital, he said. When asked about reopening of the plant, he parried the question but said it will be decided at a state-level meeting. The minister, accompanied by district incharge minister S T Somashekar, held a meeting with various stakeholders over industrial growth in Mysuru in the wake of Covid crisis. He said the government would go slow on collection of tax from the industries if it cannot waive them off and indicated that the government will extend concession to the industries to get them back on their feet. He said the Centre is planning to extend financial assistance to small scale industries (SSIs) and asserted that PM Narendra Modi’s leadership in fighting the pandemic has enthused the financial market, which will help it rebound fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-determined-to-find-the-source-of-virus-in-nanjangud-firm-shettar/articleshow/75633229.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fund-starved NGOs feel the heat as scores continue to seek help||HYDERABAD: With an increasing number of people reaching out for help – largely essential commodities and medicines – NGOs in the city are starting to feel the pressure. Adding to the worry of many is the lack of job security that has left donors tightening their purse strings. They fear that the thinning financial support might make it difficult to meet the requirement on the ground, going forward. “At present, we are distributing anywhere between 200 and 250 packets of dry ration (each comprising 10 items) every day. While that is a considerable amount, the requirement is for 500 packets a day. We can deliver on that only if the cash flow improves,” said Arun Daniel Yellamaty, founder of Youngistaan Foundation, one of the many non-governmental organisations working relentlessly through the lockdown. “Though people in general have become more generous now – some even skipping a meal to help others – it is a struggle extending help to everybody in need," he added. For instance, Shaik Nayeem’s team at Kriya Sangh Society, which started with distributing 1,000 meals a day, soon after lockdown, is now serving 4,000 meals in areas such as Rasoolpura, Jawahar Nagar etc. But he says that the demand is for 6,000 to 7,000 meals. “Some poor people who managed the first few weeks with the little savings they had, have now exhausted their resources. So, even they are reaching out for help,” said Nayeem adding,  “But we are not being able to meet the requirement because the money we have is limited. Unlike earlier, not many people are forthcoming with donations, since they too are under financial pressure.” It is for this reason that Fareesa Khan, vice-president of Safa Society, is urging every individual to step up and do their bit – in which ever small way possible. “At a time when salaries are being cut, people are being laid off, funding is certainly going to hit a plateau soon. And given the situation on ground, we have to provide relief to the poor for a very long time. That's why it is important for everybody to contribute,” said Khan whose organisation raised Rs 2.5 crore through crowdfunding. The team used its resources to offer help to 22.75 lakh citizens across the country. “ But this is not the end. We have to sustain this...and that’s going to be the challenge,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-starved-ngos-feel-the-heat-as-scores-continue-to-seek-help/articleshow/75637515.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||18-year-old enters Satara without pass, tests +ve for Covid-19||Kolhapur: An 18-year-old man, who had travelled from Mumbai to Satara on April 27 without a pass, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, according to the Satara district health department. He was booked for violating the lockdown order and was kept under institutional quarantine at Khavali. His health is stable and he is being treated as per the protocols. Meanwhile, on Friday, one more Covid-19 patient was identified at Karad. The Covid-19 patient is a close contact of a person who had tested positive earlier. On Friday, six Covid-19 patients were discharged from Karad-based Krishna Medical College after their recovery. They were admitted to the hospital on April 23 and tested negative after their isolation period on Friday. With this, the total number of recovered patients at Satara has reached 20, of which 12 of them have recovered from Krishna Medical College, while eight were from the Satara-based district hospital. Close to 300 throat swab samples tested negative on Friday. The total number of Covid-19 cases has now reached 115 at Satara, of which 93 are active cases. While 20 have recovered and two Covid-19 related casualties. Nine micro-containment zones across Satara, Karad Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has issued an order enforcing nine new micro-containment zones across cities in Satara and Karad. Around six micro-containment zones are in and around Satara city, while three are around Karad city. Singh in his order said that the essentials will be delivered at the doorsteps of the residents in these micro-containment zones and the authorities have been asked to manage the same accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/18-year-old-enters-satara-without-pass-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75635853.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 9, 2020||Surat||26 fresh cases in Surat city||Surat: Twenty-six fresh Covid-19 cases were reported and 26 patients discharged in the city on Friday. Eighteen coronavirus cases were reported from Covid-19 hotspot Limbayat zone alone. Of the total 808 Covid-19 cases in the city, this zone alone accounts for 336. Meanwhile, toll due to Covid-19 has reached 37 in the city. Bismillah Khan Pathan, 65, a resident of Limbayat, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus in New Civil Hospital (NCH) since May 6, died on Friday. He also had diabetes. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said total number of discharged patients has now gone up to 400 in the city. “Surat’s recovery rate of 49.5 % is best in the country. More and more people are being discharged from hospitals upon fully recovering from the virus,” Pani said.“As a part of island strategy for Limbayat zone, we have started massive health surveillance there to find out suspected cases of coronavirus and people suffering from acute respiratory infection (ARI) so that we can get them treated at the earliest. We request citizens to cooperate with the civic body’s health teams and provide necessary health information about family members. Some people are not providing necessary information. Late admission of patients in hospitals leads to fatality. Early diagnosis will help save people’s lives,’’ the municipal commissioner said. “We have asked Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) to remain shut and that vegetable vendors will not do business from Friday late night until May 14 to contain spread of coronavirus. However, we have decided to allow mango growers to directly sell mangoes to consumers in the city. But people will have to purchase mangoes only in boxes,” Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26-fresh-cases-in-surat-city/articleshow/75634758.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid +ve woman gives birth to boy||Hyderabad: Gandhi Hospital doctors performed caesarean section, helping a 27-year-old coronapositive woman deliver a baby boy on Friday. The entire family of the woman was infected with Covid-19. The baby will be tested for coronavirus on Saturday. According to hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao, the mother and child are doing well.The condition of the baby is being closely monitored. The surgery was headed by Dr Mahalaxmi. Incidentally, this is the first time that a Covid-19 positive woman delivered a baby in the state.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-ve-woman-gives-birth-to-boy/articleshow/75637529.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||Vaishali youth beaten to death by girlfriend's kin||PATNA: An 18-year-old youth was held captive and subsequently beaten to death by the family members of a minor girl in a case of honour killing at a village in Vaishali district early on Friday. The incident took place at Mai village under Bidupur police station around 1 am when the victim, Rajiv Kumar, was found in a room at his girlfriend’s house, police said. Enraged, the family members of the girl tied his hands and feet and thrashed him with sticks and iron rods till he fell unconscious. As the news about the brutal assault spread, his relatives rushed to the spot and tried to rescue him but failed. They then informed the Bidupur police and the local mukhiya. The mukhiya’s husband Ranvir Rai, who reached first, said the attackers were so aggressive that they refused to listen to him and kept on thrashing the youth. “They fled the spot when the police arrived and the injured boy was taken to the primary health centre (PMC) at Bidupur for treatment,” he added. The SHO, Amrendra Kumar, said, “The boy succumbed to his injuries during treatment at Hajipur Sadar hospital on Friday morning. The body was later handed over to the family after post mortem examination.” The victim’s brother Roshan Kumar alleged that his brother was deliberately called by the girl at her house around midnight. He also disclosed the names of the culprits to the investigating officer. The SHO said one suspect has been detained for interrogation. “Love affair is stated to be the reason behind the incident. Additional armed force police has been deployed at the village to ward off any untoward incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-youth-beaten-to-death-by-girlfriend-kin/articleshow/75634750.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records 2 deaths, 14 more +ve cases||Kolhapur: In what could be the worrying cause for Solapur’s rising number of Covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, the district has recorded two more deaths along with 14 fresh cases on Friday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Solapur has reached 13. The two deceased people were admitted to the Solapur civil hospital. The first deceased was a 56-year-old woman from Shastri Nagar, one of the major hotspots of the contagion in the city. She was admitted to the civil hospital on April 25. She tested positive for Covid-19 on April 26 and passed away on Friday at 5.20 am while undergoing treatment. The second deceased, a 76-year-old man from the Rangbhavan area of the city, was admitted on May 5. He tested positive for Covid-19 on May 7 and succumbed to the infection on Friday morning at 2 am. Of the 14 fresh cases identified on Friday, seven were of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), stated a report from the Solapur health department. The total number of cases with this new addition has gone up to 196 with 111 male and 85 female, including 13 deaths. The actual active number of cases is 146. As many as 29 patients have recovered from the contagion. Till date, as many as 2,874 samples have been tested, of which 2,469 tested negative for Covid-19, 196 tested positive and around 209 samples are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-2-deaths-14-more-ve-cases/articleshow/75635921.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Labour reforms in lockdown spark praise and protests||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s recent labour reforms have drawn mixed response. Demanding immediate withdrawal of the “anti-labour initiatives”, the RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the left-wing Centre of Indian trade Union (CITU ) and Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) have registered a strong protest against these ‘reforms’. The industrialists, on the other hand, have welcomed it. Speaking with TOI, the BMS state general secretary, KP Singh said, “Whether it is pay cuts or long duty hours, these are anti-poor decisions and have been taken only to appease the industrialists. These are pro -capitalist pro-industry initiatives. I talked directly to the CM and urged him to withdraw them. Our central leadership will organise a meeting in Delhi and will decide the next course of action.” In a joint statement, general secretary of CITU in Madhya Pradesh, Pramod Pradhan, state president of INTUC, RD Tripathi, state vice president of All India trade union congress( AITUC) Roop Singh Chouhan, general secretary of Bank employees’ association, VK Sharma,and joint secretary of insurance employees association, Pushan Bhattacharya, termed the new labour initiatives of the state as ‘jungle raj’ and a permission to ‘loot the poor.’ “Following the guidelines of social distancing, 10-15 minutes demonstrations will be held across the state on May 11 to oppose the anti -labour decisions,” reads the statement. State chief of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Dinesh Patidar, however, thanked the CM for the initiative. He issued a statement, which said, “The reforms will further strengthen ease of doing business in the state and will play a key role in attracting new investments. They will also smoothen the operations of the current industries. Our workforce will benefit from these measures and there will be huge scope in creation of new job opportunities. The CM has also laid emphasis on MSMEs with provisions that are beneficial for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cms-labour-reforms-are-anti-poor-trade-unions/articleshow/75635913.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Training locals an option but it will take a long time, claim experts||Kolhapur: The shortage of workers in major economic sectors such as construction, industry, and agriculture is going to slow down the district economy for over a year, claim experts. Around 70 percent of the workforce in the construction sector are of the migrant workers while 30 percent in industry and 20 percent in the agriculture sector respectively. Over 15,000 migrant workers are registered to leave for their respective home state soon. Mahesh Yadav former president of CREDAI Kolhapur said, "We expect many workers, who have not registered, will also go back home. However, they may have made up their mind not to return till the situation improves. Already the construction of 50 projects which were stuck due to lockdown has been resumed. However, the developers are told to use the workers, who are on-site only. We are hoping that after due precautions the workers are made to get back to work instead of sending them to their homes. Otherwise the construction activity which provide large employment will come to a standstill for over one year.” As per the primary discussions with the district authorities the idea to train the locals for the construction-related activities have also come up. However, it will take a long time, says Yadav. "The developers are penalised if the project is not ready within the time frame. Recently, the real estate regulatory authority has extended the deadlines for completion of the projects by three months, we are hopeful that the deadlines will be extended by another six months considering the shortage of workers," added Yadav. So far, 700 industrial units are made operational with the help of 12,000 workers around 30 percent of which are migrant workers. "The district administration should step up efforts to make the transport possible to the workers to the industrial units. If they go back and then do not return the industrial production will stop and affect the local economy in turn," said an industrialist. As per agriculture experts, the workers during monsoon season are required in the agri-driven industries and allied services such as transportation. Non-availability of the workers will affect the incomes of the farmers since if the agri-industries stops the farmers will not get the price for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/training-locals-an-option-but-it-will-take-a-long-time-claim-experts/articleshow/75635929.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Patna||29 new cases in Bihar, 49 recover in a single day||PATNA: Bihar saw the highest number of Covid-19 patients recover in a 24-hour span with 49 people being declared free from coronavirus even as 29 new cases, including five BMP personnel in Patna, were reported on Friday. The BMP men were tested after a recently retired jawan tested positive on Thursday. The total number of cases in Patna is now 52 while the state total has gone up to 579 with 267 recoveries, five deaths and 307 active cases. Sharing the news of the large number of recoveries, state health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted, “Today we got a good news that 21 corona positive people have recovered. In the past 24 hours, 49 people have defeated corona. Now total recovery cases have reached 267. It is 47% of total number of cases.” Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health), said, “This recovery data shows that virus is not invincible. There is no need to panic and we will come out of it.” He added that most people who have been infected are young and easily fought the virus. As per information shared by Sanjay, the maximum number of cases on Friday were reported from Samastipur with six people testing positive. Four other cases were from Darbhanga, including three from Biraul block and one from Sobhan village, which falls under Darbhanga block. Khagaria also reported four positive cases, one each from Thutti and Malpa and two others from Chandpura Khurd locality. Two cases were reported from Saharsa, one each from Balwa Bazar and Saurab Bazar. Nalanda also reported two new cases on Friday. Shikarganj in Belaghat in East Champaran, Koriyanda in Banka, Nathnagar in Bhagalpur and Chandpura in Begusarai also reported one case each. Sanjay said most of these cases were of migrants who had recently returned to Bihar. “All six people who had tested positive in Samastipur had returned from Kolkata and one from Khagaria had come from Delhi. Even those from Supaul and Saharsa have come from outside Bihar. While four positive people in Darbhanga got infected from a positive person who had come from outside state,” said Sanjay. In a separate tweet, Sanjay posted that 10 licences were given by his department in the past month for the manufacture of sanitizers in the state. He said prior to Covid-19 pandemic, there were no sanitizer manufacturing units in Bihar. “In the last month, health dept issued 10 licenses for the manufacture of sanitisers. Hope it will increase availability and lower the prices,” read a part of his tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/29-new-cases-in-state-49-recover-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75635189.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Request to extend grant to all lawyers||HYDERABAD: Telangana Bar council member B Konda Reddy on Friday met advocate general BS Prasad and urged him to remove the condition that only those lawyers with less than seven years’ experience would receive financial assistance as part of the Rs 25 crore grant scheme from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. “The CM said he wants to help all the junior and poor lawyers who are in distress due to the lockdown. Hence please help all the needy advocates,” he said in his representation. The advocate General is the chairman of the trust entrusted with the task of reaching out to the advocates. Advocate clerks too will be extended financial assistance under this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/request-to-extend-grant-to-all-lawyers/articleshow/75637544.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Families of new Covid-19 cases will be in home quarantine||BHUBANESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will not create containment zones in Surya Nagar, Mancheswar and VSS Nagar from where three more Corona positive cases were reported on Thursday. BMC officials said instead of containment zone, they will ensure home quarantine for the family members of the infected persons. The infected persons have been sent to the Covid hospital. According to new quarantine guidelines, the family members of the Covid positive will be in home isolation for 21 days. “During this period, active surveillance will be carried out,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. On April 22, the BMC removed the containment tag from three localities - Surya Nagar, Bomikhal and Satya Nagar. All the three localities reported 30 positive cases then when the total number of cases were 46 in the city with 18 being from Bomikhal alone. So far, the city has reported 50 positive cases out of which 16 are active cases. The BMC commissioner said the latest case reported from Surya Nagar is related to an old case. “The contact tracing of other two positive cases are being done. Since the three cases are isolated ones and in three different localities, we thought home quarantine will be sufficient,” Chaudhury added, while informing that swab samples of close family members have been taken. On Wednesday, the BMC re-launched the household survey to find out whether anyone has returned from other states hoodwinking the officials. With 16 active cases, the city is now is red zone though rest of Khurda is being treated as orange zone. The BMC said despite three more positive cases, all shops, including the standalone ones and located within residential complexes except multi-brand and single-brand malls have been allowed to open. Besides, shops that repair and service electrical and electronic appliances, including air conditioners, motor garages, tyre shops, battery shops and lubricant shops have been asked to open. The government will also allow courier and home delivery of food besides book stores. The offices of big business establishments and industries have been asked to resume with 33% employee strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/families-of-new-cases-will-be-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/75634782.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Man held for theft at Margao station||MARGAO: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) nabbed a thief attempting to rob items from a parked rake generator power car of the Konkan Kanya Express at the Margao railway station. Shekhar Beedu Gouda, 28, a resident of Malbhat, Margao, and native of Kumta, Karnataka, was found inside the coach and in possession of a hammer, rod, knife and ladder when he was nabbed. He was then handed over to the Konkan Railway police who registered a case against Gouda under provisions of IPC and the Railways Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-held-for-theft-at-margao-station/articleshow/75637562.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Surat||Tapi, Valsad, Dang districts fight off corona||Surat: Baring one case from the district, which is still under treatment, Tapi in South Gujarat is almost Covid-19 free. The only Covid-19 positive patient in the district now is admitted to hospital in Ahmedabad and a blood cancer patient. He tested positive in an Ahmedabad hospital, said chief district health officer (CDHO), Dr Harshad Patel. On Friday, 32-year-old Hiren Chaudhari, a resident of Kalamkui village in Valod taluka of Tapi district, who had tested positive on April 25 at a referral hospital in Mandvi town of Surat district, got discharged from the hospital. Chaudhari is a health worker with Surat district health department. On the other hand, Dang district too is getting better with the second positive patient on the recovery path as her two tests came negative. She too will be discharged soon. Of the three positive cases, all nurses, two have recovered, while one is under treatment now. Similar is the case with Valsad district, where only one Covid-19 positive case is under treatment. Earlier, Bharuch has cleaned its Covid slate on Thursday with no active cases at present. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-valsad-dang-districts-fight-off-corona/articleshow/75634786.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Goons attack cops during robbery bid at petrol pump||BHOPAL: In another attack on police reported in the city, three history-sheeters allegedly attacked cops when they reached a petrol pump near Gandhi Medical College (GMC) in Koh-e-Fiza on Thursday midnight after getting information about the robbery attempted by the accused. A constable, posted at Shahjehanabad police station, narrowly escaped a stab wound as the knife got stuck in his trouser which was torn off in the attack. The videos of the incident caught by CCTV and passerbys went viral on social media on Friday. Additional force from Koh-e-Fiza police station and nabbed one of the accused while his two accomplices managed to run away. Koh-e-Fiza police registered an attempt to loot case and other relevant charges against the accused on complaint filed by victim petrol pump employee and launched a manhunt to nab the absconding accused. CSP Nagendra Pateria said that complainant Hasan Ali, 50, works at a petrol pump on Hamidia main road. Around 11.30 pm he was sitting at the cash counter inside the office while his colleague Asif was outside. Accused Salman reached the spot brandishing a knife in his hand and started asking for money. Salman’s brother Danish and friend Asif mota also reached there. Someone informed police after which head constable Sylvester Tigga and a constable reached the spot but the accused attacked them too. Constable Santosh Singh happened to pass from the spot on his bike. He came to the rescue of cops.The accused attacked Singh too and he narrowly escaped a stab wound as the knife tore off his trouser. Additional force was sent from Koh-e-Fiza police station and Salman was arrested while two others managed to run away. CSP Pateria said that Salman has been arrested and he has around two dozen cases registered against him. His brother Danish and friend Asif alias Mota too are historysheeters. Police have paraded Salman in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/goons-attack-cops-during-robbery-bid-at-petrol-pump/articleshow/75635934.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||HC raps Telangana govt over low Covid-19 tests, says it’ll give a wrong picture||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of the government’s decision to conduct fewer Covid-19 tests, the Telangana high court on Friday wondered how it would get a true picture of the spread of the virus in the state. The court was also upset with the government for directing doctors not to collect blood samples from dead persons and not conduct Covid-19 tests on them. Directing the government to explain the logic behind its decisions, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy drew parallels with how Covid-19 testing is being done in a powerful nation such as the United States. The CJ recalled that when one of the Navy personnel in the US President’s security team was diagnosed with novel coronavirus, President (Donald) Trump himself was subjected to Covid-19 tests twice. “When health experts all over the world are calling for more Covid-19 tests, why are we restricting them here,” he wondered. “This under-testing will give us a wrong picture of the status of the disease and its spread,” the CJ said while hearing a PIL filed by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi. The bench will hear the case again on May 14. Questioning the government for conducting diagnostic tests only on those displaying symptoms of Covid-19, the CJ said: “If a person is diagnosed with Covid-19, his family members too should undergo the tests. It is not appropriate to say that the tests will be conducted only on those who display symptoms of Covid-19.” Taking umbrage at the government’s thinking, the CJ said: “If we do not do enough tests, then we are only fooling ourselves.” The bench made it clear in a video-conference hearing that it was raising these doubts after going through news reports. “Same is the case with tests on bodies. If we do not know the reason for the death, then the chances of (our) containment efforts succeeding will become less,” the bench said. It further sought to know, “Why are the health authorities directing the doctors to not collect blood samples from the dead and not conduct Covid-19 tests on them.” It pointed out that WHO had nowhere said that only those with symptoms should be tested. “Mere quarantine of family members is of no use if you do not test them at all.” To this, advocate General BS Prasad told the bench that the government was following all the norms prescribed by the Union health ministry and ICMR. However, Chikkudu Prabhakar, counsel for the petitioner, argued that the government was not conducting enough tests despite declaring several areas as red zones and 32 containment areas in Hyderabad alone. Quoting the guidelines of WHO, he said that Covid-19 tests should be conducted on all the people residing in such zones. “This should be done in a massive way to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he contended. It was at this point, the bench directed the AG to furnish to the court details of containment zones along with population particulars in each zone. “Under-testing coupled with no tests on the bodies will only result in juggling of statistics pertaining to the number of Covid-19 patients in the state,” the bench said and posted the case to May 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-t-over-low-covid-tests-says-itll-give-a-wrong-picture/articleshow/75636920.cms||M Sagar Kumar
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Heritage tag for 100-year-old trees||LUCKNOW: The state government’s effort to identify ‘heritage’ trees has restarted after the work to profile such trees in every district was hit due to the lockdown in March. “We have received online entries from almost every forest division,” said sources. So far, it is only the Parijaat tree in Barabanki, a Banyan tree near Lucknow and Mother Dussehri tree in Kakori that is famous as ancient trees in the state. But even they are not recognised as ‘heritage’ trees. The ‘heritage’ tree tag will entitle such trees to an elaborate conservation plan by the state biodiversity board. A government order has directed district administrations and local authorities to compile an exhaustive list of trees that have survived four human generations (considering one generation is of at least 75 years) or are more than 100 years old and have religious, mythological or historical connect. “Once we will receive entries we will verify them at the local level as many of these entries are sent by local people and groups. After that we will sent a proposal for the ‘heritage’ tree to the biodiversity board,” the sources said. The first-of-its-kind initiative in UP will help identify, locate and mark revered trees that have stood the test of time and so long preserved only in folklores. Each entry has to be backed by a thorough survey. “Trees that have stopped reproducing or are near-threatened also fit the bill as do species that have been discovered for the first time or are endemic in nature,” said the guidelines. Trees that are a living testimony to historical incidents or bear a connect with some renowned public figure or memorial may make the cut too. Besides local and district authorities, private institutions that have such trees on their premises can send in proposals through divisional forest officers as well. Mother trees, that have propagated a variety, like the Dussehri tree in Kakori, can become UP’s heritage. Trees that have assumed special qualities other than the ones associated with the species would be conserved too. “One of the important objectives is to tell people in general about the tree so that they can develop a bond. Heritage trees cannot be axed or translocated,” a source said, adding that the biodiversity board would seek help from the National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) for identification and conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/heritage-tag-for-100-year-old-trees/articleshow/75637560.cms||Neha Shukla
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Village mutes lockdown woes with loudspeakers||RAJKOT: The biggest bane of the lockdown is the total lack of entertainment which is making people restless and tensed. But welcome to Sanjanasar, a village located 18km from the temple town Palitana in Bhavnagar district, which is keeping its population of 2,000 not only happy, but productive too. Here’s how. As soon as the nationwide lockdown was announced the village panchayat hit upon an idea to kill two birds with one stone. It installed a public announcement system in the entire village, through which it will keep people entertainment and also disseminate important information during the lockdown period. Twelve speakers were installed across the village at the cost of Rs 1.1 lakh which were connected to the panchayat office from where it could provide important information from time to time. Even villagers contributed Rs 40,000 for the system, while the remaining amount was borne by the taluka panchayat. Soon, this became a major source of wholesome entertainment for people. Mornings began with the system waking people up with ‘Prabhatiya’ — with bhajans, folk songs, among other popular hymns keeping the people refreshed during their daily chores. Throughout the day, the panchayat broadcasts Gujarati movie songs, Lok Dayro besides religious sermons too which lessens the boredom of staying indoors. Pravin Gohil, a teacher in the village, said that the public announcement system created by the people with the aim of ‘Sarvajan Sukhay Sarvajan Hitay’ has been providing guidance, information and wholesome entertainment to the residents. Talking to TOI, sarpanch of the village, Vikas Barad said, “People are thoroughly enjoying the lockdown period. Many have told me they love to listen to the ‘Prabhatiya’ while milking their cows in the morning or while carrying out other routine chores. We are using the system also to spread useful information to the people including news about ration, seeds for sowing and also the importance od maintaining social distancing.” Vishnu Vyas a trader said that it is through the system that villagers and traders are getting information when to open shops and what shops will be allowed to remain open at specific hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mikes-keep-villagers-humming-in-lockdown/articleshow/75634810.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal railway division comes to aid of migrants||BHOPAL: Migrant labourers coming to Bhopal from other states have complained that they didn’t get proper food and water during their train journey, but Bhopal railway division has gone all out to provide sufficient food and water to the migrants in trains that are passing through the division. IRCTC has provided around 28,500 food packets and equal number of water bottles for the migrants in 24 Shramik trains. On an average, around 1,100 migrants are travelling in each train. DRM Borwanker said that 16,450 food packets and water bottles were distributed at Itarsi station in 24 Shramik Special trains passing through Bhopal Division from May 2 to May 7.  Similarly, 3600 food packets and water bottles were given at Bhopal station and 8,450 food packets and equal number of water bottles were distributed at Bina station. DRM said that Bhopal division is providing food packets to every migrant passing through trains even when they are not stopping at its major stations. “We are doing it to ensure smooth journey of travellers passing through Bhopal division,” said Borwanker. He added that distribution of food and water will continue in trains not stopping in Bhopal division stations. According to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, it has been decided to run Shramik Special trains from May 2, so that the migrant workers and other people stranded at various places due to lockdown can be sent to their hometowns. These special trains are being run from point to point at the request of the respective state governments as per standard protocol for sending and receiving stranded persons across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-railway-division-comes-to-aid-of-migrants/articleshow/75635954.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Pregnant woman dies en route Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A pregnant women from Rangareddy district died while being sent to Hyderabad in an ambulance. The 24-year-old woman was admitted at a hospital in Parigi for delivery. But she was asked to go to a hospital in Tandur, from where she was further referred to a hospital in Hyderabad. However, she died near Moinabad in the ambulance, before reaching the city. Her relatives took her body to Parigi hospital and protested. The district authorities have assured the relatives of investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-dies-en-route-hyd/articleshow/75637566.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown disrupts plans of non-custodial parents||Thiruvananthapuram: Kiran (named changed) was longing to meet his five-year-old son during his summer holidays. At the time of divorce, Kiran’s estranged wife got the custody of the child, a toddler then. Kiran, usually uses the period - around 12 days each during April and May - as the best time to develop a bonding with his only son. His parents too long for the arrival of their only grandson. However, lockdown has disrupted all their plans. Kiran is not alone. Several persons, who have only visitation rights over their kids, said that they were losing their only opportunity to spend quality time with their kids. Apart from weekends, Onam and Christmas holidays, summer vacation is often the only time when non-custodial parents get more time to spend with their kids. Parents get 12-45 days depending upon court order during the vacation. The parents were waiting for the lockdown to end. Now, family court in Thrissur has ordered that such cases will be taken up after May 18. Advocate J Sandhya said that cases of custodial rights of kids of estranged parents are pending as the courts are hearing only emergency bail pleas. “It is a sensitive issue. The court will start hearing such cases after lockdown,” she said. Another parent, who does not wish to be named, said that he wishes that courts would extend time period of custody after lockdown as a compensation for their loss of time. “In my case, my child is staying only 3km away from my house. I as well as my parents were waiting to see him. I had taught him cycling and swimming during the previous vacations. I use the vacation time to spend some productive time with my child. I am filing an RTI with court to know whether I could get more time to compensate for the time I lost,” he said. Another parent opined that from his experiences, majority parents with permanent custody of their children have not handed over children for interim custody during vacation citing spread of Covid and lockdown. “In majority of cases, whether it is mother or father who has permanent custody often tend to discourage any option of the children to meet the other parent,” he said. “Following closure of their schools, I had approached court on March 16 seeking interim custody of my children. The order directed to hand over children on April 6. Now, I am not getting custody even though there is relaxation in lockdown in Thrissur,” he said, adding that he could not approach court as it is not hearing such cases now. “Kids are often an option to negotiate between estranged couples. We don’t get them over phone or video call,” said a parent over phone from Palakkad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-disrupts-plans-of-non-custodial-parents/articleshow/75636915.cms||Jisha Surya
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||4 discharged in Bhavnagar||Rajkot: Four persons were discharged from the Sir T hospital in Bhavnagar after they recovered from the Covid-19 infection on FridayAccording to Bhavnagar district administration, those discharged include Arbaz Kureshi (22), a resident of Diwanpara road; Kumar Vora (42) of Geeta Chowk; Ruksana Sheikh (45) of Sanghediya Bazar and 22-year-old Yasin Dasadia. A total of 29 patients have recovered in Bhavnagar while six have succumbed to the virus infection during the treatment. Meanwhile, A 62-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus on Friday in Bhavnagar. The Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation has started screening of vegetable vendors and grocery shop owners to prevent them becoming ‘super spreaders’. On Friday, the civic body screened 912 vegetable vendors and grocery shop owners. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-discharged-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75634826.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Shekhawat, Congress workers spar over corona crisis||JODHPUR: A verbal spat broke out between Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Congress workers of Jodhpur over corona management. The blame game between the two parties has taken citizens by surprise. Shekhawat is being targeted by Congress leaders and MLAs consistently for being absent from Jodhpur and issuing press releases one after another sitting in the comfort of his home in Delhi, while Jodhpur administration and chief minister Ashok Gehlot are under constant attack from Shekhawat for spurt in Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur. In a statement, Shekhawat again attacked Gehlot for not taking serious steps to contain the spread in Jodhpur holding him responsible for playing politics of appeasement. Referring to the allegations of Gehlot against central government for not releasing funds to states, Shekhawat said adequate budget has been released for the state, but the state government has not utilised that budget properly. He flayed the district and police administration for not responding to his calls and termed this practice to be quite unfortunate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shekhawat-cong-workers-spar-over-corona-crisis/articleshow/75636945.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Won’t allow uranium mining||Hyderabad: Former MP V Hanumantha Rao of the Congress on Friday visited Amrabad forest area with locals expressing fears over the government again starting uranium exploration works. He assured the locals that Congress won’t allow uranium exploration works to be taken up. The Congress leader found fault with the police for not allowing him to go to the tribal villages in the forest area and also stopping his media conference mid-way. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-wont-allow-uranium-mining/articleshow/75637580.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Jagannath temples in state to follow Puri protocol||BHUBANESWAR: A day after the Centre approved the state government’s proposal to start building the chariots for the Puri Rath Yatra — scheduled for June 23 — other prominent Jagannath temples in the state, too, have decided to commence the construction work. However, the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) temple in Bhubaneswar is yet to take a call on whether to start the work. “We will follow the decision taken for Puri and accordingly start the chariot work in Keonjhar. The sub-collector of Keonjhar, who heads the Baladevjew temple, will follow the protocol of the Puri temple,” Keonjhar district collector Ashish Thakare said. The chariot in Keonjhar is 72ft high and is considered the tallest in the state. The chariot work at Baripada in Mayurbhanj district is scheduled to start on Saturday. Revered as Dwitiya Shreekhetra, the Rath Yatra of the Haribaldev Jew temple there is unique for its pulling of Devi Subhadra’s chariot by women alone. “We had consecrated the logs on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on April 26. We were in two minds about the work. After the Centre’s nod for Puri, we have decided to begin building the chariots from Saturday. The carpenters have already been communicated to join the work,” Basant Kumar Sethi, sub-collector of Baripada and executive officer of the temple, said. The authorities of the Baladevjew temple in Kendrapada and the Jagannath temple in Koraput, regarded as Tulasi Khetra and Sabar Srikhetra, respectively, are also expected to start the work within a day or two, an official source said. The state government has asked the district administrations to enforce social distancing norms and other Covid-related precautions at the chariot construction sites. This apart, the government has said the administrations would have to immediately stop the chariot work in their jurisdictions if cancels the Rath Yatra in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the Rath Yatra of the Iskcon temple in Bhubaneswar is an annual show-stealer, the authorities are yet to take a call on the chariot work. “Our senior functionaries will discuss the issue and soon take a decision,” Radhakanta Das, the temple’s spokesperson in Bhubaneswar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/jagannath-temples-in-state-to-follow-puri-protocol/articleshow/75634833.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sanvordem locals protest ore transit||MARGAO: Enraged over unbridled mining transportation through the village, a group of locals from Capxem, near Sanvordem, marched to the local office of a major mining firm and demanded an explanation over the steep rise in the movement of mining trucks from its mine along the Kalay–Cuddegal–Sanvordem–Capxem route. Holding the firm guilty of blatant violation of all mining transportation rules, villagers demanded that the firm reduce the number of trips of mining trucks to 650 per day. They claimed that the firm transported a mammoth 1,500 truck trips of ore on Friday. The villagers have warned of taking to the streets in protest if the firm fails to heed their demand. Sources said that the density of mining traffic along the South Goa’s mining belt has increased over the last one week with as many as 10 mining firms carrying out mining transportation from their mines to the Capxem jetty. What has particularly irked the locals is the fact that not a single policeman was found manning the mining traffic on Wednesday when the traffic congestion created bottlenecks at various points throughout the day. This was in stark contrast when police provided security cover to Fomento to transport its ore when it resumed its transportation over a week ago, with more than 200 policemen standing guard at every several metres along the same stretch. Locals pointed out that the unrestrained movement of mining trucks along this road, which has witnessed scores of fatal accidents involving mining trucks, coupled with enormous dust pollution has been posing serious threat to the lives and health of the locals and other road users, particularly to pedestrians and two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanvordem-locals-protest-ore-transit/articleshow/75637614.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Indore||Labour reforms draw flak from trade unions||INDORE: A slew of labour reforms proposed by state government have not gone well with trade unions claiming that these amendments will create friction in industry-labour relations. Trade unions held a meeting on Friday to discuss consequences of amendments made by chief minister Shivraj Chouhan in Factories Act, Madhya Pradesh Industrial Relations Act and Industrial Disputes Act. Relaxation to Madhya Pradesh Industrial Relations Act has drawn flak from trade unions, planning to collaborate different trade platforms and submit a memorandum to state government on Monday. Shyam Sunder Yadav, general secretary, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), Madhya Pradesh said, “Regular inspection of industries is very important to keep an eye on safety measures. But relaxations on inspection at small units may result in accidents. Amendments related to number of workers in any industry is again against the rights of workers as even a single worker can not be left deprived.” Under the Factory Act, state government has given exemption to factories from inspection for a period of three months and employers will be allowed to go for a third party inspection of their factories. Trade unions claimed amendments to MP Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1961 will snatch powers from workers and trade unions. Rudra Pal Yadav, general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indore district, “Government has drafted a pro industrialist’s policy in the wake of pandemic COVID19. All the measures and amendments stand against workers from increased shift hours to discontinuation of welfare fund.” Trade unions have opposed 12-hour shift from the earlier 8-hour shift stating this will lead to harassment of workers who will be forced to work overtime. Trade unions also opposed discontinuation of MP labour Welfare Fund under which workers and employers were contributing some amount on yearly basis and the same was deducted in need of social causes such as marriages and scholarship. Though industries have favoured the changes made on labour laws. Advocate Girish Patwardhan said, “The government is taking some extra ordinary decisions for wooing new industries. It will create a very good climate for new industries. For non-hazardous industries employing less than 50 workmen, employer can get his plant inspected by third party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/labour-reforms-draw-flak-from-trade-unions/articleshow/75636925.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Indore||Indore: Panel to probe deaths at Gokuldas||INDORE: A day after four deaths reported in Gokuldas Hospital and kin of deceased accusing hospital of medical negligence in a viral video, Indore district collector Manish Singh on Friday ordered an audit to know cause of deaths. Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi also constituted a three-member committee to probe the entire incident. The hospital, however, rubbished allegations and termed it to be an attempt to tarnish its image. Senior leaders from both BJP and Congress have demanded strict action against hospital and filing of FIR against the guilty. Video that went viral on social media on Thursday night showed patients’ kin accusing hospital of fleecing money and alleging that mismanagement has led to deaths of patients in short period of time. The patients’ kin were seen accusing hospital of attempting to clear beds ‘to sanitize the medical facility’. Chief medical and health officer Dr Pravin Jadia, who was asked to probe the matter, said patients’ records have been seized as part of investigation. Process for suspending licence of the hospital temporarily is also under process. “The hospital has not been sealed yet. Appropriate action will be taken after investigation,” Dr Jadia said. The health department started process of shifting patients while 12 of them patients were discharged during the day. Hospital director Dr Sanjay Gokuldas issued a press release saying that the video was made to defame the hospital. “Four patients died on Thursday in the hospital and these patients died due to serious ailments and comorbid conditions. Decision to discharge the patients is taken by district committee and not by hospital administration so allegation for discharging patients to turn it into a Green hospital (hospital for general care) is also wrong,” he said. He claimed that sanitization is a routine process and no one was shifted for the work. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Tripathi has constituted a three-member probe committee, comprising MY Hospital superintendent Dr PS Thakur, MGM medicine HoD Dr VP Pandey and respiratory medicine HoD Dr Salil Bhargava to probe into the allegations made against Gokuldas Hospital. Reacting to the incident, the water resource minister Tulsiram Silawat on Friday said that strict action should be taken against the hospital, if allegations are found true. City congress president Vinay Bakliwal demanded the state government to register FIR against the hospital owner and launch a high-level investigation into the matter .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/panel-to-probe-deaths-at-gokuldas/articleshow/75636914.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: With no food & money, over 30 Bihar workers stuck in Banswara||UDAIPUR: As many as 36 workers from Bihar are stranded in Banswara due to lockdown with no money or enough food. Most of them who are unable to pay rent to their landlords are now searching for shelters and in some cases as many as eight people are staying in a single room. Majority of the workers are youths aged between 25 and 30 years who have been working in small shops, restaurants or engaged in menial painting and labour work. They enrolled themselves online on the government portal to go back to their home state, but due to some lacunae, their applications remained pending. In the meantime, the state government also ordered to seal the interstate borders again. On Friday, these youth went to the collectorate and narrated their grievances to the authorities. “Most of us are jobless with no money left after two months of lockdown. We want to go back and are even ready to raise funds to hire our own means of transport, but we don’t know how to go about it,” Bhupendra Yadav, one of the migrant workers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-no-food-money-over-30-bihar-workers-stuck-in-banswara/articleshow/75636946.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Posta: Amid lockdown 3.0, a third round of spike in prices of essentials||KOLKATA: Prices of grocery items across retail markets have increased for the third time in the last one-and-a-half months, making life difficult for many already struggling to make ends meet. Sources in the wholesale market said the latest inflation was on account of Posta being turned into a containment zone. Supply has also been hit with several items disappearing from the market. The first time price had increased was at the very outset when the lockdown was announced. Panic buying had triggered a shortage of commodities in the market, triggering the price hike. Even though wholesale prices had cooled after the initial spurt caused by supply discrepancies, retail prices remained 10%-15% higher than the pre-lockdown level. TimesViewEveryone in the chain — from the producer to the consumer — should be protected as much as possible from the shocks caused by the massive disruption. Some amount of volatility may be inevitable in such times but government agencies should keep monitoring the situation to preempt profiteering.On April 22, the price again shot up after the containment zones were earmarked and goods movement suffered a jolt. The price of staples across the board increased by 15%-20%. However, prices of select commodities dipped this time following further easing of inter-state goods movement. Prices of wheat flour (atta), sugar and edible oil had dipped marginally, said Posta Merchants’ Association general secretary Biswanath Agarwal. “Retail prices of pulses (daal), posto (poppy seeds) and rice increased steadily because of disruption in the supply line after a part of Posta wholesale market was shut down following the report of Covid-19 cases from the belt. However, the situation will ease if the market’s operation is shifted elsewhere as proposed by the government,” Arun Baidya, a retailer at Bhowanipore market. Apart from the rise of prices of few essential commodities, some items have completely disappeared from the market. Suji, besan, dhoka, sattu and candles are nowhere to be found. “Those, who have old stocks, are selling them at a premium,” recounted a shopper. Those who do not buy loose grocery may face trying times ahead with supplies of branded products drying up at superstores and local kirana stores hiking up price steeply. Price of loose grocery items — rice, atta, pulses, edible oil and sugar — have also gone up. Shop owners say it is reflection of the rise in prices in the wholesale markets due to irregular truck movement. Wholesale market traders though countered that retail prices were not commensurate with wholesale prices. There will be a difference as retailers have to pay for transporting the goods to their store. But that does not justify a markup of Rs 10-20 per kg. The government must act against such unethical practices,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-lockdown-3-0-a-3rd-round-of-spike-in-prices-of-essentials/articleshow/75635979.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More youngsters join Mapathon Keralam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Mapathon Keralam project of IT Mission got a new fillip when around 130 young professionals and resources persons of Haritha Keralam Mission joined it for mapping of streams in the state. With IT Mission providing online training for the volunteers, the mapping of streams has been completed in Kottayam and Kollam. “Other districts are currently undertaking mapping of streams in respective locations. After drawing the stream using satellite images, they try to give names to each stream. Mapping of ponds will be part of the next phase. Mapping of water resources and related structures shall enable better planning against water scarcity,” said IT Mission director S Chithra. Officials of IT Mission said that mapping of steams in Pathanamthitta was carried out by geography students of NSS College, Pandalam. Using the platform Open Street Mapping (OSM), IT Mission launched Mapathon Keralam, a crowd-sourcing initiative for macro-level mapping of various resources in the state, around six months ago. Initially, around 1,100 students, mostly NSS volunteers, joined as volunteers for Mapathon. Of these, over 600 students were trained by NSS programme officers under Kerala Technological University. These volunteers are expected to contribute a minimum five mapping days. They will map buildings, roads and other assets. An attempt is being made to map all public health institutions with the help of NSS volunteers. Sources said that data available in OSM will be more accurate as it is available for public scrutiny. Meanwhile, a group of technocrats has come up with a proposal to help encourage citizens to use public transport by leveraging a map of bus stops and routes. This will encourage more people to use it over private transport. Such change will have social and ecological benefits, said IT Mission officials. Mapping activities are providing vital information that can be used for development planning in the state, and more importantly in disaster management. IT mission officials said that people could utilize the period during lockdown to give macro-level information of their locality with the help of freely available satellite images. “It is a good way to contribute to Kerala’s rebuilding initiative at the time of lockdowns. We encourage more students and volunteers to join our efforts and contribute with your skill and knowledge,” Chithra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-youngsters-join-mapathon-keralam/articleshow/75636944.cms||Jisha Surya
May 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No mask? Be ready to shell out Rs 1,000 fine||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Friday began imposing a fine of Rs 1,000 on people roaming in public places without wearing a mask as the state battles to contain new Covid-19 cases. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar sent directives to all collectors to immediately levy the fine after reports of people roaming without mask began pouring in from across the state. A wine shop owner was on Friday penalised Rs 5,000 by the Sircilla municipality for selling liquor to customers not wearing a face mask. In the GO issued by the general administration department, Kumar said mask was must in public places to prevent transmission of Covid-19. However, much before the government made the announcement, gram panchayats took a decision in early April itself to impose a fine of Rs 100 on those violating lockdown norms and not wearing a face mask. Subsequently, municipalities also imposed Rs 500 penalty on those not wearing masks. Two days ago, Kamareddy municipality fined a person Rs 500 for not following the mask rule, while Khammam district implemented the Rs 1,000 penalty rule in April itself. A few hundred people have been penalised in many districts for not wearing the face mask to date. Fines were also imposed for not following social distancing norms. Shops were also fined for not maintaining physical distancing, officials said. In Hyderabad, Health minister Eatala Rajender announced that the state reported 10 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 1,132. A total of 720 people was discharged and among them was a 75-year-old patient with chronic conditions, while another was undergoing dialysis. The state has reported 29 deaths so far with most of them from Hyderabad Rajender also announced that 14 districts will move from orange to green zones, completing 80% of the state under the green zone. “We have written to the Centre, making an appeal on these lines,” he said. He said except mass public transport, most of the allowed activities in green zones by the Centre will be allowed in these districts. The minister said the government was following the guidelines given by the ICMR on testing Covid-19 positive cases and it was informed to Union health minister during a video conference on Friday. “The ICMR gave guidelines that only symptomatic first contacts of the patients and those with co-morbid conditions and pregnant women in their families were to be tested. And we are doing the same,” he added. “Since cases are coming down, the number of their contacts also comes down, hence need for more testing also comes down,” Rajender added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mask-be-ready-to-shell-out-rs-1000-fine/articleshow/75636951.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Indore||Use of National Health Mission funds comes under scanner||INDORE: The district administration has launched a probe into the expenses made through National Health Mission (NHM) funds after officials failed to furnish relevant records. According to collector Manish Singh’s order, administration had received amount in different heads under NHM. In a review meeting, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), district programme manager (DPM) and district account officer failed to reply whose consent was sought for the expenses. Therefore, administration has put a restriction on making any expenses under NHM while collector has assigned a probe to ADM Kirti Khurasia to collect all the documents related to payment and examine the same. Till the investigation continues, Dr Madhav Hasani has been freed from the charge of store in charge while Dr Virendra Rajgir has been given responsibility temporarily. “The investigation has just been started. It will take next couple of days to make any comment in this regard,” Khurasia told TOI. Other officials concerned, who are supposed to be a part of the investigation, also denied commenting till the probe is completed. Dr Hasani has also been replaced from the charge of additional CMHO. The collector, in his order, has removed Dr Hasani from the post of additional CMHO and has given the charge to civil surgeon Dr Santosh Verma as additional responsibility. Dr Verma will also be involved in nursing home registration related works. During the day, collector, zila panchayat CEO, CMHO, civil surgeon and other officials concerned participated in a video-conference led by chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais. In the meeting, senior officials asked local administration to use ‘mild tone’ in publishing news/press release, so that people don’t panic and at the same time get authentic information. They also emphasized on regular surveillance, testing of suspected persons and providing treatment at the right time, contact tracing of positive patients and taking other important steps to help controlling the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/use-of-natl-health-mission-funds-comes-under-scanner/articleshow/75636935.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||PCL to fix problems in areas facing outages: UP power minister||LUCKNOW: UP power minister Shrikant Sharma has directed officials to depute extra teams of officials in areas facing prolonged power outages due to intermittent rains and thunderstorms. Sharma has asked Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) chairman Arvind Kumar to conduct an assessment of district-wise maintenance works in the affected areas. UPPCL has been receiving complaints that outages are not being addressed swiftly. The minister said that during Lockdown 3.0 rains and thunderstorms have caused loss to power infrastructure, mainly in rural areas of Bundelkhand, Purvanchal, Madhyanchal and Paschimanchal, while impacting power supply. Sharma said complaints of power outages were being received at helpline 1912 and through social media. “In many localities, power engineers rectified the faults, but snags could not be attended in some localities,” he said. The minister said localities facing prolonged outages will be identified and corrective measures will be taken accordingly. He also directed the managing director of all distribution companies to supervise the maintenance works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pcl-to-fix-problems-in-areas-facing-outages-min/articleshow/75637630.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Flights from Kolkata unlikely to start right after curbs ease||KOLKATA: Flights from Kolkata are unlikely to take off right after the lockdown on flights is lifted. Sources in the civil aviation industry indicated that flights post lockdown would initially operate between smaller airports to ensure regional connectivity between tier-III towns, which are in the green zone. It is only thereafter that airports in tier-II cities in the orange zone and finally, those in metro cities, including Kolkata, that are in the red zone, will start operations. However, several private carriers opened their portals on Friday for booking tickets from June 1, leading to hope that flights grounded for a month and a half will take off soon. Though airlines had opened sales during the first lockdown as well, they were censured by the civil aviation minister. Thereafter, tickets sold for travel during lockdown 2.0 and 3.0 were refunded by airlines. “If the lockdown is extended, tickets sold for travel during the period will be refunded. But the fact that airlines have commenced sales hints at some kind of communication with industry regulator DGCA,” a travel trade industry source said. However, with airlines refusing to refund tickets purchased before the lockdown for travel during the lockdown, the Travel Agents Federation of India has urged the Supreme Court to intervene. The refund due is pegged at Rs 800 crore-Rs 900 crore. If flights resume operations on June 1, it will be after nine weeks. A private airline official said the company was ready to commence services and was sanitizing aircraft and coaches and briefing employees on safe travel guidelines and SOPs that had been drawn up to ensure distancing norms. “We are ready with procedures to handle passengers in the terminal and transfer them to the aircraft in buses. We are now waiting to know what the DGCA says about seating on flights. There are indications that, in the first phase, flights will be allowed between airports in the green zone. Resuming flights from red zones, like Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai or Bengaluru, will entail complications like inter-district travel since many passengers who take flights from these airports travel from neighbouring districts as well,” the official explained. Sources said due diligence will be done at airports to ensure all measures are in place before they resume operations. Sources at Kolkata airport said the facility was ready to function in line with the new reality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flights-from-city-unlikely-to-start-right-after-curbs-ease/articleshow/75636014.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||University exam only for final-year students, all others to be promoted||Pune: University students not in the final semester of graduation and postgraduation will be promoted automatically without having to appear for any exam, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced on Friday. Only those in the final semester will have to appear for exams to be held between July 1 and 30, he said. He also said that if the lockdown is extended further, a review of the final-semester exams will be carried out between June 20 and 25. The new academic year will begin on September 1 and the results will be announced by August 15. Students not in the final semester will be promoted and graded based on their performance in previous semesters along with their performance in the current semester. “Those who fail in this grading will also be promoted, but they will have to appear for a re-exam in the new academic year,” said Samant. “Students studying on allowed to keep terms (ATKT) scheme will also be promoted. They will also appear for the exam in new academic year. Every university will announce its own schedule of exams for final-semester students and also for repeaters once the academic year starts,” he said. Samant said that an expert committee had been set up with Mumbai University vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar as coordinator and six other members, including officials from the higher education department and vice-chancellors (VCs) of other universities in Maharashtra, including Nitin Karmalkar, VC of Savitrbai Phule Pune University (SPPU), as one of its members. The committee submitted a report on May 6 which was discussed with chief minister Udhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, among others, said Samant. He said the UGC guidelines issued last week mandated conduct of exams for final-year students. Attendance of 45 days during the lockdown period will be considered as present for all students. The minister said the universities must consider students failing to meet the attendance guidelines for exams and gradation on humanitarian grounds. Samant said, "The number of students appearing for exam in one classroom will be reduced in keeping with the social distancing norms. If it was not possible to conduct the practicals physically, then universities should consider journal assignments and online orals exams for marking." Karmalkar said that the SPPU was trying to set up a redressal cell to clear doubts of students in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar. "All important decisions of the university will be conveyed to students through this cell. The university will draw up an action plan based on the state government’s announcements and it will be announced soon." GFX How students will be promoted? -A 50:50 gradation formula will be used -- 50 % performance of previous semester and remaining 50 % based on current semester - Students who fail in this formula will also be promoted - Students can also appear for class improvement if they are not satisfied with their grades - The exams for students falling under class improvement, ATKT and failed subject categories will be conducted by respective universities after the new academic year begins. These exams will have to be conducted within 120 days of the new academic year - Autonomous universities have also been advised to follow the same rules - SNDT University will also have to follow the same rules Common entrance test The Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) for graduate courses like engineering, pharmacy, hotel management, architecture, agriculture, law will be held between July 1 and 15. The exams which are currently held at district centres will be conducted at taluka level. The CET exam for postgraduate courses will be held between July 23 and 30. Grievance cell State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said that all universities must set up a grievance cell in every district under their jurisdiction and address students' queries. Students can call up the numbers and clear their doubts regarding the conduct of exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/university-exam-only-for-final-year-students-all-others-to-be-promoted/articleshow/75637606.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 9, 2020||Mangaluru||10k migrant workers in DK apply to go home||Mangaluru: In spite of construction and other works, where a majority of the workforce from North India are employed, having partially commenced in the district, as many as 10,000 migrants labourers have registered to return to their hometowns. However, according to sources, due non-availability of transport and delay in getting approval from their respective states, their chances of going back home look bleak. The first setback for thousands of migrant workers in Mangaluru came on Thursday, when Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted in Hindi, saying that it will take some time for the workers to return to Jharkhand, but assured that they will all be brought back in the future. His tweet comes after migrants from Jharkhand launched a poster campaign, #BasAbHameGharJanaHain, in Mangaluru. Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad, who is coordinating inter-state travel, said that 10,000 people have applied to return to their hometowns, in Dakshina Kannada. Out of them, 3,000 labourers are from Jharkhand, 1,500 from Bihar, 1,700 from Uttar Pradesh, 700 from Kerala, 200 from Tamil Nadu and 500 from Rajasthan, apart from other states. They have applied through the Karnataka Seva Sindhu portal. According to the district administration, they can only return to their hometowns, after deputy commissioners from their respective districts issue NOCs. However, there is still confusion on how they will travel to their states, as there are no travel facilities available. ‘Mass exodus because we showed them no empathy’ A person associated with the construction industry for more than three decades, says the migrant workers want to go back, as they are hurt by their employers’ treatment during the lockdown. “They consider this place as a second home, but we have not looked after them well during the lockdown, except for some employers. In simple terms, many employers washed their hands of the workers when the lockdown was announced, and the workers suffered without money, food and rations. They were suddenly shown sympathy when the lockdown was relaxed. This was noticed by them, and they have decided to return to their native places, as they were hurt by our treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/10k-migrant-workers-in-dk-apply-to-go-home/articleshow/75631631.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government may shift truck unloading out of Posta||KOLKATA: Trucks laden with goods rolled into Posta on Friday even as the government hunted for a suitable place to relocate part of the wholesale market’s operations in a bid to decongest Burrabazar and prevent the area from turning into a Covid-19 super-spreader. With several Covid-positive cases being detected in the belt and health officials wary of the constant movement of truck drivers and helpers from all over the country entering the zone that also sees the arrival and departure of retailers from all over the city, the government wants to at least shift the load-unloading process elsewhere to break the Covid transmission chain. If that move fails, the government plans to conduct thermal screening of all drivers and helpers. However, this is not a foolproof method of detecting a Covid threat as asymptomatic carriers do not have fever and will evade thermal scanner detection. “Hundreds of truck drivers and cleaners come to this wholesale hub. We don’t know who is carrying the virus. This is why we are thinking of ways to stop them from reaching here,” said Firhad Hakim, former KMC KMC and the current chairman of its board of administrators. Kolkata Police joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey maintained they hadn’t been contacted yet but also said they had three proposals to offer, should the need arise. The most feasible one though appears to be stopping the trucks at Dhulagarh to screen drivers and helpers for ILI or SARI type diseases before allowing them to proceed once trucks have been sanitized. “There can be some quick random testing kits here too and the health department can issue health card that has to be produced by drivers once they reach Posta,” said an officer, adding that a second test can be carried out here as well. Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations president Sushil Poddar agreed to this proposal, terming it pragmatic as shifting the complex operation of the wholesale hub was a Herculean task. “We can introduce roster-based operation of shops. If one in every five shop is allowed to operate on Monday, every second shop can operate on Tuesday and so on, it will ensure social distancing and minimum disruption in the trade,” he suggested. On Friday, half of Posta worked the way it used to functioned with big trucks making their way into the market and hundreds of labourers busy unloading and assorting. “It is not as easy as shifting a shop. The logistics are very complicated and the government will have to provide a place where we can park the lorries,” said Durgadas Sapra, a wholesaler of garlic. Almost half the market is still shut as there are no adequate labourers to work as most of them returned to their villages. “The labourers always stayed in several accommodations in Posta and Burrabazar as unloading of lorries continue till 4am. How will thousand of labourers travel to other locations?” asked Sanjay Agarwal, a member of the Merchants’ Welfare Association. (Inputs by Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay, Saikat Ray, Dwaipayan Ghosh and Zeeshan Jawed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-may-shift-truck-unloading-out-of-posta/articleshow/75635999.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Migrant workers walk for miles to board trains, sent back to get online passes||Help desks, only medical certificates, a proper communication of government orders, and free travel could bring relief to lakhs of migrant workers waiting to reach their homes, bureaucrats, labour leaders and experts said in the aftermath of the tragedy near Aurangabad. The Shramik Express trains have triggered a flurry of activity with workers swarming police stations and government health centres for papers to secure an online travel pass. Orders for online passes are in Marathi, and most workers are unfamiliar with the digital process. Those who are unable to get the document, start walking. The group in Jalna that died on the railway tracks had been sent back to apply for the online travel pass, a bureaucrat in the Marathwada region said. Instead, medical checks at relief camps, tickets to those who are fit to travel, and information about the time and date of the train and ferrying them to the stations would have helped, other bureaucrats said. In Kolhapur, as many as 15,000 workers have their documents ready but the local administration has not yet announced their travel plan. A senior bureaucrat said the government should have had officials coordinating with the workers rather than put them through such stress. “Lakhs of migrants were thrown into the deep end with the lockdown and expected to survive. The government has played with the lives of 100 million people,” said P Sainath, Magsaysay award winner and founder-editor of People’s Archive of Rural India told TOI. The government should have allowed movement of workers taluka wise in every district to avoid the rush, Raju Desle, state secretary of All India Trade Union Congress said. Transport arrangement would have required funds only for diesel which the state could have borne, another senior bureaucrat said. A group of 15 workers left on two-wheelers to Uttar Pradesh and reached after three days, said Premshankar, a migrant from Chandanagar. According to realtors, the government should never have stopped work and many workers would have wanted to stay as they send money back home. “We did not have the correct information. We were told to take care of the workers. There was never any clarity,” another realtor, who was part of these government meetings, said. Many migrant workers at work sites across Pune Metropolitan Region said they would go home to meet their families. “We came here to work and may come back again. But we should be allowed to go home and see our people once,” Parbat Singh, a scaffholder at a construction site said. “The workers are observing non-availability of raw materials. They are seeing that their supervisors and contractors are struggling to come to work. They think work will not start soon. So they want to go,” Suhas Merchant, president, Credai Pune-Metro, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-struggle-with-paperwork-lack-of-info/articleshow/75637610.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Walking their way to UP, thousands reach Ambala from Ludhiana, sent back to Punjab||AMBALA: Thousands of migrant labourers on way to their home state Uttar Pradesh from Ludhiana in Punjab on Friday reached here on foot. But, halting their march, the district administration sent most of them back to Punjab, while the rest were accommodated in shelter homes of Ambala. Ambala district officials said the labourers in shelter homes would be sent to Saharanpur in UP, but the Punjab officials need to check why they were not able to stop their movement. Satyam, one of the labourers reaching Ambala from Ludhiana on footm said, “We were stopped by Punjab Police at some places but provided no shelter and were asked to return to Ludhiana. But, since we want to go home, we searched shortcuts through agriculture fields to reach Ambala. Now the police have stopped us and sending us back.” Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel, who reached Shambhu barrier on NH 44 to take stock of the situation, said, “Hundreds of migrant labourers walked their way to Ambala from Punjab. But, by way of precaution during Covid-19 pandemic, the Ambala administration stopped their march and informed them that they will get the train back to their states from the very places where they are working. It was a major negligence on the part of Punjab government and police that they failed to stop the migrants.” The Ambala MLA also gifted slippers to the labourers, who were walking bare foot. Ambala Sadar SHO ASP Nikita Khattar said, “Migrants are continuously entering Ambala through various passages. We are now intercepting them and sending them back to their places of work and asking them to apply for Shramik Special trains from there.” SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “In the recent past, Ambala administration had sheltered around 3,500 migrant labourers, who had entered state from Punjab. They have been sent to UP in buses. Now, labourers are again coming from Punjab side. As of now, we have sent back some of them to Punjab and the rest are being again accommodated in shelter homes here. We have talked to Saharanpur administration in UP and they have agreed to take these labourers. I have asked Ambala deputy commissioner to arrange some buses to ferry these labourers up to Saharanpur.” Ghanaur DSP Manpreet Singh said, “Those already here will be kept in shelters for the night and sent back to their places of origin in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/walking-their-way-to-up-thousands-reach-ambala-from-ludhiana-sent-back-to-punjab/articleshow/75638770.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa govt notifies 12-hour work shifts||PANAJI: The Goa government has extended the working hours in factories to 12 hours with certain conditions till July-end. In a notification issued by the inspectorate of factories and boilers, the government said that the decision has been taken in the wake of restrictions on movement of workers affecting factory operations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Relaxing some provisions of the Factories Act, the working hours for optimum utilisation of workers have been extended in factories. The order is issued subject to certain conditions which include that the number of daily hours of work not exceed 12 and the total number of hours of work in any week, including over time, not exceed 60.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-notifies-12-hour-work-shifts/articleshow/75638181.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||MSRTC starts bus service in four green zone districts||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has started intra-district bus operations in the green zone districts. A senior Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) official told TOI on Friday that skeletal bus operations had begun in four green zone districts — Gadchiroli, Gondia, Wardha and Washim — and the service would start in Osmanabad from Monday. “We were hopeful about starting operations in Sindhudurg as well but the district currently has an orange zone status. So, the collector has not allowed service there,” the official said. “The intra-district bus service has started with strict monitoring. Social distancing norms are being followed and only one person is allowed to occupy a seat. No one is allowed to stand and travel. The services were started after acquiring permission from the respective collectors of these districts,” the official said. State transport minister Anil Parab had said on Thursday the first priority even in the green zones would be to rescue and transport stranded people. “The inter-district transportation of stranded people has begun and it will be the priority even while resuming intra-district service. Once a district is declared a green zone, the district collector will be consulted before commencing intra-district transportation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-starts-bus-service-in-four-green-zone-districts/articleshow/75637618.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Working hours increased in lockdown-hit industries||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Friday relaxed the daily standard working hours for adult workers from 8 hours to 12 hours and from 48 hours to 72 hours a week to revive economic activities and augment production in the lockdown-hit industries and MSMEs. “The shifts of adult workers in a factory should be fixed in such a way that it should not exceed six hours and that no worker shall work for more than six hours before he has an half-an-hour interval to rest. And the working hours should not exceed 13 hours,” said an order issued by labour secretary Anu Garg. The order further stated that women workers shall not be allowed or required to work in a factory between 7 pm and 6 am unless specifically permitted by the state government. Additional four hours of overtime wages per day shall be paid as prescribed under the Factories Act subject to an overtime limit of 24 hours per week, said Garg. The industrial houses and MSME units have been asked to adhere to various guidelines issued by the state government to contain spread of the Covid-19. There has been significant fall in production in large industries and MSME units since March 22. Industrial associations have requested the state government for relaxations in the working hours. “Keeping the request of industrial associations and to resume the economic activities, the state government has given relaxations in the working hours,” said information and public relations secretary Sanjay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/working-hours-increased-in-lockdown-hit-industries/articleshow/75634891.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Kolkata||Domestic help problem reaches police station in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A complaint of harassment and cyber bullying was lodged against a group of residents of a Sector-V housing complex — by a couple from the same complex — for not allowing domestic helps enter the premises. On Thursday, the couple lodged a complaint with Electronic Complex police station against a group of housing society members of Panache in Mahisbathan, alleging that the group had been harassing them on the residents’ WhatsApp group over the past few days, ever since they brought in their domestic help. “After the Union government directive, we brought in our domestic help on May 4. But since that evening, we have been subjected to cyber bullying and harassment by some of the society members. They have even stopped our domestic help from entering the complex,” said Neha Dhingra, a PR professional. Dhingra claimed that when she and some other residents protested, they were twice called to the police station by an SI and were allegedly intimidated. “The society is already allowing electricians, carpenters and other outsiders. Our help lives just outside the complex. I don’t think association members have any right to control who we bring into our flat,” she said, adding that after she lodged the complaint, the couple was removed from the WhatsApp group. “We don’t have a grudge against anyone. We are not allowing in helps for the safety of the residents. It’s an internal matter and we don’t want to make it public,” said Dhiraj Chaturvedi, a senior member of the society. An officer of Electronic Complex police station said they have received a written complaint and are looking into the allegations. “It is true our officers had tried to make her understand the dangers of allowing in helps who live in slums at this moment since she has an infant at home, but we have registered her complaint,” the cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/domestic-help-problem-reaches-police-station/articleshow/75636029.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Irate over curfew extension, people storm out of homes in Kota||KOTA: Enraged over further extension of curfew, hundreds of men and women, violating social distancing norms, stormed out of their houses in the Walled City late on Thursday night and protested against the district administration. Kota district collector Om Kasera had on Thursday evening issued order enforcing zero mobility and renewed curfew in Mahavir Nagar extension area till May 15 after a 37- year-old man of the area tested Covid-19 positive. Collector Kasera ordered extension of curfew in at least 11 localities till May 15. “Around 1am on Thursday, residents in Makbra and Kaithunipole localities, most of whom belong to low income groups, came out of their houses complaining of no cash and inadequate distribution of ration,” said Dilip Saini, ASP, Kota city. “Police have lodged a case for violation of curfew and social distancing norms against 200-250 people in Makbra and Kaithunipole localities,” the ASP added. Saini admitted that a comprehensive exercise was required for distribution of ration in the areas and needy families should be identified for door-to-door distribution of ration. “Kota shahar qazi intervened in the matter and sent a message to the protesting people following which they returned to their houses around 3am on Friday,” said Mubeen Khan, SHO, Makbra police station. Police have lodged a case against six identified persons and around 150-200 unidentified persons in the matter, the SHO added. “Videography of the entire demonstration by crowd was carried out and people involved in the protest are being identified, however, police have lodged a case against around 250 people for violation of curfew,” said Rajendra Singh, circle in-charge, Kaithunipole police station said. “The people in the localities are full of unrest and anger due to further extension of curfew and mismanagement of district administration in distribution of ration. They can resort to violence if the situation is not tackled properly,” said Anwar Ahmed, a resident of Makbra area. “The people who had been packed off to their homes for over a month are now filled with uneasiness and boredom and want to go to work,” said Yogesh Sharma, a resident of curfew-bound Indira Market. The administration should understand the sentiments of the people and restrict the curfew to 100 metres of the spot, where positive cases have been detected, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irate-over-curfew-extension-people-storm-out-of-homes-in-kota/articleshow/75636970.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Pune||Prisons chief seeks to decongest jails||Pune: Additional director general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand has sought an audience with the high power committee (HPC) set up at the instance of the Supreme Court to discuss the issue of decongesting jails in the state in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The meeting is likely to be held in Mumbai on May 11. As many as 77 under-trial prisoners and 26 staffers at Arthur Road jail and four prisoners at Satara jail have tested positive for Covid-19. The department of state prisons has released 5,105 under-trial prisoners, including 388 from Yerawada jail, on interim bail as per court orders. Ramanand told TOI, “Barring certain categories of prisoners involved in rape cases or cases registered under TADA, POTA, MCOCA, UAPA, POCSO Act, I am insisting on releasing other under-trial prisoners on bail and convicts on emergency parole. However, I am not the final authority. I have asked for an audience with the HPC to discuss the issues.” He added, “We want to release under-trial prisoners on a larger scale because if prisoners test positive, then we should be in a position to start quarantine facilities, maintain physical/social distance in jails, and convert jails into hospitals..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prisons-chief-seeks-to-decongest-jails/articleshow/75637628.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tears of relief at IGI Airport's arrival and departure||NEW DELHI: At 12.05pm on Friday, Air India flight AI-381 made a smooth landing at Indira Gandhi International Airport. Though half an hour late in arriving, the 234 passengers from Singapore were delighted to step on home soil after two months of anxiety and uncertainty. Their relatives weren’t allowed to meet them, and yet the relief of being back in India made them grin, wave their hands and give the thumbs up sign. It was only around 3pm that the scrutiny of the passengers got over. The first lot of the stranded Indians being brought home from abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission, the returnees had their documents inspected and then underwent medical checks to ascertain their Covid status. Only after this three-hour exercise did they board the buses organised to take them into quarantine at hotels in Aerocity, Dwarka and south Delhi. Travellers from the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh were driven there in other buses. In a tweet, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal welcomed the passengers and assured them that all arrangements had been made for all Indians arriving in Delhi from other countries. Till Friday, the number of coronavirus cases in Singapore had logged 21,707, with 20 deaths. So, the arriving Indians will spend 14 days in paid quarantine in the designated hotels before they can be reunited with their families at home. “The residents of Delhi will stay in 8-10 hotels that have been readied in New Delhi, south and southeast Delhi as well as at Aerocity,” said a government official. Nearly 20 buses, including some from UP, Haryana and Punjab, were deployed at IGIA to ferry the people to the quarantine facilities. As per the standard operating procedures for dealing with Indians arriving at IGIA, resident commissioners and nodal officers of other states will take care of the transport and quarantine of their respective residents. Medical teams comprising staff from the municipal bodies and Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital, Jaffar Kalan, screened the arrivals from Singapore, while taking strict precautionary measures to avoid any possible infection. The spokesperson of IGIA operator Delhi International Airport Limited said the SOP for handling passengers on repatriation flights envisaged social distancing during boarding and disembarking. “The airlines, their ground handlers, DIAL staff, immigrations, CISF and Customs will be supporting the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) and Delhi government in the operations,” the spokesperson said. On Thursday at 11.30pm, the first Vande Bharat Mission flight had left for Singapore empty from Delhi. In the other 64 planned flights, 14 of them landing at IGIA, Air India will not only be bringing back Indians stranded abroad due to the Covid crisis, but will also fly people out to the US, UK and Singapore, bookings for which are now open. During the weeklong mission till May 13, there will be flights to locations like Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines and the United Kingdom. Indians from other countries such as Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, UAE and the US will also be flown home over the next seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tears-of-relief-at-arrival-and-departure/articleshow/75636992.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 9, 2020||Pune||HC seeks Maharashtra’s reply on Pune woman’s PIL||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday sought a reply from the state on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Pune woman on permission to take her pet dogs for their daily walks. The state government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade stated that the Pune Municipal Corporation had put no restrictions on walking the pets within the society society compounds. Justice SC Gupte was hearing a petition filed by Pune resident Vineeta Tandon and an animal welfare activist via video-conferencing. Her lawyer Harshavardhan Bhende also raised a concern of police stopping animal ambulances, to which Kakade said there were no orders curbing such ambulances. The HC sought clarity from the state on these issues by May 15 and adjourned the matter till then. The HC also directed the petitioner to place on record any letters written by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) on the issue after the lawyer said that it had mentioned that failure to let dogs be taken for walks would amount to cruelty to animals, even during the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hc-seeks-states-reply-on-pune-womans-pil/articleshow/75637642.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress demands probe into ex-MLA’s death||PANAJI: Congress on Friday demanded an independent inquiry, headed by a retired high court judge, into the death of two-time MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu. State Congress president Girish Chodankar alleged that Deshprabhu died due to the negligence of Goa Medical College authorities. “There are shocking reports of mission cover-up Covid-19 by the chief minister and health minister, which has now compelled us to demand an impartial inquiry in the interest of the health of people of Goa,” said Chodankar. The Congress party said that authorities have made contradictory statements about Deshprabhu’s Covid-19 test with GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar claiming that the rapid test came negative. The health minister tweeted that the rapid test kits were never used and only laboratory tests were conducted on Deshprabhu. CM Pramod Sawant said that laboratory tests require six hours to give results but Deshprabhu was declared dead just over three hours after he was brought to the hospital. “If there was no rapid test conducted on Deshprabhu but only the laboratory tests, which requires a minimum of six hours, how was Deshprabhu declared Covid-19 negative when he was declared dead within three hours?” questioned Chodankar. Citing information gathered by Congress workers, Chodankar said that two on-duty doctors were missing when they were needed to attend to Deshprabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-demands-probe-into-ex-mlas-death/articleshow/75638186.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Rajkot||Unauthorized entry into Junagadh, 18 held at checkpost||Rajkot: Junagadh district police arrested as many as 18 persons along with their vehicles at the checkpost, which serves as an entry of the district, on Wednesday.“Since April 14, we have arrested 410 people so far along with their vehicles who were trying to enter into the district without permits or passes,” said a senior police official from Junagadh district police. “In order to stop the spread of Covid-19, we have erected checkposts at the entry points into the district to prevent people from unauthorized entry into our district,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unauthorized-entry-into-junagadh-18-held-at-checkpost/articleshow/75609199.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||BMS, left parties to contest labour law ordinance||LUCKNOW: Two days after UP government suspended majority of labour laws 'to create an investment-friendly' atmosphere, both RSS-affilate Bharatiya Majdoor Sangh (BMS) and the left parties called it anti-labourers. Anupam Bharatiya, the regional organising secretary of the BMS told TOI that the outfit would challenge the decision to freeze a majority of labour laws for three years. The Hind Majdoor Sabha (HMS) and Dr Girish of CPI have also warned the BJP government to fight vigoruosly against the dumping of the existing laws which were meant to protect labourers. Even the officers and employees in the labour department echo the same voice, saying that with enforcement of a majority labour laws being put on the back burner, it has hardly any role to play. "As the Industrial Act has been made non-functional for three years, nobody can complain against an employer's action, so labour department will practically be defunct," says a labour department officer. The UP government passed an ordinance on Wednesday, declaring that barring the laws related to the rights of women and child and bonded labours, majority of laws have been suspended for next three years. However, before the implementation of the new ordinance, the state government will seek consent of the Centre and to send it soon With the suspension of the ID for three years means, any factory owner having over 3,00 employees can wind up the factory without notice or compensation, while earlier the owner with such huge manpower was not allowed to close down the unit without proper permission and any compensation. Trade Union activities will be banned for three years. The enforcement squad of the labour department will have not right to check any premises of a factory . Under the new ordinance, if the owner of a factory wants to uproot his establishment from one place and set up at another, no one can stop him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bms-left-parties-to-contest-labour-law-ordinance/articleshow/75637652.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 9, 2020||Hubballi||MSMEs demand big-ticket package to restore biz||B.Kishansingh Hubballi: The lockdown has severely hit the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Dharwad district. The sector needs major relief packages from the government in order to revive its activities. Dharwad district houses more than 22,000 MSMEs. According to the District Industry Centre, financial transaction of over Rs 2,000 crore has been halted. The exact loss the industries incurred due to lockdown is yet to be ascertained. Vinay Javali, vice-president, Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the sector was already reeling under huge distress due to demonetisation and poor implementation of GST. Now Covid-19 has broken the backbone of the industry, he said, expressing fear that if the situation continues, around 30% of the industry will be closed permanently. The district has eight industrial estates and six industrial areas. Though the government has relaxed lockdown norms, industries are struggling to restart work as majority of them are not getting raw material for production. Fruit pulps, aeronautic components and chemical valves used to be exported to western countries but due to the prevailing condition there is no production and no exports, said AICC Rachanatma Congress Committee member Vasant Ladawa. Exports require adherence to high standards but it is difficult to maintain the quality even when production resumes, he said. Most of the orders placed by foreign countries before the Covid were closed and the finished products could not be transported. Besides, we are also facing labour shortage now, Ladawa added. “The government should consider this sector as top priority and announce a big-ticket package so that the industries run and survive,” he said. Mohan Bharamkkanavar, joint director of District Industry Centre said discussions are going on in the government level to boost production and restore the supply and distribution chain. He said most of the industries have resumed their work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/msmes-demand-big-ticket-package-to-restore-biz/articleshow/75631763.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||State approaches Centre for financial aid package||Panaji: The state government has approached the Union government for a financial relief package for Goa, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, chief minister Pramod Sawant said all states have approached the central government for financial help to tide over the economic downturn during the Covid-19 lockdown . “We have also sent out a proposal for financial help to the Union government. The Central government has always helped us during times of difficulty, I’m certain the union government will offer help to the state,” he said. A senior official said the state was struggling as the mining and tourism sectors would contribute a significantly to the state economy, but right now, both activities have been halted. He also said that there are over 80,000 labourers working in various industries in the state. “We are making all efforts to convince them to stay back in Goa as many of the lockdown restrictions have lifted and economic activities have restarted in the state,” he added. The state government has already appointed an economic revival committee and they have submitted a final report with recommendations on how the state can keep its economy afloat. The state has also appointed an expenditure-prioritising committee to come up with austerity measures, under chief secretary Parimal Rai. The state’s economic revival committee, in its final report submitted to the government, has laid maximum thrust on boosting agricultural and allied activities to make Goa self-sufficient.  It has recommended that taxi operators, who have been considerably affected due to the slump in tourism and the Covid-19 pandemic, be integrated with the agriculture sector to supply items to farmers and transport their produce to markets or horticulture outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-approaches-centre-for-financial-aid-package/articleshow/75638191.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||LG Polymers violated green norms: Centre||New Delhi: The LG Polymers’ plant in Visakhapatnam violated green rules as far as its functioning under expanded capacity is concerned, the environment ministry said on Friday after preliminary investigation. “The company applied for post-facto approval of its operation under expanded capacity to the ministry on March 17 (days before beginning of the lockdown). Since the clearance is pending, the operation of the plant is certainly a violation,” said a senior ministry official. The application details, submitted to the ministry, show that LG Polymers India Pvt. Ltd. had applied for permission to expand its capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD on its existing site of 213 acres. “Extent of violation on the ground will be investigated. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has already constituted a committee to probe the gas leak incident as well as sequence of events,” said the official, adding that the ministry would share all details through member-secretary of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The district magistrate, Vishakhapatnam, and regional office of Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board were directed by the NGT on Friday to provide logistic support to the Committee in its fact-finding mission. In the meanwhile, the ministry is finalising guidelines for all industrial units in the country to ensure safety while resuming operations during and after lockdown. Since many companies resumed their operations after May 3, such guidelines would help them in smooth transition. New Delhi-based think-tank and advocacy group, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), had on Thursday pitched for such guidelines, saying the Vizag incident “could be just tip of the iceberg”. Referring to the gas leak, it said, “This shows that there are ticking bombs out there as the lockdown ends and industries start resuming activities. Therefore, an immediate directive must go to all units to ensure safety while resuming operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lg-polymers-violated-green-norms-centre/articleshow/75636996.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 9, 2020||Pune||City's science institutes race to fight Covid-19||Pune: From setting up large-scale testing units to designing low-cost medical equipment, the city's science and technology institutes are racing to boost the country's fight against Covid-19. “IISER Pune is preparing to set up a Covid-19 testing facility on campus. Our testing team is working to establish the required physical infrastructure and to get standard operating procedures in place. The institute hopes to begin testing soon, pending a review and approval of our preparations from the ICMR," an official statement from Indian Institute of Science Education and Research said. Scientists from the CSIR- National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, have also been working on various projects since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced. “Our research recommended that 0.02-0.05% (200 to 500 ppm) of sodium hypochlorite (bleach) is the safest quantity for disinfectant tunnels. The NCL has already developed or is in the process of developing scalable chemical processes for indigenous production of key starting materials, important drug intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients that can be taken up by pharmaceutical industries. BMek, a CSIR-NCL’s Venture Center incubate has developed a non-contact handheld digital IR thermometer,” said Prabhakar Ingle, senior principal scientist at NCL. Ingle added the organisation has also developed a membrane-based oxygen enrichment unit that can be used by Covid-19 patients if they need oxygen therapy. It's also working on repurposing drugs. Prashant K Dhakephalkar, director of the Agharkar Research Institute, said they are making a rapid diagnostic test kit for Covid-19. “We will be able to develop these kits for large-scale use within a few months. We have developed a sanitiser as per the formula prescribed by the World Health Organisation. We have already provided 2,500 bottles to the police and citizens. Another project in the pipeline is a disinfectant shower tunnel which does not use sodium hypochlorite,” Dhakephalkar said. The National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), which received a go-ahead to test for SARS-CoV-2, has tested over 200 samples since April 25. It received the nod from the Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research and the state government Pune also has the National Institute of Virology, which has been spearheading testing in the country. The city is also home to scientists, doctors and researchers who have been working to fill gaps in awareness and response to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-science-institutes-race-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75637656.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 9, 2020||Pune||Leopard caught in Kalamb village in Ambegaon taluka||Pix will be emailed later Pimpri Chinchwad: The forest department caught a two-year-old male leopard at Kalamb village in Ambegaon taluka on Thursday morning. The village is located around 10km from Ambegaon and 4km from Manchar town along Ghod river, where sugar cane is cultivated on a large scale. Yogesh Mahajan, range forest officer, Ghodegaon Mahajan, said, "We received information that a leopard had been caught in a cage installed at Shiramala in Kalamb village around 6am on Thursday after which a team of forest officials and employees reached the spot. The cage had been installed there on demand from villagers a few days back." The animal was later sent to the leopard rescue centre at Manikdoh for health examination. Nikhil Bangar, veterinary officer at the centre, said, "The leopard was in a healthy condition when it was brought to the centre." A villager said that the cage was installed six days ago following reports of leopard attacks on domestic animals. The cage had to be shifted to a new location following the spotting of the animal in a different area. Hens were kept as bait in the cage. The villagers said there were two-three leopards on the prowl in nearby areas and the forest department must install a few more cages to catch them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leopard-caught-in-kalamb-village-in-ambegaon-taluka/articleshow/75637678.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 9, 2020||Chennai||Help comes too little, too late for Tamil Nadu guest workers||It’s a plaintive cry for help that’s hit a crescendo. "We have been stuck here without a job and money," said Navab Sherif, a construction labourer from Jharkhand, defiantly, walking along with a group of 400 other workers, his shoulders weighed down by the weight of his bag. "How long can we wait for the government to send us back? So, we decided to walk home," said Sherif. Home is 1,500km away in Jharkhand. Thousands of guest workers, who had migrated to TN for livelihood and account for 40% of the state workforce, have grown impatient with the state’s delay in sending them back home. With a poor blueprint, the Edappadi K Palaniswami government is up against several challenges -- from multiple registrations by guest workers in the government portal that has defied meticulous planning to obtaining consent from the recipient state to take them back. Sources in the government said the number of registrations by people seeking to return to their native states crossed 4 lakh until 1pm on Friday. Several hundreds of them had registered more than three or four times. But even after weeding out the duplicates, the numbers waiting to head home is massive. Amid this uncertainty, hundreds of guest workers from Jharkhand and Odisha decided to go home on foot on Friday afternoon. Navab Sherif was one of them. "It is a sign that the workers have lost faith in us," said a senior IAS officer, seeking anonymity. Sending back the workers has proved a "complicated and daunting task" for the government. All these years they were pouring into the state and returning home voluntarily. The scenario is now different, said a senior officer. He is one of the 22 nodal officers tasked to handle the movement of guest workers, pilgrims, students, patients and their caregivers. "The numbers are large and with our limited resources, it is not an easy task. Moreover, we have multiple restrictions and guidelines to follow," added the officer. After the first batch left for Ranchi from Vellore on May 6, on Friday night, a train each left from Coimbatore and Vellore to north and eastern states. This is just the beginning of a massive exercise. The TN government has to operate not less than 260 trips to clear the bulk of people from government relief shelters. Nearly 160 trips of the special trains should be operated to ferry close to 1.80 lakh persons, hailing from Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Meanwhile, the multiple registrations have flummoxed nodal officers. "We are spending time and energy to wade through the list. For instance, a worker registered five times under different categories (student, pilgrim and patient)," said another official working on the registrations. Moreover, no objection certificates from the recipient state is a must to send back the workers. "But governments are not proactive. Hence, the delay in sending them," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/help-comes-too-little-too-late-for-tn-guest-workers/articleshow/75636983.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
May 9, 2020||Jaipur||Quarantine centres in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur set to receive airlifted Indians||JAISALMER: As the Indian government is airlifting around thousands of Indians from abroad, the state government is readying quarantine centres at Jaisalmer and Jodhpur for people who could be shifted to Rajasthan. Around 500 people each could be brought to Jaisalmer and Jodhpur in next 2-4 days. The forces are in coordination with the Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Civil Aviation. Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta confirmed that some of the airlifted Indians could be brought to Jaisalmer and that the state government has given directions to remain prepared. Mehta said these people would be kept in hotels on their expense for 14-day quarantine period. The district administration is identifying hotels for the purpose. An isolation ward has been prepared specially at the military station in Jaisalmer, where around 500 Indians can be lodged. The medical core of the Army is making special arrangements for checking these Indians. The evacuees would undergo mandatory quarantine as per the standard operating procedure in the quarantine facilities run by the Army, Navy and Air Force. The state government too, has started preparations to bring back Rajasthani residents stuck in foreign countries. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bikaner and Jaisalmer airports are being readied to receive these people, who would be quarantined at hotels at their own cost. The state government has planned to bring back around 8,500 Rajasthanis from abroad at various airports in the state and they will be sent to the quarantine centres prepared by the administration on their cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/quarantine-centres-in-jaisalmer-and-jodhpur-set-to-receive-airlifted-indians/articleshow/75636988.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||Government warns GMC doctors, withdraws legal notice||PANAJI: A showcause notice issued to ten doctors attached to the emergency, trauma and casualty medicine department of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, was withdrawn without explanation on Friday. The notice was issued on Tuesday after complaints were made against the doctors for refusing to attend to patients in the casualty despite repeated requests by their senior authorities. The doctors had committed “grave misconduct,” stated the show-cause notice issued by dean Dr S M Bandekar. The doctors were asked to show-cause as to why disciplinary proceedings should not be recommended against them for violation of Rule 3 of the Central Services (conduct) Rules, 1964. They were also directed to show-cause as to why appropriate criminal complaint/report should not be made against them for committing offences under Section 188 (disobedience to order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) read with relevant sections of the Goa Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations 2020 and Epidemic Disease Act, 1887. A senior official said some casualty medical officers are not on duty, and entrust the departmental work to their juniors. A meeting was held on Thursday to ensure smooth functioning of the casualty and a warning was issued to them before the showcause notice was withdrawn. The officer said if the doctors continue with the same conduct, and if similar complaints are made against them in future, stringent action will be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-warns-gmc-docs-withdraws-legal-notice/articleshow/75638198.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Goa||OPDs at S Goa hospital to open Monday: Vishwajit Rane||MARGAO: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday directed all 26 OPDs to be operational at the new south Goa district hospital from Monday. After inspecting the infrastructure and facilities at the 500-bedded hospital, Rane said that though the hospital is not complete, whatever parts have been handed over to the health services would be put to maximum use. “It will be our endeavour to commission the hospital at the earliest, but for now all OPDs will start from Monday, and one medicine ward is also ready to be functional,” Rane told reporters. Deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida, who accompanied Rane during the inspection, said that the medicine ward will be opened within a week. Sources said that the Hospicio administration is keen on opening the medicine ward before the monsoon so that patients are not inconvenienced at Hospicio. Sources at the Hospicio however said that fully commissioning the hospital was unlikely to happen before monsoon. “Technicians installing various units of the machines have to come from outside the state. So it may take at least a month after the lockdown is lifted to complete all pending works,” a senior official of health services said. Stating that the Covid-19 pandemic was unlikely to end soon and that people would have to learn to live with it until then, Rane said, “The government is taking all measures to keep people safe. Patient-handling at the hospital will have to be done in a better way such that patients feel that they are taken good care of by the government,” he said. Automated token system will also be introduced for people visiting the OPDs at the new south Goa district hospital. “Automation will also lead to better monitoring of the system,” Rane said. He also said that the state government was well prepared to handle any situation even if there is a rise in Covid positive cases in Goa. Rane also visited the ESI hospital which is designated as a Covid support hospital, and Hospicio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opds-at-s-goa-hospital-to-open-monday-rane/articleshow/75638214.cms||---
May 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: AKTU developing robots to help doctors, look after patients||LUCKNOW: Soon, robots created in a lab could be helping doctors and even taking care of patients in Covid-19 wards. The Mechatronics Laboratory at Centre of Advanced Studies (CAS) of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), along with a private college in Greater Noida, is designing robots to assist health workers and doctors in isolation wards. A team of engineers led by CAS coordinator Prof Anuj Kumar Sharma and research scholar Mahip Singh from the college is designing multi-purpose robots based on artificial intelligence. The robots will be sent to two government hospitals for testing by doctors in a week or so. “The robots will ensure physical distancing between health workers and infected patients. They can reach out to patients to serve food or medicine, significantly reducing transmission risk,” said Prof Sharma. He added that the robot can also mop the floor of the hospital and easily navigate in the ward through remote control. “RML Institute of Medical Sciences has already shown interest in the robots. We are in talks with other hospitals as well for their testing,” he added. Sharma said the team was also working on a robotic arm programmed to work as a human arm to lift and place things. It will be deployed in the hospital initially on a test basis and improved based on feedback. “The Mechatronics team is working round the clock to develop several items which can help corona warriors,” said AKTU vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-developing-robots-to-help-docs-look-after-patients/articleshow/75637691.cms||Mohita Tewari
May 9, 2020||Goa||386 samples test negative for virus, 186 quarantined||PANAJI: On Friday, the state conducted 386 tests for Covid-19, and all samples tested negative. The DHS bulletin said that 181 contacts were placed in facility quarantine and five persons admitted to the isolation ward at GMC. Persons having symptoms of Covid-19 are admitted in isolation ward of a hospital and released after their samples test negative for Covid-19, or once they recover. Since May 1, there has been an increase in persons placed in facility quarantine as people stranded in other parts of the country have started returning home, including those who have second homes in the state and have chosen to travel here as it is a ‘green zone’.  Normally, most remain in quarantine for two to three days until their tests reports are received, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/386-samples-test-negative-for-virus-186-quarantined/articleshow/75638206.cms||---
May 9, 2020||India||LG Polymers fined Rs 50cr for Vizag gas leak by NGT, ministry says firms violated green norms||NEW DELHI: The LG Polymers’ plant in Vishakhapatnam violated green rules as far as its functioning under expanded capacity is concerned, the environment ministry said on Friday after conducting preliminary investigation in Thursday’s gas leak which claimed 11 lives. “The company had applied for post-facto approval of its operation under expanded capacity. Since the clearance is pending, the operation of the plant is certainly a violation,” said a senior ministry official. The application was forwarded to the ministry by the Andhra Pradesh Environment Impact Assessment Authority on March 17. Meanwhile, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday imposed an interim fine of Rs 50 crore on the LG Polymer - the South Korean company which owns the chemical factory in Vizag that faced gas leak accident - and sought response from the Centre and state authorities while noting that the incident appeared to be a result of “failure to comply” with rules and other statutory provisions. Taking up the matter suo-motu, the Tribunal also set up a five-member Committee under former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge, Justice B Seshasayana Reddy, to assess causes of failure and identify persons/authorities responsible for it and fix liability by examining extent of damage to life, public health and environment – including, water, soil, air. The Committee is asked to submit its report before hearing on the matter on May 18. “Leakage of hazardous gas at such a scale adversely affecting public health and environment, clearly attracts the principle of ‘Strict Liability’ against the enterprise engaged in hazardous or inherently dangerous industry,” said a bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel. It said, “Having regard to the prima facie material regarding the extent of damage to life, public health and environment, we direct LG Polymers India Pvt. Limited to forthwith deposit an initial amount of Rs 50 crore, with the District Magistrate, Vishakhapatnam, which will abide by further orders of this Tribunal. The amount is being fixed having regard to the financial worth of the company and the extent of the damage caused.” The Committee is also asked to submit its report on steps to be taken for compensation of victims and restitution of damaged property and environment, and remedial measures to prevent recurrence. The members of the committee include V Rama Chandra Murthy, former Vice Chancellor of Andhra University, Vizag; Pulipati King, Head of Chemical Engineering Department of the Andhra University; CPCB Member Secretary, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology Director, and head of NEERI in Vizag. The application details, submitted to the ministry, shows that the LG Polymers India Pvt. Ltd. had applied for permission to expand its capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD on its existing site of 213 acres. “Extent of violation on the ground will be investigated. The NGT has already constituted a committee to probe the incident as well as sequence of events. Its report will be submitted to the Tribunal,” said the official, adding that the ministry would share all details to it through member secretary of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The district magistrate, Vishakhapatnam, and regional office of the Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board were directed by the Tribunal on Friday to provide logistic support to the Committee to enable its fact-finding and reporting. The ministry is, meanwhile, finalising guidelines for all industrial units in the country to ensure safety while resuming operations during lockdown 3.0 or post-lockdown period. Since many companies resumed their operations after May 3, such guidelines would help them in smooth transition. The New Delhi-based think-tank and advocacy group, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), had on Thursday pitched for such guidelines, saying the Vizag incident “could be just a top of the iceberg”. Referring to the gas leak, it said, “This shows us that there are ticking bombs out there as the lockdown ends and industries start resuming activities. Therefore, an immediate directive must go to all units to ensure safety while resuming operations -- in case the lockdown continues, these safety precautions must not be negated.” Watch Vizag gas leak: NGT issues notice to Centre, LG Polymers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lg-polymers-fined-rs-50cr-for-vizag-gas-leak/articleshow/75638773.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Ambala liquor factories to have flow chart metres||AMBALA: To keep an eye on alcohol production, flow chart metres will be installed in liquor factories of the district, Ambala district excise and taxation controller (DETC) N K Grewal said. He said this will help officials in headquarters and field officers monitor extra neutral alcohol (ENA) production. “Three officers of all factories have been informed that they should follow the instructions issued by the government on a priority basis. Staff has been deployed in distilleries located in the district. The administration will keep a close watch on goods coming out of distilleries,” Grewal said, adding that officials are coordinating with the police department. “The process of regular checking of L1 and L13 godowns has started,” he informed. Grewal said work is being done jointly to monitor four distilleries in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-ambala-liquor-factories-to-have-flow-chart-metres/articleshow/75638777.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 9, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur adds record 59 cases in a day, tally at 79||UDAIPUR: The city that had been in the orange zone for two months saw a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases as 59 people tested positive within 24 hours on Friday. The report issued by the state health department confirmed 59 positive cases, which took the number of total Covid-19 cases in the district to 79. Fifty-five of the fresh 59 cases are from Kanod ki Haveli at Kanji ka Hata alone, while four others have been reported from Nehru Bazaar in Meenapada, Haridasji ki Magri and Neemach Mata at Devali. Majority of these cases have a direct or indirect link to the 30-year-old home guard man's family who were tested positive a day ago. Seven of his family members were found positive on Thursday. This triggered the number of positives in the locality, which is a congested lane with cluster of houses joined together. The medical department held a marathon screening and sent 305 samples for testing once the home guard’s family was confirmed positive. As a part of the containment strategy, the entire walled city area under Surajpole police station has been isolated, as the special focus is on the new identified hotspot at Kanji ka Hata with high concentration of positive cases. The curfew which was imposed in some areas of the Surajpole police station was extended to more parts, including Jogiwada, Meenapada etc, from where new cases were reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-adds-record-59-cases-in-a-day-tally-at-79/articleshow/75637017.cms||---
